02.18.2019	MIAMI – El congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (FL-25) asistió hoy al discurso del presidente Donald Trump sobre la crisis democrática y humanitaria en Florida International University. Díaz-Balart acababa de regresar de un viaje a la frontera venezolana con el senador Marco Rubio y el embajador de Estados Unidos ante la Organización de Estados Americanos, Carlos Trujillo, donde pudo ver de primera mano el trabajo que los Estados Unidos está haciendo para ayudar al pueblo venezolano. La visita del presidente a Miami se produce dos semanas después de que el vicepresidente Michael Pence visitó la Iglesia Doral Jesus Worship Center para hablar en apoyo a la democracia en Venezuela. Diaz-Balart introdujo recientemente una legislación con el congresista Darren Soto para proporcionar TPS a los venezolanos elegibles que residen en los Estados Unidos. También copatrocinó dos proyectos de ley, uno que impediría la exportación al régimen de Maduro de materiales antidisturbios, gases lacrimógenos y otros dispositivos que podrían utilizarse para reprimir aún más a la oposición democrática en Venezuela. El segundo proyecto de ley que copatrocinó requeriría una mayor supervisión e investigación sobre la creciente amenaza rusa en Venezuela. “El presidente Trump ha sido un amigo firme para el pueblo venezolano, y su viaje a Florida International University subraya su compromiso continuo de promover la libertad y la democracia en nuestro hemisferio. Fue el primer líder mundial, entre una coalición en crecimiento, en reconocer al presidente interino constitucional Juan Guaidó, y la administración del presidente Trump ha continuado sus esfuerzos incansables para trabajar por restaurar la democracia en Venezuela. Cada día, la salida de agentes de alto rango revela más grietas en el control del poder del régimen de Maduro. "Desvergonzadamente, Maduro ha enviado a su ejército a bloquear la ayuda humanitaria que necesitan desesperadamente para que no llegue a los enfermos y hambrientos. Él ha oprimido y tiranizado al pueblo venezolano por demasiado tiempo. Sin embargo, a pesar del cruel desprecio del régimen hacia el pueblo venezolano, los Estados Unidos continuará ofreciendo asistencia. Ayer pude presenciar algunos de estos esfuerzos humanitarios de primera mano en Cúcuta, y estoy orgulloso del trabajo que los Estados Unidos, Colombia, las ONG, y otras organizaciones y países están haciendo para ayudar. "Agradezco a la administración del presidente Trump por su firme solidaridad con la gente que busca la libertad en Venezuela, y espero continuar trabajando con la administración y mis colegas para promover la democracia y los derechos humanos en nuestro hemisferio”. ###
02.18.2019	MIAMI ­­– Congressman Mario Díaz-Balart (FL-25), Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL), and United States Ambassador to the Organization of American States Carlos Trujillo this morning returned from a trip to the Venezuelan border near Cúcuta, Colombia. During their visit, they met with democratically elected members of the Venezuelan assembly, met with USAID Administrator Mark Green, visited the USAID facility, and walked the Tienditas Bridge, where the Maduro regime is blocking aid from entering Venezuela. Diaz-Balart repeatedly has demanded that humanitarian aid be provided to the Venezuelan people, and continues to express strong solidarity with their efforts to restore democracy. “I am grateful for the opportunity to travel to the Cúcuta, Colombia with Senator Marco Rubio, OAS Ambassador Carlos Trujillo, and USAID Administrator Mark Green. Along the border with Venezuela, we witnessed the remarkable humanitarian response to the grave crisis in Venezuela as USAID and the State Department, foreign governments, and NGOs have rallied together to support the Venezuelan people with basic necessities. In sharp contrast, the Maduro regime’s shameless and callous disregard for the Venezuelan people was on full display as its military blocked these urgently needed supplies. While the oppression, human rights abuses, and the economic crisis in Venezuela worsen, the United States, humanitarian aid workers, and our allies continue to offer much-needed assistance. “I will continue to work with the Trump administration, Senator Rubio, and others to support the people of Venezuela as they demand free, fair, and multiparty elections. We must ensure that they receive the food and medicines that they so desperately need.” ###
02.18.2019	MIAMI – El congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (FL-25), el senador Marco Rubio (R-FL) y el embajador de Estados Unidos ante la Organización de Estados Americanos, Carlos Trujillo, regresaron esta mañana de un viaje a la frontera con Venezuela cerca de Cúcuta, Colombia. Durante su visita, se reunieron con miembros elegidos democráticamente de la asamblea venezolana, se reunieron con el administrador de USAID, Mark Green, visitaron las instalaciones de USAID, y caminaron por el puente Tienditas, donde el régimen de Maduro está impidiendo que la ayuda entre a Venezuela. Díaz-Balart ha exigido en repetidas ocasiones que se brinde ayuda humanitaria al pueblo venezolano y continúa expresando una gran solidaridad con sus esfuerzos por restaurar la democracia. “Estoy agradecido por la oportunidad de viajar a Cúcuta, Colombia con el senador Marco Rubio, el embajador de la OEA, Carlos Trujillo, y el administrador de USAID, Mark Green. A lo largo de la frontera con Venezuela, fuimos testigos de la notable respuesta humanitaria a la grave crisis en Venezuela cuando USAID y el Departamento de Estado, gobiernos extranjeros y ONG se unieron para apoyar al pueblo venezolano con necesidades básicas. En agudo contraste, el desvergonzado y cruel desprecio del régimen de Maduro por el pueblo venezolano se mostró en su totalidad cuando sus militares bloquearon estos suministros que se necesitaban desesperadamente. Mientras la opresión, los abusos contra los derechos humanos y la crisis económica en Venezuela continúan empeorando, los Estados Unidos, los trabajadores humanitarios, y nuestros aliados continúan ofreciendo asistencia muy necesaria. “Seguiré trabajando con el gobierno del presidente Trump, el senador Rubio y otros para apoyar al pueblo de Venezuela en la demanda de elecciones libres, justas y multipartidistas. Debemos asegurarnos de que reciban los alimentos y las medicinas que tan desesperadamente necesitan”. ###
02.18.2019	MIAMI ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) today joined President Donald Trump at Florida International University as he addressed the democratic and humanitarian crisis in Venezuela. Diaz-Balart had just returned from a trip to the Venezuelan border with Senator Marco Rubio and United States Ambassador to the Organization of American States Carlos Trujillo, where he was able to see firsthand the work the United States is doing to help the Venezuelan people. The President’s visit to Miami comes just two weeks after Vice President Michael Pence visited Iglesia Doral Jesus Worship Center to speak in support of democracy in Venezuela. Diaz-Balart recently introduced legislation with Congressman Darren Soto to provide TPS to eligible Venezuelans residing in the United States. He also co-sponsored two bills, one that would prevent the export to the Maduro regime of riot gear, tear gas, and other devices which could be used to further repress the democratic opposition in Venezuela. The second bill he co-sponsored would require greater oversight and research into the growing Russian threat in Venezuela. “President Trump has been a steadfast friend to the Venezuelan people, and his trip to Florida International University underscores his ongoing commitment to promoting freedom and democracy in our hemisphere. He was the first world leader, among a growing coalition, to recognize the constitutional interim President Juan Guaidó, and the Trump administration has continued its tireless efforts in working to restore democracy in Venezuela. Each day, the departure of high-ranking operatives reveals more cracks in the Maduro regime’s grip on power. “Shamelessly, Maduro has sent his military to block desperately needed humanitarian aid from reaching the sick and hungry. He has oppressed and tyrannized the Venezuelan people for far too long. Yet despite the regime’s callous disregard for the Venezuelan people, the United States will continue to offer assistance. I was able to witness some of these humanitarian efforts firsthand in Cucuta yesterday, and I am proud of the work the United States, Colombia, NGOs, and other organizations and countries are doing to help. I thank the Trump administration for its resolute solidarity with the freedom-seeking people of Venezuela, and look forward to continue working with the administration and my colleagues to promote democracy and human rights in our hemisphere.” ###
02.14.2019	WASHINGTON ­­–­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement after the Committee approved the fiscal year 2019 Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations bill as part of the larger funding package this evening. These funds are in addition to those included in the already enacted Labor-HHS Appropriations bill. “On the anniversary of the Parkland tragedy, I am honored to say we approved additional funding for school safety in tonight’s government funding bill. This legislation includes $100 million for the STOP School Violence Act, of which I was a co-sponsor of and was signed into law last year by President Trump. This grant program is a critical investment for localities who seek to improve their school hardening capabilities. Metal detectors and other deterrents can help prevent another devastating incident like Parkland from happening again. The legislation also ensures school districts and local law enforcement officers have the proper resources to mitigate and respond to emergency and crises situations. “I thank Max Schachter, who tragically lost his son at Parkland, for his ongoing commitment to this issue. Max worked diligently with my staff and I to include language in this funding bill, encouraging schools to use federal grant money for these hardening measures. He has been a leader in finding ways to make our schools safer, and I am proud to continue working with him to obtain these funds.” As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Diaz-Balart worked with his colleagues to secure the following funding in the fiscal year 2019 Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations bill: $100 million for school hardening measures through the STOP School Violence Act $10 million to provide active shooter training for police officers through Police Act Grants $95 million for peer-to-peer mentoring of at-risk youth through Youth Mentoring Grants $20 million to address violent crime problems in local communities through Project Safe Neighborhoods $12 million for police officer safety and wellness programs through the VALOR Initiative $468 million in federal grants to assist state, local, and tribal communities in opioid crisis response $423.5 million to provide states, localities, and tribes with funding to support law enforcement, prosecution and courts, crime prevention, corrections, drug treatment, and other important initiatives through the Byrne Justice Assistance Grants $415 million for Legal Services Partnership, providing access to legal aid to individuals who might not be able to afford it otherwise $22.5 million to continue a Body Worn Camera Partnership with states and localities who purchase the technology for their departments $3.8 billion to assist states and localities with the 2020 Census ###
02.14.2019	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the passage of the remainder of the FY2019 funding bills. Diaz-Balart, who serves as the top Republican on the Committee on House Appropriations Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Subcommittee, put this bill together as Chairman of the Subcommittee last Congress in collaboration with his Democratic counterpart, Congressman David Price. “Last year, our nation saw historic levels of funding to revitalize and repair our nation’s aging infrastructure. This year, we further that investment and build on the progress we made towards improving our roadways, bridges, airports, transit systems, and for the first time, our seaports. As the top Republican of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Subcommittee, I am proud of this legislation, which funds vital infrastructure and housing programs. I am particularly proud of the nearly $300 million we have included specifically to improve our nation’s seaports. Over the past year I heard from so many port authorities in Florida and across the nation on the need for a dedicated port funding pool. For the first time, the legislation delivers just that, and will have a direct benefit on our state, and our local ports. $93 million will go towards the top 15 container ports, which includes PortMiami and Port Everglades, with priority given to projects which address a critical issue facing both ports – fumigation fees. I will continue to be a champion for our ports and look forward to building on this program in the future. “Beyond ports, this bill continues the strong levels of funding for BUILD grants, Capital Investment Grants, and Airports and Highway Grants, allowing localities like those in Collier, Hendry, and Miami-Dade Counties to compete for federal money to upgrade and expand their facilities. In fact, our area has already reaped the benefits of these programs in the previous year, and I am confident we will continue to see investments made in our communities this year. Over $800 million is included for Transit Infrastructure Grants, including $350 million for Bus and Bus Facilities Grants that support our local public bus systems. Again, Miami-Dade County received two grants from this program last year and will hopefully see further dollars in the coming year. “In housing, the bill prioritizes funding for our most vulnerable populations, helping the elderly, disabled individuals, veterans, and those living with HIV/AIDS. Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) and the Home Investment Partnership Program, which allow municipalities to expand access to affordable housing, continue to see strong funding levels. I recognize the importance of ensuring our neediest individuals receive the housing and care they need, and I will continue to support these programs. “In addition to my housing and infrastructure priorities, the legislation also contains a number of items critical to Southern Florida. This funding package includes $37.5 billion to help small business owners through the Small Business Administration’s 7(a) and 504 loan programs, supporting the main street businesses that are the backbone of our communities. Citrus greening continues to be a significant issue for Florida’s iconic crop, and $1.01 billion is included to help combat it and other invasive species that hurt farmers, ranchers, and growers. “The United States also reaffirms its commitment to one of our strongest allies, Israel, by fully funding the Memorandum of Understanding, bolstering its self-defense and security. After the devastating algal blooms that hurt Florida’s water supply and tourism industry, the bill provides robust funding to study these harmful blooms and mitigation efforts to allow for better response, and preparedness against future outbreaks. The bill includes $9 billion for anti-terrorism programs, international trafficking prevention, the Countering Russian Influence Fund, and other key national security efforts. “I congratulate Ranking Member Granger and Chairwoman Lowey for their tireless work on this bill. It is because of their willingness to negotiate in good faith that we were able to reach this bipartisan agreement. I look forward to continue working with them and our Appropriations colleagues as we begin the FY2020 process, to fund critical programs families rely on.” As the top Republican on the House Appropriations Committee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Subcommittee, Diaz-Balart was able to secure the following funding: For the first time ever, a dedicated pot of money specifically for seaports $293 million is provided for infrastructure improvement projects Of this, $93 million is available for the top 15 container ports, which includes PortMiami, Port Everglades, and the Port of Jacksonville Priority is given to infrastructure projects that construct fumigation treatment facilities, which will help ports such as PortMiami $3.25 billion for highway grants which goes directly to the states $900 million for the Department of Transportation’s BUILD grant program helping localities fund infrastructure they might not be able to otherwise without federal dollars $1 billion for NextGen investments to modernize air traffic control $500 million for airport infrastructure grants $255 million for Consolidated Rail Infrastructure and Safety Improvements grants which will improve the safety, efficiency, and reliability of passenger and freight rail systems $700 million for transit infrastructure grants, including $350 million for bus and bus facilities grants $2.55 billion for Capital Investment Grants, which provides grant funding for major transit capital investments that are planned and operated by local communities $3.3 billion for Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) $1.25 billion for the HOME Investment Partnerships Program, which provides incentives for private sector and non-profit development of affordable housing $22.5 billion in public housing vouchers, helping needy populations including the elderly, disabled, and veterans $2.636 billion for Homeless Assistance Grants $393 million for housing for persons living with HIV/AIDS $678 million for Housing for the Elderly $184 million for Housing for Persons with Disabilities As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Diaz-Balart worked with his colleagues to also secure the following funding in the fiscal year 2019 package: Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies $12 million to combat harmful algal blooms, including: $1 million in competitive grants, with encouragement to utilize a portion of these funds to address harmful algal blooms along the Gulf Coast of Florida $5 million within the Coastal Science and Assessment program to determine and mitigate the impact of harmful algal blooms $5 million within EPA to investigate health effects from exposure to harmful algal blooms, and to develop methods to monitor, characterize, and predict blooms for early action $819,000 within the National Water Quality program to monitor, model, and forecast the occurrence of harmful algal blooms and algal toxins in consultation with State, local, and tribal partners $200,000 under the United States Geological Survey to better understand mechanisms that result in toxins being present in harmful algal blooms Language encouraging the EPA to fund research grants that help promote scientific progress towards preventing and controlling harmful algal blooms $54 million expected for the continued restoration of the Everglades $3.2 million for the South Florida program, an increase of $1.5 million Funding for water quality and seagrass monitoring, as well as to monitor coral health Language and funding to support the inclusion of Latino contributions in Smithsonian Institute programs, exhibitions, collections, and public outreach $465 million for the Payment in Lieu of Taxes program, which Collier County is the largest recipient in Florida of $68 million to support critical water infrastructure projects through the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA) Agriculture $1.01 billion for the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Services to combat plant and animal pests and diseases, including citrus greening $3.16 billion for agricultural research $819 million for Natural Resources Conservation Services $3.64 billion for rural development $625 million for infrastructure investments in Rural America $73.477 billion for Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs $418 million for Colombia $528 million for Central America $17.5 under Economic Support Fund for programs to promote democracy and the rule of law in Venezuela $3.3 billion for Israel, fulfilling the U.S. commitment under the Memorandum of Understanding $275 million for the Countering Russian Influence Fund $1.37 billion for the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) Financial Services and General Government $250 million to support financial institutions in low-income communities through the Community Development Financial Institution (CDFI) Fund $3 million for CDFIs to provide technical and financial assistance to individuals with disabilities $37.5 billion to help small business owners through the Small Business Administration’s 7(a) and 504 loan programs $131 million to support entrepreneurs through Small Business Development Centers Homeland Security $4.9 billion for airport security through the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) $14.9 billion for the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) $100 million for new border security technology $77 million for opioid detection equipment to better help CBP officers stop the flow of drugs into our country $16.6 billion for the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) $12 billion for disaster relief $262.5 million for FEMA Flood Hazard Mapping $250 million for pre-disaster mitigation fund ###
02.05.2019	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) announced the winner of the 2018 Congressional App Challenge for Florida’s 25th District is Slimeventure, an app created by Rachel Quijano, a student at Miami Springs Senior High School in Miami Springs, Florida. She described her app as a “2D action-packed platformer” and a “fun and immersive family game that any age could play.” The student created the game using Unity 3D and C# programming. The Congressman also recognized the team whose app received an honorable mention. The winner and runner-up are as follows: 1st Place: “Slimeventure” created by Rachel Quijano from Miami Springs Senior High School (pictured with Congressman Diaz-Balart). Honorable Mention: “Our World” created by Camila Chicaiza, Paola Liuzzi, and Lina Henriquez from Ronald Reagan Senior High School in Doral (pictured with Congressman Diaz-Balart). The Congressional App Challenge is a congressional initiative, managed by the Internet Education Foundation [IEF], a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization. It was first established by the Congressional Internet Caucus in 2014, and Co-Chairs Rep. Bob Goodlatte and Rep. Anna G. Eshoo spearheaded the effort. In 2018, the App Challenge had 222 successful App Challenges hosted by Members of Congress, 5,200 student participants, and more than 1,700 original student-created apps submitted. ###
02.01.2019	DORAL – Today, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) joined Vice President Michael Pence, Governor Ron DeSantis, Senators Marco Rubio and Rick Scott, and Venezuelan Ambassador to the United States Carlos Vecchio at a rally in support of the Venezuelan people at Iglesia Doral Jesus Worship Center. “Now is a pivotal time when we must support the courageous Venezuelan people as they seek to restore freedom and democracy in Venezuela. I was honored to join so many friends and colleagues today to demand liberation of political prisoners, restoration of democracy, and an end to corruption. The Trump administration has shown bold leadership by intensifying pressure on the Maduro regime, and supporting the new, democratically elected interim President. In the last two years, the United States has continued to stand up against the "Troika of Tyranny" and in support of freedom-seeking people who suffer in the grip of totalitarianism. “I am troubled by reports of increased repression in these days of Maduro’s waning influence. These human rights abuses are being documented, and those responsible for human rights abuses will be held accountable for their crimes. It is not too late for those in league with the regime to switch to the right side and stop joining in the oppression of the Venezuelan people.” ###
02.01.2019	DORAL – Hoy, el congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (FL-25) se unió al vicepresidente Michael Pence, al gobernador Ron DeSantis, los senadores Marco Rubio y Rick Scott y el embajador de Venezuela en los Estados Unidos Carlos Vecchio en una reunión en apoyo al pueblo venezolano realizada en la Iglesia Doral Jesús Worship Center. “Ahora es un momento crucial en el que debemos apoyar al valiente pueblo venezolano en su búsqueda de la libertad y la democracia en Venezuela. Hoy tuve el honor de unirme a tantos amigos y colegas para exigir la liberación de los presos políticos, la restauración de la democracia y el fin de la corrupción. La administración del presidente Trump ha demostrado un liderazgo audaz al intensificar la presión sobre el régimen de Maduro y al apoyar al nuevo presidente interino, elegido democráticamente. En los últimos dos años, los Estados Unidos han seguido luchando contra la ‘Troika de la tiranía’ y apoyando a las personas que buscan la libertad y sufren el control del totalitarismo. “Me preocupan los informes sobre el aumento de la represión en estos días de la disminución de la influencia de Maduro. Estos abusos contra los derechos humanos están siendo documentados, y los causantes de los abusos contra los derechos humanos serán responsables de sus delitos. "No es demasiado tarde para los que están aliados con el régimen para cambiar al lado correcto y dejar de unirse a la opresión del pueblo venezolano”. ###
01.30.2019	WASHINGTON – El congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (FL-25) emitió la siguiente declaración luego de que se informó que el liderazgo demócrata no aceptaría un acuerdo del financiamiento gubernamental que incluyera una solución para los DREAMers. “Una vez más, el liderazgo demócrata se niega a abordar el problema inminente que enfrentan los DREAMers. Una y otra vez, los líderes demócratas han rechazado acuerdos o soluciones para los DREAMers. Claro, en el pasado han presentado proyectos de ley que dicen que abordan el problema, pero sabían que había pocas o ninguna posibilidad de convertirse en ley. Ahora, cuando importa y cuando son mayoría, el liderazgo demócrata está desperdiciando este momento histórico. Esta es una oportunidad real para hacer algo. Sin embargo, aquí estamos, viendo cómo el liderazgo demócrata niega a los DREAMers la oportunidad de obtener un estatus legal. “El líder de la minoría republicana, Kevin McCarthy, confirmó que los líderes republicanos podrían apoyar la legislación con un acuerdo para este grupo de jóvenes indocumentados que fueron traídos a los Estados Unidos sin ninguna elección propia. Vamos a hacer esto. Ahora es el momento”. ###
01.30.2019	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after it was reported that Democratic leadership would not accept a funding deal that included a solution for DREAMers. “Once again, Democratic leadership is refusing to address the imminent problem DREAMers face. Time after time, Democratic leaders have rejected deals or solutions for DREAMers. Sure, they have introduced bills in the past they claim address the issue, but they knew there was little to no chance of becoming law. Now, when it matters, and when they are in the majority, Democratic leadership is throwing away this historic moment. This is a real opportunity to get something done, yet here we are, watching Democratic leadership deny DREAMers from a chance at legal status. “House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy confirmed that Republican leaders could support legislation with a deal for this group of young, undocumented people who were brought to the United States at no choice of their own. Let’s get this done. Now is the time.” ###
01.29.2019	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) spoke on the floor of the United States House of Representatives this morning regarding the ongoing democratic and humanitarian crisis in Venezuela. Click the image below to watch the Congressman’s remarks. ###
01.28.2019	WASHINGTON – El congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (FL-25) emitió la siguiente declaración luego que la Administración del presidente Trump anunciara la imposición de sanciones contra el sector petrolero de Venezuela. Después de que el líder de la Asamblea Nacional venezolana, Juan Guaidó, asumiera el papel constitucional de presidente interino de Venezuela, el pueblo venezolano intensificó sus demandas para que Nicolas Maduro dimita. Grupos de derechos humanos informan que Maduro y sus matones son responsables de al menos 29 asesinatos desde que comenzaron las protestas de la semana pasada. “Por mucho tiempo, Maduro y sus matones han saqueado los recursos estatales que le pertenecen al pueblo, corrompiendo a las instituciones gubernamentales y financieras de Venezuela. Los grupos de derechos humanos han denunciado la despiadada censura de los medios de comunicación, los ataques a las instituciones democráticas de Venezuela, los arrestos arbitrarios, y los asesinatos extrajudiciales y la tortura. “Estas sanciones paralizarán el sector petrolero estatal, impidiendo que el régimen siga financiando el terrorismo global, el narcotráfico, y la represión contra su propia gente. El régimen de Chávez-Maduro ha explotado y robado ilegalmente los recursos del país rico en petróleo durante demasiado tiempo, y las sanciones también lo protegerán de un mayor saqueo. Felicito a la Administración del presidente Trump, una vez más, por el audaz liderazgo de hoy con relación al pueblo de Venezuela y la oposición a los opresores del régimen de Maduro. Se está acabando el tiempo para el régimen de Chávez-Maduro, y los causantes de estos crímenes serán responsables. Los que están en el ejército no deben lanzar sus armas contra sus propios compatriotas que simplemente están exigiendo libertad y elecciones reales. “Una abrumadora mayoría de naciones en nuestro hemisferio han reconocido la legitimidad del presidente interino Juan Guaidó y han comenzado a trabajar con él hacia una transición a la democracia. Ahora es el momento para que otros miembros de la comunidad internacional lo apoyen y apoyen la democracia para el pueblo de Venezuela. Con suerte, la pesadilla de Chavez-Maduro está llegando a su fin. Continuaré trabajando con mis colegas y la administración para promover un futuro libre y próspero para el pueblo de Venezuela”. ###
01.28.2019	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the Trump Administration announced it was imposing sanctions against Venezuela’s oil sector. After Venezuela’s National Assembly Leader Juan Guaidó assumed the constitutional role as Venezuela’s interim President, the Venezuelan people intensified their demands for Nicolas Maduro to step down. Human rights groups report that Maduro and his thugs are responsible for at least 29 murders that have occurred since last week’s protests began. "For too long, Maduro and his cronies have plundered state resources that belong to the people, corrupting Venezuela’s governmental and financial institutions. Human rights groups have reported ruthless media censorship, assaults on Venezuela’s democratic institutions, arbitrary arrests, extrajudicial killings, and torture. These sanctions will cripple the state-owned oil sector, preventing the regime from funding global terrorism, narcotrafficking, and repression against its own people. The Chavez-Maduro regime has exploited and illegally stolen the oil-rich country’s resources for far too long, and the sanctions will also protect it from further plundering. I commend the Trump Administration once again for today’s bold leadership in standing with the people of Venezuela and opposing their oppressors of the Maduro regime. Time is running out for the Chavez-Maduro regime, and those responsible for these crimes will be held accountable. Those in the military should not turn their weapons against their own countrymen who are simply demanding freedom and real elections. “An overwhelming majority of nations in our hemisphere have recognized the legitimacy of interim President Juan Guaidó, and have begun working with him toward a transition toward democracy. Now is the time for others in the international community to stand with him and stand with democracy for the people of Venezuela. Hopefully, the Chavez-Maduro nightmare is nearing its end. I will continue to work with my colleagues and the administration to promote a free, prosperous future for the people of Venezuela.” ###
01.23.2019	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after Democratic leadership once again voted on legislation that will not reopen the government, fund federal programs that millions of Americans depend on, pay federal employees, or protect our national security. “Two weeks ago, the House voted on legislation that everyone knew would not reopen the government. Last week, the House voted on legislation that everyone knew would not reopen the government. Now, yet again, the House has voted on legislation that everyone knows will not reopen the government. For three weeks now, I have urged Democratic leadership to stop playing games, come to the table with real solutions, and negotiate in good faith to reopen and fund our government. We must end this shutdown, pay our furloughed employees, and fund the programs which are critical to so many families. Unfortunately, another week has been wasted and we are no closer to a resolution. Democratic leaders refuse to even begin a conversation that would lead to legislation being considered in the Senate, and eventually reaching the President’s desk. I continue to urge my Democratic colleagues to end this charade. Work with House Republicans, the Senate, and this Administration on a path forward. End this government shutdown and get our country back to work. The American people deserve nothing less.” ###
01.23.2019	WASHINGTON – El congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (FL-25) emitió la siguiente declaración luego que el líder de la Asamblea Nacional de Venezuela, Juan Guaidó, se anunciara como el verdadero y legítimo presidente de Venezuela elegido democráticamente, y la Casa Blanca de EEUU lo reconoció como el líder legítimo de Venezuela. “Este es un importante hito para el pueblo venezolano y su búsqueda de la democracia. Felicito a la Administración del presidente Trump por tomar una posición firme y por apoyar las aspiraciones democráticas del pueblo venezolano al reconocer la legítima elección de Juan Guaidó como líder interino de Venezuela. En los últimos dos años, el gobierno del presidente Trump ha impuesto fuertes sanciones a docenas de corruptos aliados del régimen de Maduro, incluyendo aquellos que han participado en abusos contra los derechos humanos, y a Maduro personalmente. Los Estados Unidos ha dejado claro que no tolerará la toma de poder de Maduro y los atroces abusos de su régimen que continúan oprimiendo las aspiraciones democráticas de este país que una vez fue próspero. Con el respaldo de la poderosa oposición de Venezuela, el reconocimiento hoy de un nuevo liderazgo es un avance definitivo. La firme determinación de la oposición en Venezuela, el apoyo progresivo de la comunidad internacional, y el compromiso de los Estados Unidos con la democracia y los derechos humanos en Venezuela han sido decisivos. El régimen de Maduro ha perdido toda legitimidad y apoyo del pueblo venezolano. Espero seguir trabajando con la Administración, mis colegas y los legítimos líderes de Venezuela para lograr un brillante futuro para el pueblo venezolano”. ###
01.23.2019	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after Venezuelan Assembly leader Juan Guaidó, in accordance with the Venezuelan constitution, announced that he would assume the role of Venezuela’s constitutionally legitimate interim President. The United States White House shortly thereafter recognized him as the country’s legitimate leader. “This is a significant milestone for the Venezuelan people and their pursuit for democracy. I commend the Trump administration for taking a strong stand in support of the democratic aspirations of the Venezuelan people by recognizing the legitimacy of Juan Guaidó as the democratically elected interim leader of Venezuela. Over the past two years, the Trump administration has imposed tough sanctions on dozens of the Maduro regime’s corrupt cronies, including those that have participated in human rights abuses, and Maduro personally. The United States has made it clear it will not tolerate Maduro’s power grab and the egregious abuses of his regime that continues to oppress the democratic aspirations of this once prosperous country. Today’s acknowledgment of new leadership, with the backing of Venezuela’s powerful opposition, is a definitive step forward. The steadfast determination of the opposition in Venezuela, the growing support of the international community, and the commitment of the United States to democracy and human rights in Venezuela have been crucial. The Maduro regime has lost all legitimacy and support from the Venezuelan people. I look forward to continue working with the administration, my colleagues, and Venezuela’s legitimate leaders toward a bright future for the Venezuelan people.” ###
01.22.2019	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after he testified before the House Rules Committee on his amendment that includes $5.7 billion in border security, the most recent version of the DREAM bill presented by House Democrats, a permanent solution for Temporary Protected Status (TPS) beneficiaries with status nearing expiration, and $12.7 billion in supplemental disaster relief. “At the Rules Committee this evening, I presented a commonsense solution to end this government shutdown. The amendment I proposed includes funding for border security, provides permanent relief for DREAMers and TPS recipients, and delivers critical dollars to communities impacted by natural disasters. This shutdown is unnecessary and is hurting the thousands of federal employees furloughed and the countless American families who depend on federal programs. I am exceedingly disappointed Democratic leadership has yet again rejected an amendment which would garner bipartisan support and will not have the opportunity to be debated on the House floor. My amendment not only gets us closer to reopening our government, but also protects our national security, addresses vulnerable immigrant communities who seek legal status, and helps those who are rebuilding after Hurricane Michael. Once again, I urge Democratic leadership to consider a real solution to ending the shutdown, whether it be one of my proposals or that of another Member of Congress, that will have a fair chance at Senate consideration and becoming law.” Earlier this month, Diaz-Balart presented four similar amendments that addressed DREAMers, TPS, and border security and would have opened the government. Democratic leadership also rejected those amendments. ###
01.17.2019	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representatives Darren Soto (FL-09) and Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) introduced the Venezuela TPS Act of 2019 (H.R. 549), legislation to allow Venezuelan nationals to become eligible for Temporary Protected Status (TPS) in the United States. The Maduro regime has perpetrated egregious human rights abuses and corrupted Venezuela’s once democratic institutions, leading to an economic, humanitarian, and security crisis and forcing millions of Venezuelans to seek refuge abroad. Under TPS, Venezuelans would be shielded from deportation and granted work authorization, allowing for individuals to pay taxes and contribute to their communities. The Venezuela TPS Act also allows for individuals to travel abroad for emergencies and extenuating circumstances. Stated Rep. Soto: “The now illegitimate Presidency of Nicolás Maduro has only brought suffering and despair to the people of Venezuela. During Maduro’s tyrannical rule, Venezuela’s economy has deteriorated at alarming rates, causing a scarcity of basic foods and medicine in the country. The whole world has witnessed Maduro’s blatant disregard for human rights, including arbitrary arrests, media censorship, imprisonment of the opposition, and the use of lethal force against peaceful protesters. For these reasons, Venezuela should be added as a country designated for TPS as a way to help protect our brothers and sisters escaping Maduro’s terror. I thank my colleague Rep. Diaz-Balart for joining this bipartisan effort to assist the millions of Venezuelans who now call Florida home.” Stated Rep. Diaz-Balart: “For years, the Venezuelan people have suffered under the oppression of the Chavez-Maduro regime. Hyperinflation, drastic shortages, and egregious human rights abuses have forced many Venezuelans into exile, and the conditions in Venezuela remain too perilous for them to return. Political opposition leaders are imprisoned, and some have died under mysterious circumstances. Meanwhile, Maduro’s thugs abduct, detain, and imprison protesters, while his state police and intelligence services use violence, intimidation, and arbitrary arrests to silence them. I am grateful to be able to provide a solution to so many who are escaping Maduro's totalitarian regime. For this reason, I proudly join my Florida colleague Congressman Soto in introducing bipartisan legislation to allow Venezuelan nationals living in the United States to become eligible for Temporary Protected Status (TPS). We must not force Venezuelans who have sought safety in the United States to return to such dangerous conditions.” The Venezuela TPS Act of 2019 would support Venezuelan individuals fleeing their country by: Allowing legal stay in the United States and protection from deportation. Permitting an employment authorization document (EAD). Allowing travel authorization. Designating an 18-month period of automatic eligibility, upon TPS enactment. ###
01.17.2019	Washington, D.C. – Hoy, los Representantes federales estadounidenses Darren Soto (FL-09) y Mario Díaz-Balart (FL-25) introdujeron la Ley de Protección Temporal (TPS) de Venezuela de 2019 (HR 549), una legislación que permite a los ciudadanos venezolanos ser elegibles para el Estado de Protección Temporal en los Estados Unidos. El régimen de Maduro ha perpetrado graves abusos contra los derechos humanos y ha corrompido a las instituciones democráticas de Venezuela, llevando al país a una crisis económica, humanitaria y de seguridad y obligando a millones de venezolanos a buscar refugio en el extranjero. Bajo el TPS los venezolanos serían protegidos de la deportación y se les concedería la autorización de trabajo, lo que les permitiría pagar impuestos y contribuir a sus comunidades. La Ley de TPS de Venezuela también permite que las personas viajen al extranjero por emergencias y bajo circunstancias atenuantes. Dijo Díaz-Balart: “Durante años, el pueblo venezolano ha sufrido bajo la opresión del régimen de Chávez-Maduro. La hiperinflación, la drástica escasez y los graves abusos contra los derechos humanos han obligado a muchos venezolanos a exiliarse, y las condiciones en Venezuela siguen siendo demasiado peligrosas para que regresen. Los líderes de la oposición política son encarcelados, y algunos han muerto en circunstancias misteriosas. Los matones de Maduro secuestran, detienen y encarcelan a los manifestantes, mientras que la policía estatal y los servicios de inteligencia utilizan la violencia, la amenaza y los arrestos arbitrarios para silenciarlos. "Estoy agradecido de poder brindar una solución a tantos que escapan del régimen totalitario de Maduro. Por este motivo, me sumo con orgullo a mi colega de la Florida, el Congresista Soto, en la introducción de una legislación bipartidista para permitir que los ciudadanos venezolanos que viven en los Estados Unidos sean elegibles para el Estatus de Protección Temporal (TPS). No debemos obligar a los venezolanos que han buscado seguridad en los Estados Unidos a regresar a condiciones tan peligrosas.” ###
01.16.2019	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after Democratic leadership used supplemental disaster funding as yet another political stunt. “This legislation is another political game by Democratic leadership that puts critical disaster funding at risk. Hurricane Michael devastated parts of the Sunshine State, and these communities are desperately awaiting federal support to continue rebuilding. This bill has zero chance of either Senate consideration or becoming law, and everyone knows it. We also cannot leave the thousands of federal employees in limbo without a paycheck and financial certainty. I continue to call on Democratic leadership to participate in good faith negotiations with the White House. Bipartisanship is the solution to fund programs that support veterans, house vulnerable populations, and protect our national security. Let’s come together to help disaster-impacted communities, reopen the government, and fix our broken immigration system, including securing our border and providing a solution to DREAMers and TPS beneficiaries.” ###
01.16.2019	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the U.S. Department of State announced that the Secretary determined, for the first time since the Cuban Liberty and Democratic Solidarity (LIBERTAD) Act’s enactment, to extend the statutory extension authority for only 45 days. “The Trump administration’s unprecedented move to shorten the duration of Title III’s statutory suspension authority should serve as a signal to those who continue to break U.S. law by trafficking in confiscated properties. Those whose properties were stolen by the Castro regime have endured the loss for decades, while unscrupulous entities partner with the regime to profit from that theft. “Since 1996, businesses who decided to exploit these confiscated properties with the regime have been on notice that lawsuits to protect the rights of American property holders are inevitable. However, the decision by successive administrations to exercise the statute’s suspension authority may have lulled some into a false sense of impunity. Today’s decision is a firm step in the right direction, and I commend President Trump and Secretary Pompeo for their bold leadership. I look forward to continuing to work with the administration to ensure that those who profit from trafficking in stolen property are held accountable, and that the victims receive the justice which is long overdue.” In the past, the suspension authority has been extended every six months in every administration since President Bill Clinton. ###
01.15.2019	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) was today elected by House Republican Steering Committee to continue his service as the leading Republican on the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Subcommittee. Diaz-Balart served as the Subcommittee’s Chairman since 2015. “I thank Ranking Member Granger and the House Republican Steering Committee and look forward to continuing my work on the House Appropriations Committee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development. Over the last four years, I have enjoyed working with my colleagues to fund critical housing and infrastructure programs, while protecting Americans hard-earned tax dollars and reducing bureaucracy. I am proud of what we have accomplished, including supporting programs that help our nation’s veterans, the elderly, the disabled, and other vulnerable populations. We prioritized programs that provide for the maintenance and upgrade of our nation’s roadways, seaports, transit systems, and airports. I worked to secure funding for programs vital to Southern Florida, such as the Community Development Block Grant, Housing Opportunities for Persons with HIV/AIDS, Homeless Assistance Grants, and many other housing and infrastructure programs. In the last two years, we saw how critical supplemental funding has been towards helping our communities rebuild after devastating hurricanes and wildfires, and I am glad to have done my part by funding the Community Development Block Grant-Disaster Recovery program. These programs continue to make a difference across the United States, including right here at home in the Sunshine State. “I could not be more thrilled to continue working on the T-HUD Subcommittee, and I again thank Ranking Member Granger for this opportunity. I also congratulate my colleague Congressman Price on his Chairmanship of this Subcommittee. He was an excellent partner to work with during my time as Chairman, and I look forward to continue that collaboration in the 116th Congress.” ###
01.11.2019	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), senior member of the House Committee on Appropriations, issued the following statement after House Democratic leadership yet again considered legislation that will not reopen the government and fails the American people. “This week, Democratic leadership yet again chose to politicize the government shutdown and pass the blame. Both the White House and Republicans have made good faith efforts to negotiate legislation that will fund critical programs Americans rely on, as well as secure our border. Yet, Democratic leadership is refusing to negotiate in good faith, putting Americans at risk. Instead of coming to the table to find a solution that will reopen our government, time is being wasted on bills that will not make it to either the Senate floor or the President’s desk. On top of that, these bills totally ignore House priorities and reject a year’s worth of bipartisan, bicameral work on Appropriations bills. I cannot support dead-on-arrival bills that prevent us from reopening the government, when I know there are readily available alternatives, including the four amendments I presented in the Rules Committee this week. “I join House Republicans in calling Democratic leadership to enter bipartisan negotiations so that we can end this unnecessary shutdown and fund programs that help our veterans, maintain our nation’s infrastructure, keep Americans moving through our airports and seaports, and protect our national security.” ###
01.10.2019	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), senior member of the House Committee on Appropriations, issued the following statement after the House passage of the Senate Transportation, Housing and Urban Development funding bill. “I could not support the Senate Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill that does not reflect months of bipartisan work, and the priorities of the House. I am proud of the bill my colleague Rep. Price and I were able to negotiate last year that funded critical programs to rebuild our nation’s infrastructure, house our most vulnerable populations, and reduce bureaucracy. Instead of acting in good faith and working with the House, Democratic leadership is pushing through a bill that does not move us any closer to reopening our government. In our House bill, we funded several essential programs above the Senate level. Programs that go towards housing for disabled individuals, including veterans, mobility vouchers to help families with children, and assistance to those living with HIV/AIDS. The bill today severely undercuts those programs or zeroes them out entirely, putting those with the most need at risk. For the first time, our bill also included funding for ports, a major priority in Florida and across the country. Formula funds that go directly to states to rebuild our aging highways and bridges, also takes a major cut in this bill. It leaves every corner of America without the federal dollars it requires to maintain and upgrade its infrastructure. “I am grateful to my colleague Rep. Price for his work over the last several years and look forward to continue our bipartisanship during his Chairmanship. He has always been available and willing to work with my staff and I, and I am confident we will continue that collaboration. Unfortunately, today’s bill is not reflective of our hard work, nor does it provide for these critical infrastructure and housing programs with the proper levels of funding, so they may best serve our communities. As every member of this House and every journalist who covers Congress plainly knows, this bill will not reopen the government.” ###
01.10.2019	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement in support of Southern Florida's Venezuelan community and all Venezuelans who are organizing around the world today to strongly reject his second "inauguration" after orchestrating another power grab in the most recent election. “I stand in strong solidarity with Southern Florida’s Venezuelan community, and all Venezuelans, in denouncing Maduro’s newest power grab. Maduro shamelessly orchestrated his second ‘election,’ culminating in today’s sham inauguration. The Venezuelan people have roundly condemned the regime’s oppressive tactics, rising inflation, shortages, and human rights abuses. Many leaders around the world have called on Maduro to step down and allow the Venezuelan people to reestablish their democratic institutions. Until then, I will continue to work with my colleagues and the administration to impose tough sanctions and hold the Maduro regime accountable.” ###
01.10.2019	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after introducing, H.R. 377, legislation that would designate the United States Postal Service to create a unique ZIP Code for the Town of Miami Lakes, Florida. In the 114th Congress, Diaz-Balart supported similar legislation that passed the House but was not considered by the Senate. In the 115th Congress, Diaz-Balart again introduced similar bills, one of which passed the House but was also not considered by the Senate. “For nearly a decade, I have been working alongside Mayor Manny Cid and the Town of Miami Lakes to create a unique ZIP Code for the town. Legislation that I introduced in the past two Congresses have overwhelmingly passed in the House, but unfortunately were not even considered in the Senate. The impact a unique ZIP Code would have on Miami Lakes residents cannot be understated. From higher insurance rates to election and census confusion to branding and economic development – lack of a unique ZIP Code has been a costly and burdensome issue for my constituents. That is why I will not relent until Miami Lakes and its residents are granted the relief they need, and why I am introducing similar legislation again this Congress. I will continue to work with my House and Senate colleagues to get this bill to the President’s desk and am hopeful that Mayor Cid and the town will be granted the unique ZIP Code they so desperately need. “I thank Mayor Cid for his continued efforts and engagement on this critical issue. He has been a great partner to work with and continues to be Miami Lakes’ strongest advocate. Whether in D.C. or in Florida, he has spent countless hours presenting the town’s case for a unique ZIP Code and I am grateful for his support. Together, I am confident that we will get this bill signed into law.” ###
01.08.2019	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the President addressed the nation this evening on the topic of border security. “The United States has the responsibility to determine who and what goes through its borders. There are numerous issues that are problematic and remain unsolved. We must modernize our visa system so that American business owners have the power to lawfully hire employees for job vacancies that are hard to fill. Modernizing our visa system also allows us to better track who is traveling through our borders. We must find a solution to the more than 11 million undocumented individuals who are living in the shadows, and that solution must be reasonable and humane. Lastly, a bipartisan solution to immigration reform must bolster the economy and respect the rule of law of this great nation. “Just tonight, I presented four amendments that would address the legal status of DREAMers and TPS beneficiaries, yet Speaker Pelosi was not willing to consider even one of them. I reiterate my commitment to working with any Member of Congress, Republican or Democrat, Representative or Senator, who wants to resolve this issue once and for all.” ###
01.08.2019	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after he testified before the House Rules Committee on his four amendments that include $5.7 billion in border security, the most recent version of the DREAM bill presented by House Democrats, and a permanent solution for Temporary Protected Status (TPS) beneficiaries with status nearing expiration. “Earlier this evening, I presented four amendments to four different bills in the House Rules Committee that would provide funding to secure our border and offer a permanent solution for DREAMers and those with expiring Temporary Protected Status (TPS). Democratic leadership is so focused on political gimmickry, they refused to even allow consideration of amendments that would reopen the government and resolve an issue they claim is one of their top priorities. Just last year, Speaker Pelosi spent eight hours on the House floor, demanding a vote on a DREAMer bill. Yet, here I am, giving her not one, not two, not three, but FOUR opportunities to help DREAMers, and she is handily rejecting them all. Sadly, this is not the first time the rhetoric of Democratic leadership does not align with their actions. “Every day that passes, this shutdown becomes more damaging, hurting hundreds of thousands of federal workers, as well as Americans across the country that rely on government programs affected by the lapse in funding. Speaker Pelosi: let’s put aside the political games, reopen the government, secure our border, and give permanent, legal status to DREAMers and TPS beneficiaries.” ###
01.08.2019	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the Trump administration today issued sanctions against Venezuelan individuals and companies who were involved in an intricate corruption scheme, garnering more than $2.4 billion in stolen funds. Over the last two years, President Trump has issued several rounds of sanctions against members of Maduro’s regime who have contributed to oppression, corruption, and human rights abuses in the country. “I commend the Trump administration for imposing tough sanctions on seven individuals and twenty-three entities involved in widespread corruption in Venezuela. “According to the U.S. Department of the Treasury, today’s sanctions targeted a corruption and bribery scheme that resulted in the illicit taking of more than $2.4 billion in wealth that belonged to the Venezuelan people. As the U.S. Treasury Department revealed, the Venezuelan Office of the National Treasury (ONT) has been plagued by corruption from its top officials through currency manipulation and bribery for years. It is shameful that while the Venezuelan people are suffering under crushing oppression, a cratering economy, and scarcity, that the Maduro regime continues to plunder the people’s resources. I will continue to work with my colleagues and the administration to ensure that those found responsible for corruption, human rights abuses, and denigrating Venezuela’s once democratic institutions will be held accountable for their crimes.” ###
12.20.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after participating in the bill signing of H.R. 1918, the Nicaraguan Investment and Conditionality Act (NICA). Diaz-Balart, an original co-sponsor of the legislation, has ardently supported sanctions against members of Daniel Ortega's regime. “After swift passage in Congress of the NICA Act and its signing into law, the United States once again stands in strong solidarity with those seeking freedom from tyranny. This bill provides the President with additional authority to impose tough sanctions on operatives of the Ortega regime, and cuts off resources to the regime as well as providing sanctions against countries that assist it. Since April, the people of Nicaragua have taken to the streets to denounce the oppression and violence carried out by Ortega and his thugs. This important legislation supports the Nicaraguan people in their demands for rule of law, human rights, and free, fair elections by denying resources to their oppressors. “I am proud to stand with Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen as the President signs the NICA Act into law. I commend her leadership on this crucial legislation, and so many other bills and issues that she has championed during her three decades in Congress. She leaves behind a remarkable legacy of tireless advocacy, trailblazing leadership, and commitment to our Southern Florida community. She has a long record of standing up for freedom and democracy in the world's most oppressed countries. I am profoundly grateful to have worked with her on so many issues that are close to both of our hearts. She will be sorely missed in the halls of the United States Congress.” ###
12.06.2018	MIAMI ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, today announced that Miami-Dade County was awarded a $9.5 million U.S. Department of Transportation BUILD grant. “As House Appropriations Transportation Subcommittee Chairman, I am grateful to be in a position to bring much-needed dollars home. For years, I have told the County that I am willing and able to help fund their transit needs, once a viable plan had been submitted. To their credit the County has finally taken real, tangible steps forward with the SMART Plan over the last several months, and I commend their progress. As the County continues to work with DOT, specifically the Federal Transit Administration, on the project development phase of the South Corridor Rapid Transit Project, I stand ready to assist in any way possible. “True to my word, in my working with the Administration and with the County’s application moving forward at DOT, here is the first installment of federal dollars to compliment the implementation of the SMART Plan. The BUILD grant for Miami-Dade County will help support the continued growth and expansion of the South-Dade Transitway corridor. Specifically, the grant will help increase capacity at two park-and-ride facilities along the corridor, directly supporting the County TPO’s vote to move toward bus-rapid transit. Expanding transit in our community is critical to alleviating the traffic and gridlock that we face daily, and I am grateful for these much-needed dollars. “I thank Secretary Chao for continuing to invest in our community’s transportation sector, and for providing the County with opportunities to improve and upgrade our infrastructure. I look forward to continue working with her to expand Southern Florida’s transit systems and will keep fighting for the funds necessary to do so.” As House Appropriations Transportation Subcommittee Chairman, Diaz-Balart has worked with the Administration and Secretary Chao to deliver significant federal funding home to Southern Florida, including: $11 million to Miami-Dade County through the Federal Transit Administration’s Bus and Bus Facilities grant program $11 million to Miami International Airport for equipment acquisition and the rehabilitation and expansion of the airport’s apron $769,000 to LaBelle Municipal Airport to rehabilitate the airport’s apron $715,000 to Miami-based shipyard Glasstech Inc. through the Maritime Administration’s Small Shipyard grant program $7 million to PortMiami through the Department of Transportation’s Infrastructure for Rebuilding America (INFRA) grant program $3.6 million to Miami-Dade County through the Competitive Bus and Bus Facilities grant program $13 million for Immokalee’s Complete Streets project $31.6 million to the South Florida Regional Transportation Authority (SFRTA) for Miami-Dade, Broward, and Palm Beach counties, which are serviced by Tri-Rail, through Positive Train Control (PTC) grants ###
11.30.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Representatives Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), and Carlos Curbelo (FL-26) issued the following statement after Cuban health care workers who were part of the “Mais Medicos” program in Brazil filed a lawsuit alleging that the Pan American Health Organization facilitated the human trafficking of thousands of Cuban medical professionals. “For far too long, the brutal regime in Cuba has profited from the human trafficking of medical professionals. Shamefully, reports indicate that rather than protecting the rights of these health workers to humane working conditions, fair wages, and freedom of movement, the Pan American Health Organization instead facilitated the sale of Cuban medical labor to foreign countries such as Brazil. While Cuban health care workers toiled in difficult conditions for paltry salaries, the regime in Cuba profited handsomely. Even worse, the regime sometimes was lauded on the world stage for its trafficking in medical professionals as though it was behaving charitably, rather than perpetrating a lucrative scheme of exploiting its medical professionals, said Diaz-Balart. Diaz-Balart continued: “It takes tremendous courage for those trapped in Cuba’s medical professional exploitation scheme to describe the abuses that they have suffered. I applaud their bravery in bringing these stories to light. Those countries and international organizations that have benefited from, or have facilitated, abusive labor practices must cease doing so until basic labor standards regarding safe working conditions, the prohibition of forced or compulsory labor, and fair remuneration are followed. The abuse and exploitation of Cuba’s medical professionals must end.” “It is important that we pursue justice using all available means for the Cuban doctors to not be exploited. That is why I led and filed along with Mario and my Congressional colleagues, a friend of the court brief that would allow lawsuits against U.S.-based international organizations like PAHO. Cuban doctors and anyone who has been a victim of human trafficking should be able to recover damages from any entity that sponsors or profits from such a terrible practice. As Americans it is our duty to support people’s freedom from this economic slavery and we, in Congress and beyond, will do all that we can to ensure that these medical professionals are treated in a humane and fair manner. Our U.S. laws are clear when it comes to human trafficking and no person or organization is above that law,” said Ros-Lehtinen. “For too long, the Cuban regime has abused and exploited the forced labor of their medical professionals to line their own coffers. I am proud to support these victims of the regime in their quest for justice and fair compensation for their service,” said Curbelo. ###
11.27.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after President Trump signed an Executive Order imposing sanctions “on individuals and entities involved in an array of malign and destabilizing activities in Nicaragua.” For more than 6 months, the people of Nicaragua have protested Daniel Ortega and his regime for its human rights abuses, oppression, and censorship. “I commend President Trump for signing a critically important Executive Order that gives the Department of the Treasury and the Department of State greater authority to block the property of those who engage in human rights abuses, contribute to corruption, and destabilize democratic institutions in Nicaragua. After months of violent oppression, media censorship, and egregious human rights abuses, the Ortega regime and its cronies must be held accountable for their crimes. Today’s Executive Order is an important step in promoting democracy, rule of law, and basic human rights for the people of Nicaragua. “In October, the House passed the Nicaraguan Investment Conditionality (NICA) Act to further tighten sanctions on the Ortega regime. The Senate must act immediately to pass the similar bill, the Nicaragua Human Rights and Anticorruption Act of 2018, which was approved by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, so that we can send additional, tough sanctions authority to the President’s desk. The rapid decline in liberties, human rights, civil society, and basic freedoms in Nicaragua demands swift and decisive action.” ###
11.26.2018	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) honored six local veterans for their service in the United States Armed Forces. The Congressional Veteran Commendation is a nominations-based program designed to recognize the veterans of Florida’s 25th Congressional District. The honorees, listed below, will be interviewed and their wartime recollections will be added to the Veterans History Project, sponsored by the Library of Congress. Staff Sergeant Teela Lynn Brewer – United States Marine Corps, Doral, Florida Staff Sergeant Erica Lauren Florio – United States Air Force, Naples, Florida Captain John R. Fulmer III – United States Marine Corps, Naples, Florida Sergeant Fernando Carlos Senra – United States Army, Miami Lakes, Florida Staff Sergeant Gustavo Adolpho Tovar – United States Army, Doral, Florida Staff Sergeant Richard Lee Wester – United States Marine Corps & United States Air Force, Miami Lakes, Florida ###
11.14.2018	Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the Department of State announced approximately thirty new entities and subentities added to its “Cuba Restricted List.” This comes after National Security Advisor Ambassador John R. Bolton announced further restrictions on the Cuban regime during a speech at the Freedom Tower in Miami on November 1, 2018. “Just as National Security Advisor Ambassador John R. Bolton promised in his speech at the Freedom Tower in Miami earlier this month, the State Department updated its ‘Cuba Restricted List’ to add approximately thirty more entities and subentities associated with the Cuban regime’s military, intelligence, or security services. These restrictions prohibit financial transactions that would channel funds to the regime’s repressive military. “Echoing what President Trump promised in Miami a year ago, Ambassador Bolton said, ‘the United States will not prop up a military monopoly that abuses the citizens of Cuba.’ Ambassador Bolton also said that the President’s security directive of June 2017 ‘was just the beginning of our effort to pressure the Cuban regime.’ “I welcome the Trump administration’s increased sanctions against the Cuban military, and today’s addition of more entities to the Cuba Restricted List. It is crucial that democracy, human rights and liberty remain central to our U.S.-Cuba policy. Tight sanctions must remain in place until all political prisoners are liberated, independent media, political parties, and labor unions are legalized, and free, multiparty elections are scheduled. I look forward to continuing to work with the administration in furthering the cause of freedom for the Cuban people by closing loopholes and ensuring that U.S. dollars do not enable their oppressors.” The updated list of entities may be found here. ###
11.05.2018	MIAMI ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the President announced sanctions on the Iranian regime would be reimposed. This follows the President's August announcement and is another step toward ending the Iran deal. “I strongly commend the President’s decision to reimpose sanctions on the Iranian regime. Today’s sanctions place tough restrictions on Iran’s lucrative oil, financial, and shipping sectors. By restricting these transactions, the Trump administration is cutting off resources that otherwise could be used to fund the oppression of the Iranian people, as well as denying resources that could support anti-American activities and terrorism around the world, such as Iran’s assassination attempts thwarted in France and Denmark. “I applaud efforts to turn back the misguided Iran deal that unleashed billions of dollars to a state sponsor of terror. The United States must continue to stand with those who struggle against tyranny, and apply pressure to the malevolent regimes of Iran, Cuba, Venezuela, Nicaragua, and others that threaten our national security.” ###
11.02.2018	MIAMI ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement regarding the October 2018 jobs report. The U.S. Department of Labor reported the unemployment rate in October was 3.7 percent and the economy added 250,000 jobs. “Our economy continues to grow, giving people across the United States more opportunities to become self-sufficient. Wages and salaries are at their highest in a decade. Unemployment claims are at a 45-year low. Thousands of jobs are added to our job market each month. Not only do these numbers indicate a strong economy, but more importantly, they show that Americans are finding employment and taking home bigger paychecks to provide for themselves and their families. Nearly a year after its passage, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act continues to create jobs across the United States, and I remain committed to supporting policies that bolster the economy and provide solutions for working class Americans.” ###
11.01.2018	MIAMI ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) today welcomed National Security Advisor Ambassador John Bolton to Miami’s Freedom Tower, where Bolton delivered a speech on the administration’s work to advance freedom and democracy in the Western Hemisphere. Bolton described the administration’s expansion of restricted Cuban entities, additional sanctions targeting financial networks that prop up the Maduro regime, and efforts to promote democracy and human rights in Nicaragua. “I was honored to join my colleagues in welcoming National Security Advisor, Ambassador John Bolton, to Miami for an important speech highlighting the administration’s latest efforts to promote democracy in Cuba, Venezuela, and Nicaragua. In the past two years, the Trump administration has tightened sanctions against the brutal dictatorship in Cuba, and today announced expanding the State Department’s Cuba Restricted List to include more entities connected to the Cuban military. Because the Cuban military controls the Cuban economy, including tourism, closing any loopholes in the regulations is essential. In addition, Ambassador Bolton announced that the administration is imposing further sanctions targeting gold and other financial networks that prop up the Maduro regime. The Trump administration, aided by the authority provided by Congress in the Venezuela Defense of Human Rights and Civil Society Act, has imposed sanctions on more than seventy Venezuelan nationals for their roles in perpetrating human rights abuses, engaging in drug trafficking, or contributing to corruption in Venezuela. “For many years, Ambassador Bolton has been a faithful friend to those struggling for freedom from tyranny and has fiercely challenged their oppressors. I look forward to continuing to work with President Trump, Ambassador Bolton, and others in the administration to counter despotism and promote freedom in our hemisphere.” ###
10.29.2018	MIAMI ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the National Retail Federation named him a 2018 “Hero of Main Street” for his support of small business. “Mom-and-pop businesses across Florida’s 25th district are the heart and soul of our local economy. In the last 10 months, we have seen the rolling benefits of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on both small businesses and working-class families. In that same time, Congress has also worked to reduce burdensome regulations that stifle innovation and hurt entrepreneurs’ bottom lines. Receiving this “Hero of Main Street” award is humbling, because our local small business owners contribute so much to our community. I thank the National Retail Federation for this recognition, and I will continue to champion legislation that incentivizes job creation and bolsters the economy.” ###
10.26.2018	MIAMI ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the Bureau of Economic Analysis released its Gross Domestic Product (GDP) report for the third quarter of 2018. The U.S. economy grew at an annual rate of 3.5 percent in the third quarter. “Tax reform’s ongoing positive impact on our economy and job market is great news for the American people. Today’s GDP report continues to lead towards an average 3 percent growth for the year, which is a dramatic improvement after years of a sluggish economy. Our pro-growth agenda is improving lives and expanding opportunity across the country, and I will continue to fight for policies that create more jobs, increase wages, and provide everyone with a fair chance at independence and self-sufficiency.” ###
10.24.2018	MIAMI ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after President Trump signed H.R. 6, the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act, bipartisan and comprehensive legislation that addresses the opioid crisis. “Every day, an average of 115 people across the United States are dying due to opioid-related causes. It does not discriminate against color, age, ethnicity, or socio-economic status and continues to take loved ones away from their families far too soon. Opioids are ravaging our communities, and with the support of the President, Congress is continuing its commitment to address this dangerous epidemic. “I have met with local law enforcement and other first responders, and I understand the difficulties they face as they deal with addiction-related emergencies. This past summer, the House passed over 50 opioid-related bills that work towards prevention, treatment, and enforcement to curb the opioid crisis. As a Member of the Appropriations Committee, I was also pleased to craft and vote for a funding bill that allocates $6.6 billion across several agencies to provide our first responders and those struggling with addiction the support needed from the federal level to combat this crisis. “I am grateful to the President for recognizing the toll that opioids are having in our homes, in our families, and in our daily lives. Let me be clear: the road does not end here. I remain committed to working with my congressional colleagues to do whatever we can to put an end to this tragic epidemic.” ###
10.23.2018	MIAMI ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Founder and Co-Chair of the House Everglades Caucus, issued the following statement after President Trump signed America’s Water and Infrastructure Act of 2018. “The reauthorization of WRDA is a huge step forward for Florida’s ecosystem and water infrastructure. This bill clears the way for addressing the harmful algal blooms that have seriously impacted our state’s waterways and economy. Florida’s businesses, its tourism industry, and its ecosystem continue to suffer because of this toxic substance. I have met with individuals affected by this and seen the impacts to our community firsthand. While this bill authorizes the EAA Storage Reservoir, which will allow for more water to be stored south of Lake Okeechobee, it also authorizes a 5-year harmful algal bloom technology development demonstration. The goal of this program is to identify improved strategies to reduce the occurrence and effects of these harmful algal blooms. Along with funding I have helped secure through Appropriations, this provision will go a long way towards addressing this critical issue. “As I mentioned, this legislation also makes way for the EAA Reservoir, a major priority for me and the state, and a major component of the greater Everglades restoration efforts underway in Florida. It also ensures that progress towards the expedited completion of the Herbert Hoover Dike seamlessly coincides with Lake Okeechobee’s water regulation schedule. I worked tirelessly with my Florida delegation colleagues and leadership to champion the EAA Reservoir in the House, which protects the communities surrounding Lake Okeechobee and the Sunshine State’s coastlines, and I applaud its enactment. “I thank President Trump for his support on this legislation, and I look forward to continue working with him to preserve Florida’s natural treasures and build a more modernized and upgraded infrastructure system.” In addition to working with his colleagues to authorize the EAA Storage Reservoir, Diaz-Balart worked with his colleagues on the Appropriations Committee to secure critical funding for Southern Florida’s ecosystem in the recently passed appropriations minibus, such as $67.5 million for South Florida Ecosystem Restoration (which includes projects from the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Project (CERP)) and $96 million for the Herbert Hoover Dike. These Dike funds, combined with the $514 million Diaz-Balart helped secure this July from the hurricane relief and recovery funding package, are anticipated to complete this much-needed Dike rehabilitation project by 2022-2023. ###
10.19.2018	IMMOKALEE ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) received the “Friend of Farm Bureau” award from the Florida Farm Bureau and the American Farm Bureau Federation for his work to support America’s farmers and ranchers. Diaz-Balart, a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, secured federal funding to help Florida’s agriculture industry recover after the 2017 hurricane season, which devastated farms, groves, and ranches across the state. “I am grateful to the Florida Farm Bureau and the American Farm Bureau Federation for this recognition. Florida's farmers, ranchers, and growers are an important part of both our state economy and culture. As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure that we protect those who put food on the table for millions of Americans and provide them with the resources they need to continue to flourish.”Photos may be attributed to the Office of Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart. ###
10.12.2018	MIAMI ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) joined Congressmen Carlos Curbelo (FL-26) and Al Lawson Jr. (FL-05) as an original cosponsor of the bipartisan Trade Agriculture Improvement Act. The bill would make it easier for our Florida agriculture industry to combat unfair trade practices internationally. Florida Senators Bill Nelson and Marco Rubio have introduced a companion bill in the Senate. “This bipartisan bill will help Florida's farmers, ranchers, and growers remain competitive. Agriculture is one of Florida's leading industries, employing thousands of people and contributing $12.2 billion to our state economy. I am grateful to be working with Reps. Curbelo and Lawson on this legislation that protects our specialty crop growers, and the jobs and economic impact they create in Florida. Our state is home to some of the best produce and livestock, and I am proud to represent and advocate on behalf of these thriving farms, groves, and ranches,” said Diaz-Balart. “Congress and the Administration are well aware that our growers have suffered more than most under the original NAFTA. Years of harm from unfair trading practices such as dumping and subsidies have caused family farms that have operated for generations to close their doors. Without relief, Florida’s specialty crop industry will continue to suffer and shrink. We appreciate the efforts of Congressman Diaz-Balart in joining Reps. Curbelo and Lawson in their strong support of Florida specialty crop growers,” said Mike Stuart, President of the Florida Fruit and Vegetable Association. ###
10.09.2018	MIAMI ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after United Nations Ambassador Nikki Haley announced she would step down from her role at the end of the year. “Ambassador Nikki Haley has demonstrated exceptional leadership at the helm of the U.S. mission in New York. She has been a steadfast advocate for the United States and our values by promoting human rights, democracy, and by standing with those struggling for freedom from tyranny. She brought much needed moral clarity to an institution that sorely lacks it, and stood up for allies such as Israel while condemning brutal regimes in places such as Iran, Cuba, and Venezuela. I thank Ambassador Haley for her courageous advocacy for America and American values, and wish her the best on this new chapter. She has served our country well, and she will be sorely missed.” ###
10.05.2018	MIAMI ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement regarding the September 2018 jobs report. The U.S. Department of Labor reported the unemployment rate in September was 3.7 percent and the economy added 134,000 jobs. “The September jobs report reflects the positive impact of tax reform. Our economy continues to strengthen, creating more jobs that offer individuals the opportunity to become self-reliant and free from dependency. Last week’s passage of Tax 2.0 will permanently lock in these tax cuts that have helped working class families and small business owners alike. I am proud of the results we have achieved to ensure that families are Better Off Now, and I will continue to provide real solutions for Floridians in the 25th District.” ###
09.28.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the House approved the Protecting Family and Small Business Tax Cuts Act, the Family Savings Act, and the American Innovation Act, which are collectively known as Tax Cuts 2.0. “In December, the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) catapulted our economy into a period of impressive and sustained growth. Consumer confidence remains at an 18-year high, business owners are optimistic, and there are over 6 million job openings nationwide. This week, House Republicans are locking that growth into place by passing legislation that will continue to bolster our economy while providing certainty for families and businesses alike. These bills, known collectively as Tax Cuts 2.0, build off the success of the TCJA and will further improve the lives of Americans across the country. “The Protecting Family and Small Business Tax Cuts Act locks in the historic tax cuts for middle-class families and small business owners set in place by the TCJA. Lowering tax rates, maintaining the doubled Child Tax Credit, and decreasing tax rates for Main Street businesses will help our economy continue to flourish while allowing families the opportunity to save more of their hard-earned money. As we have seen in the last 10 months from the passage of the TCJA, a stronger economy leads to lower unemployment rates and unprecedented job openings, providing more Americans with the freedom to become financially independent and lift themselves out of poverty. “The Family Savings Act helps families plan for the future, giving them the resources to save their money for life's most precious moments. It creates flexibility in new and existing savings accounts so that one can decide what's most important to them, and when. Whether it be the arrival of your youngest child or the decision to start working towards paying off your student debt, this legislation allows you to decide how to manage your savings. “The American Innovation Act supports start-up owners as they seek to build their companies. Entrepreneurs are the engine of our local economy and we must help them navigate through the bureaucratic red tape many face in the beginning phases. By allowing new businesses to write off more of their initial start-up costs, we are providing them with the tools needed to be successful, while giving them the opportunity to quickly contribute towards our communities and the job market. “I am proud to have voted for these bills that will make a positive difference in the lives of families across the 25th District and the United States. I will continue to work with my colleagues on pro-growth, pro-American policies that offer real solutions for working class people.” ###
09.28.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the House approved comprehensive legislation that continues to address the opioids crisis. The House has passed over 50 opioid-related bills in the 115th Congress. “Recognizing the devastating impact that opioid abuse has had on our nation and our state, earlier this year I met with local law enforcement officers and other first responders to discuss the effects on our district. In 2016, an estimated 4,728 Floridians succumbed due to drug overdose, and across our country, currently an average of 115 people a day are dying due to opioid-related causes. Federal assistance and funding is necessary to combat this deadly epidemic. That is why earlier this week, I was proud to support a spending bill for Fiscal Year 2019 that will provide over $6.6 billion through different agencies within the Department of Health and Human Services to fight this addiction nationwide. While funding is critical, we also know that it is not enough. That is why this summer the House passed over 50 opioid-related bills aimed at protecting our communities, providing treatment and recovery assistance, fighting the importation of fentanyl, and preventing addiction by encouraging alternatives to pain management. This bill is a culmination of this effort and contains many policies previously agreed upon on the House floor. Families are being torn apart by this tragic public health crisis, and with the passage of this package, Congress is stepping up to curb the influx of illegal drugs entering our borders, help medical professionals properly treat opioid patients, and give local law enforcement better resources as they face this growing epidemic. I thank Speaker Ryan and Chairman Walden for their ongoing leadership on this issue, and I will continue to work with them to do our part in keeping these drugs out of our communities.” ###
09.27.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, issued the following statement after the passage of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Reauthorization, which included language that would prevent the Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA) from deobligating funds it awarded to the City of Hialeah over a decade ago. “In the aftermath of the 2004 and 2005 hurricane seasons, the City of Hialeah was awarded federal dollars from FEMA to help with clean-up and recovery. Years later, FEMA requested these funds to be paid back, after the funds had already been used for the stated disaster needs. This would put an immense burden on the City and its residents. That is why I am glad this legislation includes a provision I have championed, which would prevent FEMA from deobligating these funds. This provision will save Hialeah over $2.6 million, protecting these residents’ hard-earned taxpayer dollars. I am proud to have supported this bill and will continue to fight for my constituents back home. I thank Congresswomen Debbie Wasserman Schultz and Lois Frankel for working with me on this issue, as well as Hialeah Mayor Carlos Hernandez for his tireless dedication to his city. “I congratulate Chairman Shuster on the passage of this five-year FAA reauthorization, and am grateful for his public service. Bill is a dear friend and he will be missed in the halls of Congress.” ###
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the passage of his bill, H.R. 6846. The bill authorizes the United States Postal Service to establish a dedicated ZIP Code for the Town of Miami Lakes. “For nearly a decade, Miami Lakes has been plagued with issues stemming from not having its own ZIP Code. From higher auto insurance rates to causing election confusion, lack of a dedicated ZIP Code has been detrimental to the community. Throughout this ordeal, I have worked alongside Mayor Manny Cid and together we have made it our priority to solve this issue for the residents of Miami Lakes. Last Congress, I passed a designated ZIP Code bill that unfortunately died in the Senate. Today marks the second time I have passed this legislation, and I will not relent until this issue is settled. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to swiftly consider this bill,” said Diaz-Balart. “I particularly want to thank Mayor Manny Cid for his commitment to this issue and appreciate his dedication to the Town of Miami Lakes,” Diaz-Balart continued. “He has been a staunch advocate for the community, and I am honored to work with him. Together, we are bringing home results for Miami Lakes, and I could not have a better partner to achieve this. I will continue to work with him to see this issue through its final resolution. Miami Lakes Mayor Manny Cid stated: “Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart has been our champion in Washington D.C. He continues to deliver for Miami Lakers and today is further proof of his promise that our Town will receive an independent Zip Code.”In 2016, Diaz-Balart was successful in including a provision in H.R. 6303 that would authorize USPS to establish a dedicated ZIP code for Miami Lakes and several other municipalities. After that legislation was approved by the House but did not become law, he introduced legislation in February 2017 to authorize the town’s ZIP code and has continued to be a vocal advocate to his congressional colleagues to resolve this issue. ###
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement after the House approved H.R. 6157, the Department of Defense and Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations and Continuing Appropriations Act. “The legislation funds critical programs that serve our communities and protect our national security. Over the last several months, I am humbled to have worked with my Southern Florida colleague, Rep. Ted Deutch, and Max Schachter, who tragically lost his son in Parkland. Together, I am proud that we successfully included $1.47 billion for mental health, training, and school safety in this bill. It provides educational and medical professionals with the proper tools to protect our children in the classroom, while ensuring access to vital mental health resources. “The bill also fully funds the Department of Defense, so that we may continue to rebuild and improve our military might. It funds $148 billion for new equipment purchases and modernization, giving our troops the latest technology on the frontlines. The bill provides $606.5 billion to support base operations and a 2.6% pay raise for our troops, including those stationed at U.S. Southern Command and Homestead Air Reserve Base. I am proud to be a steadfast advocate for our men and women in uniform and will continue to fight for them as fight for our freedom. “I congratulate Speaker Ryan, Chairman Frelinghuysen, Subcommittee Chairwoman Granger, and Subcommittee Chairman Cole for their victory on this bill and a path towards returning to regular order. I look forward to continuing working with them and our Appropriations colleagues to quickly consider the remainder of our funding bills.” As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Diaz-Balart worked with his colleagues to secure the following funding the Department of Defense and Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations and Continuing Appropriations Act: $1.4 billion for mental health, training, and school safety, including: $1.17 billion for school hardening measures through the Student Support and Academic Enrichment (SSAE) State Grants $71 million for Project AWARE grants, which promote youth mental health and connect them to school-age services $5.74 billion for the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Administration (SAMHSA) $10.06 billion for early childhood education in low-income and rural areas through Head Start $1.5 billion for State Targeted Response to the Opioid Crisis $50 million for Infectious Disease Rapid Response Reserve Fund $39.08 billion for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) $6,195 in maximum award of Pell grants for students $3.69 billion for Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program, to help low-income families with energy costs $2.31 billion for Ryan White HIV/AIDS program $675 million for Public Health Emergency Preparedness Cooperative Agreement Program $40 million for Epidemiology and Laboratory Capacity $1.90 billion for Refugee and Entrant Assistance $677.7 million for Title V Maternal and Child Health Services Block Grant $176 million for Polio Eradication $606.5 billion in military spending to continue to rebuild our military $30 million for Spinal Cord Injury Research Program, to further research at centers like The Miami Project to Cure Paralysis 2.6% pay raise for the troops Adds 16,400 active duty, guard, and reserve troops to military-end strength $606.5 billion to support baseline operations, including those at U.S. Southern Command and Homestead Air Reserve Base $67.9 billion to continue Overseas Contingency Operations and Global War on Terrorism efforts $148 billion for new equipment purchases and modernization including: $24.2 billion for 13 more ships for the Navy including destroyers and submarines, to continue our path to the optimal 355-ship Navy Over $20 billion for aircraft across the Department of Defense 93 F-35 fighters for the Air Force, in addition to a host of other support aircraft including surveillance and tankers $100 million for initial procurement of a Light Attack aircraft to augment our counterterrorism operations and increase our compatibility with allies $1.5 billion in upgrades to the Army’s Abrams tanks $96.1 billion for research and development of cutting-edge technologies, which will result in the new B-21 bomber, updated ballistic missile systems and continued progress in our space launch program $881 million to support the military’s drug interdiction and counter-drug activities Much-needed military support to allies and partners including Israel ($500 million) and Ukraine ($250 million) ###
09.25.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the Trump Administration announced sanctions targeted at members of Venezuelan Dictator Nicolas Maduro’s inner circle, including his wife Cilia Adela Flores, Delcy Rodriguez, and a network supporting Rafael Sarria, a front man for Diosdado Cabello. The administration has issued several rounds of sanctions against Venezuelan regime operatives. “I commend the administration for today’s imposition of additional tough sanctions targeting Maduro’s inner circle, including his wife, Delcy Rodriguez, and a network supporting Rafael Sarria, a front man for Diosdado Cabello. “Those who are responsible for the corruption, human rights abuses, and the crippling of Venezuela’s economy must be held to account. Perpetrators are on notice that their properties will be blocked, and that the United States will not stand by as Maduro’s cronies enrich themselves at the expense of the Venezuelan people. “The United States must continue to do all it can to continue to identity perpetrators and their front men and prohibit their use of the U.S. financial systems. To date, the administration has sanctioned more than fifty individuals, including Maduro himself. While the Venezuelan people suffer extreme hardship, oppression, and brutal assaults on the country’s democratic institutions, the United States stands with the longsuffering Venezuelan people by holding their oppressors accountable.” ###
09.21.2018	MIAMI ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, announced Miami-Dade County would receive an $11 million grant from the Federal Transit Administration’s Bus and Bus Facilities grant program. Diaz-Balart’s subcommittee funds this grant program and brought $400 million worth of new funding in his fiscal year 2018 bill. “I am thrilled to announce yet another grant that will upgrade Miami-Dade County’s aging bus fleet. After delivering $3.6 million earlier this year to upgrade the County’s buses, this additional $11 million will further the County’s goal of modernizing their transit systems. Many buses in the current fleet are older and run on diesel, a costly and inefficient gas. Upgrading these buses to compressed natural gas (CNG) will allow the County’s fleet to be cleaner and become more energy efficient. I know the importance of these grants for localities, such as Miami-Dade, that seek to expand access to transit, and I am glad to have been able to allocate $400 million towards this program in my fiscal year 2018 bill. I thank Secretary Chao for her ongoing effort to invest in Southern Florida, and I look forward to continue working with her to modernize and expand our community’s transit systems.” ###
09.20.2018	MIAMI ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), a member of the House Specialty Crops Caucus, issued the following statement after the U.S. Department of Agriculture announced Florida was a recipient of $4.35 million through its Specialty Crop Block Grant program. This program aims to enhance the competitiveness of specialty crops through work such as research and agricultural extension activities. “Florida's agriculture industry was battered during Hurricane Irma last year and continues to rebuild after the storm. It is estimated the Sunshine State's agriculture industry has $2.5 billion in damages as a result of the 2017 hurricane season. Damages to citrus, Florida's iconic crop, total $760 million alone. At a time when the citrus industry continues to combat issues beyond the effects of the storm, such as citrus greening, this money is essential. Beyond citrus, this funding will go a long way towards getting our state’s premier agricultural sector back on its feet. I thank Secretary Perdue for recognizing the hard work of our farmers, ranchers, and growers, and I look forward to continue working with him to support them on their road to recovery.”USDA’s Specialty Crop Block Grant program is funded through the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture. Diaz-Balart, who is a senior member of the House Committee on Appropriations, has voted to support Florida’s farmers, ranchers, and growers since he joined the Committee in 2012. ###
09.13.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), senior member of the House Committee on Appropriations and Founder and Co-Chair of the House Everglades Caucus, issued the following statement after the passage of America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018 and the fiscal year 2019 Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act. America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018 is a reauthorization of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA). “Today, Congress took another step forward in continued Everglades restoration and protection from flooding and harmful algal blooms in the communities surrounding Lake Okeechobee. The America’s Water Infrastructure Act, which authorizes the construction of the EAA Storage Reservoir, is a much-needed solution as Lake Okeechobee and Southern Florida's coasts continue to suffer from algal bloom. The EAA Storage Reservoir has been a top priority for Florida, and I am glad we could work together with our partners at the local and state levels to address the issue in an effective and expedient manner. The bill also includes a provision to ensure Lake Okeechobee's water levels coincide with the expedited completion of the Herbert Hoover Dike, reducing the risk of flooding in the surrounding Hendry County communities. “Similarly, with passage of the Appropriations bill, Southern Florida will continue to see dividends as the bill contains provisions that further the expedited completion of the dike, as well as Everglades restoration. Specifically, it provides the dike with $96 million, $14 million above last year’s level. These funds, combined with the $514 million I helped secure this July from the hurricane relief and recovery funding package, are anticipated to complete this much-needed rehabilitation project by 2022-2023. I look forward to this achievement being reached and am proud to have had a part in securing the necessary funding from Congress. As an Appropriator and Founder and Co-Chair of the House Everglades Caucus, I will continue to be a stalwart advocate for Everglades restoration and ensure the necessary funds are delivered to our state. “I thank Speaker Ryan, Chairman Shuster, Chairman Frelinghuysen, and Subcommittee Chairman Simpson for their support in getting these bills to the floor. By approving these bills, Congress has proven it prioritizes Florida’s waterways and ecosystem.” As a senior member of the House Committee on Appropriations Diaz-Balart was able to secure the following federal dollars: Energy and Water $67.5 million for South Florida Ecosystem Restoration (which includes projects from the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Project (CERP) $96 million for Herbert Hoover Dike $50 million for Donor/Energy transfer ports, such as Port Miami, build needed infrastructure improvements $100 million for Dam Safety and Seepage/Stability Correction Program $150 million for flood and storm damage reduction $40 million for inland waterways $54 million for small, remote, or subsistence navigation $24 million for navigation maintenance Funding to support continued operations, maintenance, and improvements of Florida’s waterways and ports Language ensuring the Herbert Hoover Dike remain eligible for the Dam Safety and Seepage/Stability Correction Program Language clarifying the Army Corps is authorized to cost-share on water quality project features and components Military Construction and Veterans Affairs $86.5 billion (an increase of $5 billion) for the Department of Veterans Affairs funds for new and expanded Mission Act programs, increases in mental health services, modernizing the VA’s health records system, and addressing the claims backlog $10.3 billion to continue rebuilding our military’s infrastructure $1.6 billion for housing to support 1.4 million military families currently served Legislative Branch $456.3 million for the U.S. Capitol Police, to enhance the safety and security of the Capitol and Complex and the visitors, staff, and Members who walk the halls of Congress every day For the first time, the legislation also dedicates up to $20,000 per Member office for paid internship positions ###
09.12.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA) announced it had awarded funding to the City of Miami Springs through its Public Assistance program. The total cost of the debris clean up project is $2.15 million, and through FEMA’s PA program, the agency will reimburse 90%, or $1.93 million.“I am pleased Miami Springs was awarded this money to help with the cost-share of clean up after Hurricane Irma. Irma left behind a trail of debris across the Sunshine State, leaving many localities to bear the expense of getting their roads back to a safe, operational condition. From my meetings with local elected officials throughout the 25th District over the last year, we all agreed that FEMA is taking too long to provide these reimbursements. I am glad to see that FEMA is starting to roll out these payments, and I will continue to pressure the agency to finish reimbursing all affected communities in Southern Florida.” ###
09.12.2018	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement regarding recent terror attacks against American interests in Iraq. Terror groups funded by the Iranian regime reportedly are responsible for these attacks. “As we have seen over the last few days, the terrorist state of Iran has funded proxy groups responsible for the recent, vile attacks on an American consulate and embassy in Iraq. Over the summer, authorities arrested six individuals including one Iranian diplomat for attempting a terrorist attack at a pro-freedom rally in France. The United States must continue tough sanctions against the murderous mullahs in Iran who fund global terrorism, seek nuclear weapons, and brutally oppress their own people. I strongly support the President’s reversal of the flawed Iran deal, including his reinstitution of sanctions. We must continue our efforts to end the Iranian regime’s ability to threaten the United States, destabilize the region, and attack our allies.” ###
09.07.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement regarding the August 2018 jobs report. The U.S. Department of Labor reported the unemployment rate in August was 3.9 percent and the economy added 201,000 jobs. “This morning's announcement signifies continued growth for our nation's economy. Since January 2017, the unemployment rate has decreased to 3.9 percent and job openings have soared. More Americans are obtaining jobs and gaining independence, pushing themselves out of welfare and poverty. I am proud to work with my House Republican colleagues to further a pro-growth agenda that provides access to opportunities for millions of hardworking people across the United States.” ###
09.07.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement regarding the $13.14 million awarded to 40 community health centers in Florida that were impacted by the 2017 hurricane season. The Citrus Health Network, Collier Health Services, and Jessie Trice Community Health System, which all have locations in Florida’s 25th district, each received $337,000 in Capital Assistance for Hurricane Response and Recovery Efforts (CARE) funding through the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS)’ Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA). “These community health centers provide primary care to low-income residents in Florida's 25th District. The centers were given flexibility in how to utilize their funding and were able to continue serving our community in the wake of the 2017 hurricane season. I thank Secretary Azar for recognizing the critical services Citrus Health Network, Collier Health Services, the Jessie Trice Community Health System, and the other 37 deserving community health centers across the Sunshine State that provide care to Floridians.” In the fiscal year 2018 government funding bill, Diaz-Balart worked with his colleagues to secure $1.625 billion dollars to support community health centers. Additionally, he also secured $60 million in the emergency supplemental disaster funding package to support community health centers, which is where the aforementioned award funding is drawn from. ###
09.06.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD), was today named a conferee to the next set of government funding bills by Speaker Paul Ryan. “I am honored to have been named to the Conference Committee on the next set of Appropriations bills. Over the last several months, I have worked diligently with THUD Appropriations Committee Ranking Member Price, my subcommittee, and my Appropriations colleagues to provide the necessary federal dollars to support our nation’s transportation, infrastructure, and housing. These bills fund vital agencies and programs, including continued Everglades restoration projects, citrus disease response and research, and support for community development. I look forward to continue working with my colleagues in the House and Senate to finalize these negotiations.” ###
08.30.2018	MIAMI ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, released the following statement after the Miami-Dade Transportation Planning Organization (TPO) voted to move forward on bus-rapid transit. “Today, Miami-Dade County took the first step of many towards addressing our community's transit needs. For years, I have watched in frustration as concrete solutions were never presented to federal partners and the County was unable to qualify for the billions of dollars I have made available for infrastructure projects around the country. Though this process is far from over, County leadership is finally showing they are serious about building a more modernized and efficient transit system, and I am optimistic this will lead to eligibility for federal support. As Chairman of the House Appropriations Transportation Subcommittee, I have successfully secured record levels of funding for transportation and infrastructure. I remain ready and willing as ever to help however I can to bring these much-needed dollars home to Southern Florida.” As Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, Diaz-Balart has worked tirelessly to support and adequately fund grants the County could be eligible for to expand its transit system. For fiscal year 2018, he secured the following: $1.5 billion for TIGER, a $1 billion increase from the previous year $2.6 billion for Capital Investment Grants, which provide grant funding for major transit capital investments that are planned and operated by local communities , which was a $232 million increase from the previous year $1.5 billion for New Starts Projects $716 million for Core Capacity Projects $401 million for Small Starts Projects $400 million for both Transit Bus and Bus Facility Grants, and Transit State of Good Repair Grants, which was new funding in fiscal year 2018 ###
08.24.2018	MIAMI ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, issued the following statement after the U.S. Department of Transportation issued two grants to Miami International Airport (MIA). MIA was awarded a $308,000 grant for equipment acquisition, as well as an $11 million grant to rehabilitate and expand the airport's apron. “I am pleased the U.S. Department of Transportation continues to invest in Southern Florida's infrastructure. Miami International Airport is one of the world's busiest airports; just in 2017, the airport served 44.1 million passengers and over 413,000 flights. These grants will go a long way in furthering MIA's dedication to both aviation safety and customer service by reducing the risk of incidents and delays. As Chairman of the House Appropriations Transportation Subcommittee, I am a vocal advocate for grants that provide for our local community and its visitors. I am grateful to Secretary Chao for giving MIA, LaBelle Municipal, and other local ports of entry with the resources to efficiently and effectively keep folks moving.” ###
08.23.2018	LABELLE ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, today announced that LaBelle Municipal Airport was awarded a $769,000 U.S. Department of Transportation grant. “As Chairman of the House Appropriations Transportation Subcommittee, I am pleased to announce this Department of Transportation grant that will improve LaBelle Municipal Airport’s infrastructure. The funds will go towards rehabilitating the apron, where passengers and cargo are loaded onto and off planes servicing the airport. This project will provide for a safer and smoother experience for aircraft operators and passengers traveling through LaBelle. I thank Secretary Chao for recognizing the need for this rehabilitation at LaBelle Municipal Airport and I look forward to continue working with her to enhance and update Southern Florida’s ports and transit systems.” ###
08.15.2018	CLEWISTON ­­– Today, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) participated in an on-site briefing and tour of the Herbert Hoover Dike led by the U.S. Army Corps with Congressman Francis Rooney, Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Director Cissy Proctor, and Clewiston Mayor Mali Gardner. Diaz-Balart, Rooney, Proctor, and Gardner received an update on the progress of the Dike’s expedited rehabilitation project. Last month, Diaz-Balart and Rooney announced $514 million in additional funding to support the expedited rehabilitation project. These funds are part of the $141 billion supplemental funding package that Diaz-Balart helped to secure with his Appropriations colleagues after the 2017 hurricane season and wildfires. “As founder and co-chair of the Everglades Caucus and a member of the House Committee on Appropriations, I have worked tirelessly to successfully secure the necessary funding to keep the Dike’s rehabilitation on track. The Dike is critical to the communities that surround Lake Okeechobee as well as to our local ecosystem and expediting its completion has been the number one priority for counties throughout Southern Florida. These additional funds for the Dike will do just that, and I am proud to be here today to see first-hand how the Army Corps will utilize these funds to achieve this. I will continue to work with Congressman Francis Rooney, Congressman Tom Rooney, Senator Marco Rubio, and OMB Director Mick Mulvaney to ensure the expedited rehabilitation has the necessary federal support for its completion. I thank Governor Rick Scott, FL DEO Director Cissy Proctor, Colonel Jason Kirk, and Clewiston Mayor Mali Gardner for their steadfast commitment to the Dike. Local support is critical, and we are fortunate to have them on our side.”Photos should be attributed to the Office of Congressman Diaz-Balart. Diaz-Balart participates in a briefing of the Herbert Hoover Dike’s expedited rehabilitation progress with Army Corps Jacksonville District Commander and District Engineer Colonel Jason Kirk. Diaz-Balart discusses Herbert Hoover Dike funding with Rep. Francis Rooney and Clewiston Mayor Mali Gardner. Diaz-Balart highlights importance of additional funding with Colonel Kirk, Rep. Rooney, Mayor Gardner, and Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Director Cissy Proctor. ###
08.15.2018	CLEWISTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the Hendry County School District was awarded an $196,000 Rural Business Development Grant from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). “I am pleased the Hendry County School District was awarded this USDA grant that will provide new welding equipment for its Workforce Development department. Their welding program, which was created seven years ago, has been a key tool for both individuals seeking specialized training and the small businesses looking to employ workers of that trade. I thank Secretary Perdue for recognizing this need, helping to upgrade the school district’s outdated welding equipment. I look forward to continue supporting these grants that help our community, its entrepreneurs, and Southern Florida's job market.” ###
08.06.2018	MIAMI ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement in response to the Trump administration restoring sanctions on Iran that were lifted by the previous administration in 2015. “Ending sanctions against the terrorist state of Iran was an egregious mistake, and I commend the President for reinstating tough restrictions on trade with that pariah dictatorship. The mullahs in Iran continue to threaten our national security, destabilize its neighbors, and oppress the Iranian people. Additionally, the regime funds terrorist organizations like Hamas and Hezbollah, and poses a grave risk to key allies such as Israel. I will continue to support tough sanctions against the terrorist state of Iran to strengthen our national security and protect our military personnel abroad, and to promote freedom and human rights for the Iranian people.” ###
08.02.2018	MIAMI ­­– Today, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) and U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary Ben Carson were joined by U.S. Interagency Council on Homelessness Executive Director Matthew Doherty, HUD Region IV Administrator Denise Cleveland-Leggett, Miami-Dade Mayor Carlos Gimenez, Miami-Dade County Commissioners Esteban Bovo, Jose “Pepe” Diaz, and Rebeca Sosa, Homeless Trust Chairman Ron Book, and Miami VA Healthcare System Director Paul Russo to announce that Miami-Dade County has effectively ended veteran homelessness. Diaz-Balart, who serves as Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, obtained $19.6 billion in his fiscal year 2018 funding bill to address homelessness across the United States, and increased it to $20.10 billion in his fiscal year 2019 funding bill. “I congratulate Miami-Dade County on this immense achievement and am proud to join them to recognize veteran homelessness reaching functional zero. Working with local and federal partners, the County has shown that the number of homeless veterans in the community is less than those being permanently housed. Our veterans sacrificed so much to defend our freedom, and we owe it to these brave men and women to help them in their times of need. As Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, I secured $19.6 billion in the 2018 funding bill to fight homelessness, including among our veterans. In the 2019 bill, I increased it to $20.10 billion, with an additional $40 million going directly to housing our nation's veterans. I thank Secretary Carson, Miami-Dade County leadership, and Homeless Trust Chairman Ron Book for their work and leadership on this momentous accomplishment. I cannot think of a better partner to work with on such vital initiatives than Secretary Carson, who recognizes the significant work that organizations like the Homeless Trust perform daily. I am grateful to be in a position to contribute towards this goal and will continue to do my part in Congress to ensure we put an end to veteran homelessness across the country.”Diaz-Balart has long been a champion for the Homeless Trust and its mission. In 2016, the Homeless Trust sought assistance as it lost $5 million in federal funding that supported essential homelessness programs. Diaz-Balart worked with local and federal leaders to find a solution. With Diaz-Balart’s help, Miami-Dade County was the recipient of an Emergency Solutions Grant (ESG) in the amount of $4.092 million, filling the gap for 2017. This ESG funding comes from the Homeless Assistance Grants program, which Diaz-Balart funded at $2.5 billion in the 2018 bill and increased it to $2.6 billion in the 2019 bill. ###
07.29.2018	MIAMI ­­– El congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (FL-25) se unió a los representantes Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), Albio Sires (NJ-08), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), Carlos Curbelo (FL-26), Norma Torres (CA-35), y Adam Schiff (CA-28) para enviar una carta bipartidista al presidente Trump solicitando que la administración reconsidere su decisión de dar por terminado el Estatus de Protección Temporal (TPS) para ciudadanos nicaragüenses que residen en los Estados Unidos. “La situación en Nicaragua sigue deteriorándose a manos del régimen de Ortega. Los paramilitares han reprimido brutalmente a estudiantes inocentes por exigir elecciones libres, justas y democráticas. Se informa que más de 350 personas han muerto y muchas más han resultado heridas. Vuelvo a pedir a la administración de Trump que reconsidere su decisión de retirar la designación de TPS para los nicaragüenses. En este momento tan peligroso, es necesario que continuemos ofreciendo refugio a los nicaragüenses que ya viven en Estados Unidos, ante la escalada de violencia en Nicaragua y el gran peligro que correrían al volver”. ###
07.29.2018	MIAMI ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) joined Representatives Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), Albio Sires (NJ-08), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), Carlos Curbelo (FL-26), Norma Torres (CA-35), and Adam Schiff (CA-28) in a bipartisan letter to President Trump asking the administration to reconsider its decision to terminate Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Nicaraguan nationals residing in the United States. “The situation in Nicaragua continues to deteriorate at the hands of the Ortega regime. Ortega's paramilitaries have increasingly brutalized many innocent students while they demand free, fair and democratic elections. Over 350 people are reported dead, many more injured. I again call on the Trump Administration to reconsider its decision to terminate TPS designation for Nicaraguan nationals living in the United States. At this perilous time, it is imperative we continue to offer Nicaraguans already living in the U.S. a necessary safe haven from the violence and oppression in Nicaragua today.” ###
07.27.2018	MIAMI ­­– Earlier this week, the House Committee on Appropriations approved the fiscal year 2019 Department of Homeland Security bill. It included an amendment that would “prohibit funding for the removal of noncitizens who are DACA recipients.” Although the amendment was adopted by voice vote, the Committee’s 22 Democrats voted against the final bill. Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement. “Once again, Democrats have chosen to put politics before the needs of DACA recipients. In the Department of Homeland Security bill that was passed by the Appropriations Committee, an amendment was included that would prohibit funds from being used to remove noncitizen DACA recipients. I’ve said it many times and I’ll say it again: let’s put aside the politics and work on bipartisan solutions that will give DREAMers the certainty they deserve, once and for all.” ###
07.27.2018	MIAMI ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), senior member of the House Budget and Appropriations Committees, released the following statement after the Bureau of Economic Analysis released its Gross Domestic Product (GDP) report for the second quarter of 2018. The U.S. economy grew at an annual rate of 4.1 percent in the second quarter. “The economy’s second quarter growth is a strong indicator of the continued impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Because of tax reform, employers can invest in their employees and grow their businesses. The American job market has over 6 million job openings, and in turn, we continue to see a steady drop in jobless claims as more people join the workforce. I’m proud to join my House Republican colleagues in championing pro-growth, pro-American policies for families across the United States.” ###
07.26.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart, Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (FL-25), released the following statement announcing a $715,000 Small Shipyard Grant under the Department of Transportation’s Maritime Administration (MARAD) to Miami-based shipyard Glasstech Inc. This is the first time a Southern Florida shipyard has received an award from the program, which began in 2008. As Chairman of the House THUD Appropriations Committee, Diaz-Balart is responsible for funding the Assistance to Small Shipyards program, which helps modernize and upgrade shipyards across the United States. In turn, this leads to more jobs and a bigger impact on the local economy.“On Friday, I was pleased to join Glasstech's leadership and employees to announce the company was awarded a grant for $715,000 under MARAD. In my transportation and housing bill for fiscal year 2019, I funded the grant program that supports small shipyards like Glasstech at $20 million. I know how important these grants are to family-owned businesses, and these dollars will go a long way in helping them upgrade their capacity, allowing for bigger vessels to be serviced,” said Diaz-Balart. “I'm glad to be in a unique opportunity to help small and mid-sized businesses across the country, especially those right here in Florida's 25th District. I thank Secretary Chao for her willingness to work with me to ensure that we are prioritizing the needs of our communities and entrepreneurs and bolstering our local economy,” Diaz-Balart continued. "On behalf of our dedicated employees, we are grateful for the strong Congressional support from Rep. Diaz-Balart, as well as the rest of the delegation on this project," said Glasstech Inc. President Nelson Fernandez, Jr. "This grant will help modernize Glasstech's Miami River shipyard facility and allow us to serve more of the region's maritime community, both domestic and foreign, by providing competitive vessel repair services."In the fiscal year 2018 bill, Diaz-Balart increased the Assistance to Small Shipyards program set aside by $10 million to $20 million, and funded it at the same level in the fiscal year 2019 bill.Photo attribution: The Office of Rep. Diaz-BalartPhoto attribution: The Office of Rep. Diaz-BalartPhoto attribution: The Office of Rep. Diaz-Balart ###
07.25.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the House passed H. Res. 981, which condemns the violence, persecution, intimidation, and murders committed by the Government of Nicaragua against its citizens. Diaz-Balart joined 10 bipartisan colleagues in co-sponsoring this resolution.“Ortega and his thugs must be held accountable for their reprehensible actions against the Nicaraguan people who suffer under escalating violence, crime, and repression. Human rights groups estimate that more than 300 innocent Nicaragüenses have been killed, many of whom are students. Despite Ortega’s protestations to the contrary, the world sees the truth of egregious human rights abuses, oppression, and media censorship occurring in Nicaragua. Ortega, and his thugs, must be held accountable for their crimes.” Diaz-Balart has staunchly opposed the violence in Nicaragua and condemned Ortega’s regime for its actions. On June 5, Diaz-Balart and 11 bipartisan, bicameral Members of Congress sent a letter to President Trump asking him to hold Francisco Lopez and Francisco Diaz accountable under the Global Magnitsky Act for their involvement in the human rights abuses, corruption, and illicit activities in Nicaragua. ###
07.25.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– El congresista Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) hizo la siguiente declaración después de que la Cámara de Representantes aprobó la resolución H. Res. 981, que condena la violencia, la persecución, la intimidación y los asesinatos cometidos por el régimen de Nicaragua contra sus ciudadanos. Díaz-Balart se unió a diez colegas de ambos partidos para copatrocinar esta resolución. “Ortega y sus matones tienen que ser responsabilizados por su estremecedora brutalidad contra el pueblo nicaragüense, que sufre una escalada de violencia, crimen y represión. Grupos de derechos humanos estiman que más de trescientos inocentes han sido asesinados, muchos de los cuales eran estudiantes. A pesar de los pretextos de Ortega, el mundo ve la verdad sobre sus atrocidades, incluyendo las violaciones de derechos humanos, opresión feroz de la ciudadanía y censura de los medios. Ortega y sus matones son los responsables de estos crímenes”. Díaz-Balart ha condenado firmemente a la violencia en Nicaragua y el régimen de Ortega. El 5 de junio, Díaz-Balart y once miembros de ambos partidos y cámaras del Congreso enviaron una carta al presidente Trump pidiéndole que responsabilizara a Francisco López y Francisco Díaz bajo la ley Global Magnitsky por su participación en violaciones de derechos humanos, corrupción y actividades ilícitas en Nicaragua. ###
07.25.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement after the Committee approved the fiscal year 2019 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations bill. “The Department of Homeland Security Appropriations bill funds important agencies that help keep American citizens, and those traveling through our country, safe. The legislation increases funding for the Transportation Security Administration (TSA), strengthening their security protocol and addressing passenger wait times by adding 240 new carry-on bag screening systems and 50 new canine teams. As we continue to rebuild from Hurricane Irma, critical funding for the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is included to support their ongoing response and recovery efforts. FEMA's flood mapping activities are also funded, which will lead to more accurate maps that communities like Clewiston rely on. The legislation also supports the brave men and women of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), an agency that safeguards our communities, and is responsible for the seizure of illegal narcotics that drug traffickers attempt to infiltrate our borders with, keeping these substances out of our neighborhoods and homes. “I congratulate Chairman Frelinghuysen and Subcommittee Chairman Yoder on the passage of this legislation. As we round out the last of our Appropriations mark-ups, I thank Chairman Frelinghuysen for his decades of public service and look forward to continue working with him to get these bills to the floor in regular order.”As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Diaz-Balart worked with his colleagues to secure the following funding in the fiscal year 2019 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations bill: $7.3 billion for the Transportation Security Administration (TSA), including: $218 million for TSA screener training, providing officers with the latest in security and prevention education Providing 240 additional screening machines and 50 canine teams to expedite wait times and processing $17.8 billion for border security operations through Customs and Border Protection (CBP), including: $108 million for opioid detection at international mail and express consignment facilities $11.7 billion for the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), supporting continued disaster response and recovery efforts, including: $262.5 million for FEMA flood mapping activities, which positively impact communities like Clewiston $249 million for pre-disaster mitigation grants $700 million firefighter assistance grants ###
07.19.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement after the House passage of the Interior, Environment, Financial Services, and General Government Appropriations Act of fiscal year 2019. “I am pleased to vote for another two Appropriations bills that continue funding the government in regular order. The Interior Appropriations legislation funds continued restoration of the Everglades, preserving this natural treasure for future generations. As Founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Everglades Caucus, I have fought for adequate funding to support the restoration process, and I believe this year’s funding of $63.83 million is a significant accomplishment. Additionally, it supports the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program, which localities like Collier County rely on to provide emergency and social services to our community. The Financial Services Appropriations legislation boosts our local economy, encouraging job creation and growth. The legislation funds Small Business Development Centers, which provide avenues for growth through training services for business owners. It also offers 7 (a) and 504 loans through the Small Business Administration, giving entrepreneurs better access to capital. “I congratulate Chairman Frelinghuysen and Subcommittee Chairmen Simpson and Graves on the passage of these bills. I am proud of the work we are accomplishing with our colleagues to fund the government in a timely fashion through regular order.”As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Diaz-Balart worked with his colleagues to secure the following funding in the fiscal year 2019 Interior, Environment, Financial Services, and General Government Appropriations Act: $63.834 million for continued restoration of the Everglades $10 million for planning and interagency coordination in support Everglades restoration $157 million for ecosystem programs under the U.S. Geological Survey, including those in the Everglades $500 million for the Payment in Lieu of Taxes program, which Collier County is the largest recipient in Florida of $75 million for the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act Program $3.9 billion for wildland firefighting and prevention $3.25 billion for the National Park Service $3.5 billion for the State and Tribal Assistance Grants account $1.6 billion for the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service $360 million for the Land and Water Conservation Fund $11 million for the Multinational Species Conservation Fund Language supporting the inclusion of Latino contributions in Smithsonian Institute programs, exhibitions, collections, and public outreach $415 million to fight illegal drugs, including the opioid epidemic, through the Office of National Drug Control Policy $280 million is provided for High-Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) like those in Southern Florida, including the recently designated Collier County $737 million to allow the Small Business Administration (SBA) to support our main street businesses $37.5 billion for 7(a) and 504 small business loans $12.3 million for veterans programs $18 million for Women's Business Centers $130 million for Small Business Development Centers $7.2 billion for the operation of federal courts, including those in Southern Florida Two provisions to protect the rights of Americans whose properties were confiscated by the regime in Cuba ###
07.18.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the passage H. Res. 990, a resolution expressing support for Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers (ICE). “Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers risk their lives every day to protect our safety and security. These men and women work diligently to confront dangerous criminals, human traffickers, and terrorists. They seize illegal narcotics, weapons, and explosives that cartels attempt to smuggle into our country, keeping our homes and communities safe. We need to reform our country’s immigration laws, but abolishing ICE and condemning these courageous men and women is not the answer.” ###
07.16.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement regarding U.S.-Russia relations. “As our own intelligence experts and the House Intelligence Committee have asserted, Russia interfered in the United States’ 2016 election just as it meddles in the elections of its neighbors. Throughout the world, Russia is often on the opposite side of U.S. interests in crucial areas such as Ukraine, Syria, and Iran. Under Putin’s charge, Russia has become increasingly undemocratic, expelling pro-democracy NGOs from its territory, suppressing independent media, ignoring human rights, and manifesting a perilous environment for journalists. We must remember that Russia is not an ally of the United States, and that those responsible for attacks on our democratic institutions must be held accountable.” ###
07.13.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– El congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (FL-25) dio a conocer la siguiente declaración en el aniversario 24 del salvaje ataque por la dictadura cubana al remolcador “13 de marzo”. “Hoy, marcamos veinticuatro años desde que el régimen en Cuba atacó brutalmente y asesinó a docenas de hombres, mujeres y niños que intentaban escapar de la isla esclavizada. Mientras sus seres queridos todavía lloran su pérdida, nosotros debemos continuar exigiendo que los autores de la masacre sean llevados ante la justicia por sus crímenes. “Lamentablemente, el pueblo cubano sigue sufriendo a manos del asesino régimen en Cuba. Arrestos arbitrarios, encarcelamientos, golpizas y otras formas de opresión persisten en la isla. Miles han intentado el peligroso viaje a través del estrecho de Florida, eligiendo arriesgarse a perecer en el mar en lugar de languidecer otro día en la tiranía. “Al recordar a las víctimas y rezar por sus seres queridos, también debemos fortalecer nuestra solidaridad con el pueblo cubano que lucha por la libertad para que la dictadura despiadada de Cuba no pueda apagar ninguna otra vida inocente.” ###
07.13.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement twenty-four years after the Cuban dictatorship’s savage attack on the tugboat “13 de Marzo”. “Today, we mark twenty-four years since the regime in Cuba viciously attacked and murdered dozens of men, women, and children attempting to escape their island prison. As their loved ones still mourn their loss, we must continue to demand that the perpetrators of that massacre are held accountable for their crimes. “Sadly, the Cuban people continue to suffer at the hands of the murderous regime in Cuba. Arbitrary arrests, imprisonment, beatings, and other oppression persist on the island. Over the years, thousands have attempted the perilous journey across the Florida straits, choosing to risk perishing at sea rather than languish another day in tyranny. “As we remember the victims and pray for their loved ones, we also must strengthen our solidarity with the Cuban people who struggle for freedom so that no other innocent lives are extinguished by Cuba’s ruthless dictatorship.” ###
07.12.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), a senior member of the House Committee on Appropriations, issued the following statement after the Committee approved the fiscal year 2019 Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations bill. “For the last several months, I've had the distinct honor of working with someone who is turning his grief into advocacy and results. With my Southern Florida colleague Rep. Ted Deutch, we have been working with Max Schachter, who tragically lost his son on February 14 in Parkland. The result of our bipartisan work is $1.2 billion to allow school districts the opportunity to apply for Student Support and Academic Enrichment (SSAE) grants, as well as report language encouraging them to utilize these funds for school safety measures. The legislation also includes significant funding for mental health treatment, giving mental health and medical professionals better resources to assess and care for their patients. I am grateful to both Rep. Deutch and Mr. Schachter for their willingness to work with me on such a critical issue. “I congratulate Chairman Frelinghuysen and Subcommittee Chairman Cole on the Committee approval of this legislation, and I look forward to continue working with them and our Appropriations colleagues to consider all twelve bills in regular order.”As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Diaz-Balart worked with his colleagues to secure the following funding in the fiscal year 2019 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education bill: $1.5 billion for school safety and youth mental health, including: $1.2 billion for school hardening measures through Student Support and Academic Enrichment (SSAE) grants $71 million for Project AWARE grants, which promote youth mental health and connect them to school-age services $3.85 billion to address the growing opioid and heroin crises $38.3 billion to continue research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), including: $2.25 billion for Alzheimer’s disease research $12.6 million for the Gabriella Miller “Kids First” pediatric cancer research initiative $400 million for the Cancer Moonshot research initiative $897 million for senior nutrition programs, including $246 million for the Meals on Wheels program Report language directing Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response (ASPR) to continue to support contracts to develop a Zika vaccine $1 billion for to give localities more resources to fight the opioid epidemic through the State Targeted Response to the Opioid Crisis $300 million for Infectious Disease Rapid Response Reserve Fund, giving the HHS Secretary more flexibility to quickly respond to a pandemic, such as the Zika virus Continued funding to support students who require financial assistance through the Pell Grant program $3.6 billion for Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program $2.3 billion for Ryan White HIV/AIDS program $690 million for the Public Health Emergency Preparedness Cooperative Agreement Program, helping local governments respond to public health emergencies $1.8 billion for Refugee and Entrant Assistance to help those building new lives in the United States after surviving persecution, torture, trauma, and human trafficking $655 million for Title V Maternal and Child Health Services Block Grant, improving access to care for mothers and children, reducing the infant mortality rates, and provide pre- and post-natal care $176 million for polio eradication Click here to read a summary of the bill. ###
07.05.2018	MIAMI ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Everglades Caucus and a senior member of the House Committee on Appropriations, today announced that the Office of Management and Budget would be issuing $514 million to the Herbert Hoover Dike for expedited rehabilitation. These funds are part of the $141 billion supplemental funding package that Diaz-Balart helped to secure with his Appropriations colleagues after the 2017 hurricane season and wildfires. “Since elected to Congress, I have worked with local and state officials to provide the U.S. Army Corps with the necessary resources to keep the rehabilitation of the Herbert Hoover Dike on track. More recently, I have championed expedited repairs of the dike, and as a member of the Appropriations Committee, have fought tirelessly to ensure the Corps is able to do so. This funding, along with anticipated fiscal year 2019 funding and additional money from the State, will finally be enough to complete the dike’s rehabilitation. The completion of the dike is critical to the communities surrounding Lake Okeechobee, as well as part of the broader Everglades restoration efforts taking place in the Sunshine State. I worked with my colleagues to secure federal dollars to help Floridians and other hurricane impacted communities get back on their feet after these storms, and continue necessary projects like the dike’s rehabilitation. I am grateful to be in a unique position to help our community and deliver tangible results and federal dollars to Southern Florida. “I'd like to thank President Trump, OMB Director Mulvaney, Governor Scott, Senator Rubio, Representative Tom Rooney, and Representative Francis Rooney for their efforts and engagement on this issue. I will continue to work with them to ensure the dike has adequate federal funding to complete the rehabilitation.”Photos should be attributed to the Office of Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart. Congressman Diaz-Balart surveys damage at the Herbert Hoover Dike after Hurricane Irma on September 14, 2017. ###
06.28.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, issued the following statement the passage of H.R. 6157, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act of 2019. “I am proud to join my colleagues in voting to support our courageous troops and fiercely protect our national security. The Defense Appropriations bill includes funding to add ships, submarines, and aircraft, strengthening our fleets and military readiness around the world. It also increases funding for base operations, in a continued effort to rebuild our military. Additionally, we fully funded the Defense Health Program, delivering quality care to our troops, military families, and retirees. A 2.6 percent pay increase for our brave servicemen and women is provided in this legislation, the largest pay raise they have received in nine years. “I congratulate Chairman Frelinghuysen and Subcommittee Chairwoman Granger on the passage of this legislation. I look forward to joining them and our Appropriations Committee colleagues in continuing to consider the remainder of our bills on the House floor in regular order.” As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Diaz-Balart worked with his colleagues to secure the following funding in the fiscal year 2019 Defense bill: $674.6 billion in military spending--$19 billion increase from FY18 Omnibus to maintain the upward trend in readiness of our military 2.6% pay raise for the troops Adds 16,400 active duty, guard, and reserve troops to military-end strength $606.5 billion to support base operations, including those at U.S. Southern Command and Homestead Air Reserve Base $68.1 billion to continue Overseas Contingency Operations and Global War on Terrorism efforts Ensures military payments for families of deceased service members cannot be interrupted by future government shutdowns $145.7 billion for new equipment purchases and modernization $22 billion for 12 more ships for the Navy including destroyers and submarines, to continue our path to the optimal 355-ship Navy Aims to redirect the Navy to more evenly divide maintenance and overhaul work on our ships between private and public shipyards Over $37 billion for aircraft Department-wide 93 F-35 fighters for the Air Force, in addition to a host of other support aircraft $40 million for initial procurement of a Light Attack aircraft to augment our counterterrorism operations Upgrades to the Army’s Stryker armored vehicles and Abrams tanks and adds new Bradley fighting vehicles Over $90 billion for research and development, which will result in the new B-21 bomber, updated ballistic missile systems and continued progress in our space launch program $34.4 billion for the Defense Health Program, providing care to our troops, military families, and retirees. Includes $1.4 billion for defense-related medical research, including spinal cord injury, substance abuse disorders and trauma and psychological health $854 million to support the military’s drug interdiction and counter-drug activities Much-needed military support to allies and partners including Israel ($500 million) and Ukraine ($250 million) ###
06.27.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– El Congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (FL-25) hizo pública la siguiente declaración después de que la Cámara votó sobre H.R. 6136, la Ley de Reforma de Inmigración y Seguridad Fronteriza. “Este proyecto de ley se centra en tres cuestiones claves de nuestro sistema de inmigración que hay que abordar. Legaliza a todos los soñadores elegibles para DACA, no sólo a los beneficiarios actuales, con múltiples vías hacia la ciudadanía. Proporciona una solución legislativa para dejar de separar a los niños menores de sus padres. Por último, incluye medidas de seguridad fronteriza similares a las que estaban incluidas en el proyecto de ley de inmigración de la “Banda de los Ocho” del Senado en 2013. Este proyecto de ley hubiera constituido un paso importante hacia adelante para arreglar nuestro sistema roto de inmigración. El quedarme de brazos cruzados no era una opción para mí y nunca lo será. Continuo preparado para negociar con cualquier miembro del Congreso que esté dispuesto a unirse a mí para priorizar los críticamente importantes temas y no enfocarnos en la política mezquina y el partidismo.” ###
06.27.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the House voted on H.R. 6136, the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act. “This bill focuses on three key issues that must be addressed. It legalizes all DACA-eligible dreamers, not just current beneficiaries, with multiple pathways to citizenship. The bill provides a legislative solution to end the separation of minor children from their parents. Lastly, the bill includes border security measures that are similar to those passed in the Senate’s 2013 Gang of Eight immigration bill. This would have been an important step forward to continue our efforts in fixing our broken immigration system. Sitting idly by was, and always has been, out of the question for me. I remain ready to negotiate with any Member of Congress who is willing to join me in prioritizing this issue over petty politics and party.” ###
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) today delivered the following remarks on the House floor during the debate of H.R. 6136, the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act. For over a decade, Diaz-Balart has worked with bicameral, bipartisan colleagues towards a solution to fix our country’s broken immigration system. Click the image below to watch the delivered remarks. As prepared for delivery: “I’ve heard so many interesting words on this debate. The last gentleman, who I respect, said how the Democrats care so much for these individuals. And yet, let's be perfectly clear: they had ample opportunity after ample opportunity to solve the problem. In 2009, they promised that they would do it within 100 days. Then, the president said he would do it. Democrats had 60% of the votes in the Senate. They had huge majorities in the house and they had a bipartisan bill ready to go, and yet they refused to do it. “But this is not a moment to point fingers, as my colleague just spent all of his time doing. This is the moment to find solutions. “If you believe, like I do, that these folks who are here, no fault of their own, should have an opportunity to stay here, to be part of society, to be legalized and to yes, obtain citizenship, it is the best, potentially the last chance for a long time to get that done. This bill does that. If you believe that minors should not be separated from their families, and if you believe that the best way to guarantee that is through legislation, this is the best and potentially last opportunity to get that done, because this bill does that. And if you believe that the United States the obligation to determine who comes in and who leaves, this is then also the best and potentially last shot to get those three things done. “So again, there is a lot of rhetoric. But this bill does three things: it allows dreamers to stay here and allows them to become part of society with pathways to citizenship, it legislatively stops the separation of minors from their parents on the border, and it secures the border. That is what this bill does. Everything else is cheap rhetoric.” ###
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, issued the following statement after the Committee approved the fiscal year 2019 State and Foreign Operations bill. “I am pleased to vote for this legislation that protects our national security interests and supports staunch allies like Israel. It addresses human trafficking by increasing funds to help combat the crime and its perpetrators. As the people of Cuba and Venezuela continue in their struggle for freedom, funds are included to promote democracy, rule of law, and strengthen civil society. Additionally, we continue our rigid standards to ensure Colombia works to diminish coca production, a significant factor in drug trafficking. “I congratulate Chairman Frelinghuysen and Subcommittee Chairman Rogers on the bill’s committee passage, and look forward to working with them and our Appropriations colleagues to get this and our eleven other bills to the floor in regular order.” As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Diaz-Balart worked with his colleagues to secure the following funding in the fiscal year 2019 State and Foreign Operations bill: $3.3 billion for Israel, beginning the first year of the 10-year MOU between the U.S. and Israel $1.6 billion for the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) $1.35 billion for the Global Fund to Fight Aids, Tuberculosis, and Malaria $30 million for Economic Support Funds to help promote democracy and strengthen civil society in Cuba $29 million for Office of Cuba Broadcasting (OCB) $845 million to promote Maternal and Child health $170 million for National Endowment for Democracy $2.4 billion for Democracy Programs $67 million for Programs to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons $8.7 billion for global health programs, including critical funding for global health security and emerging health threats $15 million for programs to promote democracy and the rule of law in Venezuela, same as FY18 $1.43 billion to support counter-narcotics and law enforcement efforts around the world, including in Central America, Colombia, and Mexico $8 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) to support operations and assistance in areas of instability and conflict, such as Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq, and other countries in the Middle East. Click here to read a summary of the bill. ###
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the passage of the 2018 Farm Bill. “Agriculture is crucial to Florida’s economy, and I am proud to vote for the Farm Bill that helps our farmers, ranchers, and growers. This bill includes funding to continue research on citrus greening and other invasive diseases and pests that diminish our state's crop yields. I am also pleased with the initiatives this bill provides to lift people out of dependency and into self-sufficiency and independency. It allows individuals to strengthen their skill sets and work ethic with job training and work requirements, igniting a sense of pride and self-worth. Our unemployment rate continues to dip, but with 6.6 million openings available across the United States, this bill will propel more people into our job market. “I thank Speaker Ryan and Chairman Conway for their leadership on this critical piece of legislation, and I look forward to continue working with them to provide better opportunities for the American people and our ranch and farm families.” ###
06.20.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) today issued the following statement. “It is about time the Administration takes action to address this issue, but more needs to be done. I want to make sure this practice is ended, unequivocally, and I strongly believe we still must take legislative action. I will continue to work urgently with my colleagues to ensure we end the separation of minors from their parents - now.” ###
06.18.2018	MIAMI ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) today issued the following statement. “It is totally unacceptable, for any reason, to purposely separate minor children from their parents. Any and every other option should be implemented in order to not separate minors from their parents, which I believe is unconscionable. We cannot allow for this to continue happening, and it must stop. I continue to work with my colleagues to ensure that the provision included in this week's immigration bill puts an end to this cruel practice.” ###
06.16.2018	MIAMI - El congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (FL-25) hizo la siguiente declaración un año después de que la administración de Trump anunciara que fortalecería las sanciones contra el régimen Castro comunista en Cuba. “Un año después de que el presidente anunciara en Miami que iba a endurecer las sanciones contra el régimen en Cuba, agradezco la meta del presidente de impedir que dólares estadounidenses enriquezcan al brutal régimen que oprime al pueblo cubano. Estos cambios fueron pasos positivos en el sendero apropiado. “Hay más trabajo por hacer. En el Memorando Presidencial de Seguridad Nacional del 16 de junio de 2017 sobre el ‘Fortalecimiento de la política de los Estados Unidos hacia Cuba’, el Presidente indicó que pretende ajustar su política según sea necesario para garantizar que promueva la libertad y la democracia. Como dijo, ‘mi administración continuará evaluando sus políticas para mejorar los derechos humanos, alentar el estado de derecho, fomentar el libre mercado y la libre empresa, y promover la democracia en Cuba. Debemos reducir aún más el acceso del régimen a las instituciones financieras de EE. UU., restringir la importación de alcohol y productos de tabaco, protegerlos derechos de propiedad de los estadounidenses, ampliar la ‘Lista Restringida de Cuba’ para incluir a todas las empresas militares cubanas y aplicar plenamente la prohibición de viajes turísticos. También debemos redoblar nuestros esfuerzos de acercarnos al pueblo cubano con programas pro democracia y transmisiones efectivas a través de Radio y TV Martí. Estos son los próximos pasos cruciales para promover la democracia en Cuba”. “Felicito al presidente por endurecer las sanciones contra el ejército cubano, y sigo comprometido a trabajar con él para implementar plenamente una política que apoye las aspiraciones democráticas del pueblo cubano”. ###
06.16.2018	MIAMI ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement one year after the Trump administration announcement to strengthen sanctions against the regime in Cuba. “One year after the President’s announcement in Miami to strengthen sanctions against the regime in Cuba, I appreciate the President’s commitment to restrict U.S. dollars from enriching the Cuban military and the brutal regime that oppresses the Cuban people. These changes were positive steps in the right direction. “There is more work ahead of us. In the June 16, 2017 National Security Presidential Memorandum on ‘Strengthening the Policy of the United States Toward Cuba,’ the President indicated that he intends to adjust his policy as needed to ensure that it promote freedom and democracy. As he said, ‘[m]y Administration will continue to evaluate its policies so as to improve human rights, encourage the rule of law, foster free markets and free enterprise, and promote democracy in Cuba.’ We must further curtail the regime’s access to U.S. financial institutions, restrict the import of alcohol and tobacco products, protect Americans’ property rights, expand the ‘Cuba Restricted List’ to include all Cuban military-run companies, and fully enforce the ban on tourism travel. We must also strengthen our outreach to the Cuban people through vigorous democracy programming and effectual broadcasts through Radio and TV Marti. These are crucial next steps in furthering the President’s goal of promoting democracy in Cuba.” “I commend the President for strengthening sanctions against the Cuban military, and remain committed to working with him to fully implement a policy that supports the Cuban people in their democratic aspirations.” ###
06.15.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the House concluded votes for the week on a series of bills that address the opioid crisis. “Our country faces a growing opioid crisis, and I was proud to join my colleagues in voting for 38 bills this week that target this public health issue. Every day, 115 Americans succumb to an opioid overdose. It does not see color, age, ethnicity, or socio-economic status. The House continues the work of the 21st Century Cures Act in passing additional legislation this week, and in the coming weeks and months, to curb the deadly impact of opioids on our families. We must continue to work to do what we can as legislators, and as parents, brothers, sisters, and children, to put an end to this dangerous and cruel epidemic. “I thank Speaker Ryan and Chairman Walden for their leadership on this issue, and I urge our Senate colleagues to expeditiously consider these bills.” The House of Representatives considered bills addressing four key areas of the opioid crisis: treatment and recovery, prevention, protecting communities, and fighting fentanyl. A full list of bills considered can be found here. Included in the bills passed this week are: H.R. 5735, the Transitional Housing for Recovery in Viable Environments Demonstration Program Act, which sets aside public housing vouchers to help those in evidence-based treatment programs to get back on their feet with a time-limited voucher. H.R. 5197, the Alternatives to Opioids in the Emergency Department Act, which runs a pilot program to encourage emergency departments and their medical professionals to utilize alternative methods for pain management, limiting the use of opioids and the potential for misuse. H.R. 2851, the Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues Act, which gives the Attorney General more flexibility in issuing the temporary schedule of a synthetic substance when it is similar to an already existing illegal substance. H.R. 5788, the Synthetics Trafficking and Overdose Prevention Act, holds the United States Postal Service accountable and requires the collection of advance electronic data on all international shipments, making it easier for U.S. Customs and Border Patrol agents to target packages for inspection and seizure. ###
06.14.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, issued the following statement after the Committee approved the fiscal year 2019 Defense bill. “We must always ensure the readiness of our military. I am pleased the Defense Appropriations bill includes funding for new equipment purchases and modernization, as well as funding for further research and development, giving our troops access to state-of-the-art technology on the frontlines. It also provides federal dollars to expand our ship and aircraft fleet, better supporting our counterterrorism and defense operations. The bill authorizes a 2.6% pay raise for our troops, a significant sign of support for our brave servicemen and servicewomen and their sacrifice. “I congratulate Chairman Frelinghuysen and Subcommittee Chairwoman Granger on the committee passage of this bill, and look forward to working with them on House passage to provide our troops with the robust resources they need to protect our freedom.” As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Diaz-Balart worked with his colleagues to secure the following funding in the fiscal year 2019 Defense bill: $674.6 billion in military spending--$19 billion increase from FY18 Omnibus to maintain the upward trend in readiness of our military 2.6% pay raise for the troops Adds 15,600 troops to military end strength Ensures military payments for families of deceased service members cannot be interrupted by future government shutdowns $145.7 billion for new equipment purchases and modernization $22 billion for 12 more ships for the Navy including destroyers and submarines, to continue our path to the optimal 355-ship Navy Aims to redirect the Navy to more evenly divide maintenance and overhaul work on our ships between private and public shipyards Over $37 billion for aircraft Department-wide 93 F-35 fighters for the Air Force, in addition to a host of other support aircraft $40 million for initial procurement of a Light Attack aircraft to augment our counterterrorism operations Upgrades to the Army’s Stryker armored vehicles and Abrams tanks and adds new Bradley fighting vehicles Over $90 billion for research and development, which will result in the new B-21 bomber, updated ballistic missile systems and continued progress in our space launch program $1.4 billion for defense-related medical research, including spinal cord injury, substance abuse disorders and trauma and psychological health $854 million to support the military’s drug interdiction and counter-drug activities Much-needed military support to allies and partners including Israel ($500 million) and Ukraine ($250 million) ###
06.14.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, issued the following statement after the U.S. Army Corps released their work plan for fiscal year 2018. “I am pleased with the fiscal year 2018 Army Corps work plan that prioritizes and funds three important projects in Southern Florida. PortMiami is a critical economic engine for our area, and the plan includes substantial funding to begin moving towards expanded shipping channels. Deepening these channels will allow larger ships to service the Port at a higher capacity, bringing revenue and jobs to Southern Florida. Continued Everglades restoration is also funded at $105 million, allowing us to preserve this natural treasure and provide a clean drinking water source for future generations. Additionally, $82 million for the expedited rehabilitation of the Herbert Hoover Dike is included, benefiting the communities that surround Lake Okeechobee. The inclusion of these projects and funding in the work plan is another victory for Southern Florida’s economy and our residents. “I am grateful to Office of Management and Budget Director Mulvaney, Army Corps Chief of Engineers Lieutenant General Semonite, and Army Corps Jacksonville District Commander Colonel Kirk for recognizing the significance of these projects and their impact on the Sunshine State. I look forward to working with them to see through the completion of these projects.” ###
06.14.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, issued the following statement after the Committee approved the fiscal year 2019 Financial Services and General Government bill. “The Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Bill supports our main street small businesses and local communities. I recently helped Collier County receive designation as part of Southern Florida's High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA), which is funded in this bill to assist localities to adequately address drug crimes. Giving Collier County and other local governments the opportunity to partner with state and federal agencies to address drug-related issues will better prepare them to combat drug trafficking and the growing opioid crisis. We also provided funding for Small Business Development Centers, a vital resource for entrepreneurs looking to improve their businesses. By supporting small business, we encourage job creation and growth, bringing more revenue to our local economy. The bill also provides for 7 (a) and 504 loan programs through the Small Business Administration, as well as programs that support veteran and women owned small businesses. These mom and pop businesses are the heart of our local economy, and I am proud to support legislation that will help them thrive in our community.” “I congratulate Chairman Frelinghuysen and Subcommittee Chairman Graves on this legislation, and look forward to supporting it on the House floor to provide more opportunities for Southern Florida’s bustling entrepreneurial economy.” As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Diaz-Balart worked with his colleagues to secure the following funding in the fiscal year 2019 Financial Services and General Government bill: $415 million to fight illegal drugs, including the opioid epidemic, through the Office of National Drug Control Policy $280 million is provided for High-Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) like those in Southern Florida, including the recently designated Collier County $737 million to allow the Small Business Administration (SBA) to support our main street businesses $37.5 billion for 7(a) and 504 small business loans $12.3 million for veterans programs $18 million for Women's Business Centers $130 million for Small Business Development Centers $7.2 billion for the operation of federal courts, including those in Southern Florida Two provisions to protect the rights of Americans whose properties were confiscated by the regime in Cuba ###
06.09.2018	MIAMI ­­– Representatives Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), Albio Sires (NJ-08), and Carlos Curbelo (FL-26) sent a letter to Secretary General Luis Almagro of the Organization of American States, urging him to work with the organization to help restore democracy in Nicaragua and consider invoking Article 19 of the Inter-American Democratic Charter in response to the deteriorating situation in the Central American country. Since protests erupted on April 18, 2018, reports attest that the Ortega regime has used violence, including live ammunition against civilians, to quash dissent. The Nicaraguan Center for Human Rights in Managua reports that more than one hundred people have been killed. Read the letter below. Luis Almagro Lemes Secretary General Organization of American States 1889 F Street NW Washington, D.C. 20006 Dear Secretary General Almagro, We write to express our profound concern regarding the deteriorating situation in Nicaragua, and to request, within all applicable rules and regulations, that you publicly and openly work within the OAS organization to help restore democratic order in Nicaragua. Toward that end, and following the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights report condemning Nicaragua’s increasing repression, we also request that you begin to consider the process of invoking Article 19 of the Inter-American Democratic Charter. According to numerous reports, the Ortega regime’s police and paramilitary operatives have used violence including live ammunition against civilians to quash dissent. There are also allegations of chemicals being used against protesters. The Centro Nicaragüense de los Derechos Humanos has reported that more than one hundred people have been killed since the protests began on April 18, 2018. Over more than eleven years of rule, the Ortega regime has corrupted Nicaragua’s judicial, legislative, military, security, and electoral institutions, filling top positions with Sandinista cronies. Meanwhile, independent media, pro-democracy activists and civil society groups have faced increasingly severe repression. Despite increased demands for free, fair, and multi-party elections, Ortega continues to insist that his wife Rosario Murillo, whom he appointed Vice President in 2016, will assume the presidency in 2021 to continue his corrupt and oppressive regime. Now is a pivotal time for Nicaragua’s future. Despite escalating repression and violence, the Nicaraguan people courageously continue to demand essential liberties and basic human rights. Although we were disappointed to see a weak resolution passed at the OAS on June 5, 2018, we believe that it is not too late for this organization to unequivocally stand with the Nicaraguan people and demonstrate ardent dedication to the democratic principles enshrined in the Inter-American Democratic Charter. You expressed in your May 23, 2018 announcement that, you want three things for Nicaragua: democracy, truth and justice, and the full exercise of human rights in Nicaragua. Since that statement, more protesters have been killed and the Ortega regime has sunk to new lows in repressing dissent. Accordingly, we respectfully urge you to openly and unequivocally condemn the Ortega regime’s human rights abuses in Nicaragua, demand accountability for the murders and other acts of violence against activists, and call for free, fair, and multi-party presidential elections overseen by credible domestic and international electoral observers. We also urge you to begin to consider the process of invoking Article 19 of the Inter-American Democratic Charter because the repression and blatant power grabs in Nicaragua constitute “an unconstitutional interruption of the democratic order or an unconstitutional alteration of the constitutional regime that seriously impairs the democratic order.” The Ortega regime must be held accountable for its crimes and failure to adhere to basic democratic principles. Toward democracy, truth, justice and the full exercise of human rights in Nicaragua, we urge you to demand accountability for the Ortega regime’s human rights abuses and publicly press for genuine democracy on behalf of the Nicaraguan people. Thank you for your attention to this matter of utmost importance. ###
06.08.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee and Founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Everglades Caucus, released the following statement after the passage of H.R. 5895, the Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act. “As Everglades Caucus Co-Chair, I am pleased with the funding we included in this bill to continue Everglades restoration. Everglades National Park is a natural treasure, and these federal dollars allow us to preserve it for future generations. It also provides for the expedited rehabilitation of the Herbert Hoover Dike, a critical dam to the communities surrounding Lake Okeechobee, which suffered damage from the 2017 hurricane season. The legislation also includes resources that support our military infrastructure, ensuring our troops have the adequate resources they need to defend our country. In a time where we face both domestic and foreign threats, we must do everything we can to protect our national security and support our servicemen and women. “I congratulate Chairman Frelinghuysen, and Subcommittee Chairmen Carter and Simpson for their work on this legislation. I look forward to continue our progress and get all 12 appropriations bills to the House floor in regular order.” As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Diaz-Balart worked with his colleagues to secure the following funding the Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act. $67.5 million for South Florida Ecosystem Restoration (which includes projects from the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Project (CERP) $96 million for Herbert Hoover Dike $85.3 billion for the Department of Veterans Affairs to provide quality care to our veterans $50 million for Donor/Energy transfer ports, such as Port Miami, build needed infrastructure improvements $200 million for flood and storm damage reduction $10.3 billion to continue rebuilding our military’s infrastructure $1.6 billion for housing to support 1.4 million military families currently served $456.4 million for the U.S. Capitol Police, to enhance the safety and security of the Capitol and Complex and the visitors, staff, and Members who walk the halls of Congress every day Funding to support continued maintenance and improvements of Florida’s waterways $50 million for inland waterways $60 million for small, remote, or subsistence navigation $32.9 million for navigation maintenance ###
06.07.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Everglades Caucus, released the following statement after the passage of H.R. 8, the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2018. “The Water Resources Development Act provides stability and certainty for America’s waterways and infrastructure. This stability is critical to Southern Florida, where we depend on the Everglades and other sources for clean drinking water. As Transportation Appropriations Chairman, I am proud to support further investment in America’s infrastructure and appreciate the work this bill does in furthering that commitment to our waterways. WRDA includes extensive funding to allow Collier and Miami-Dade Counties to upgrade their water reuse supply and water interconnectivity infrastructure. Additionally, a provision was included to ensure Lake Okeechobee's water levels coincide with the expedited completion of the Herbert Hoover Dike, reducing the risk of flooding in the surrounding Hendry County communities. The bill authorizes the Federal Emergency Management Agency to help localities and states with flooding mitigation, a vital provision as we begin the 2018 Hurricane Season. The legislation also advances continued restoration of the Everglades, which impacts the livelihood of the ecosystem and the strength of our local economy. “I congratulate Speaker Ryan and Chairman Shuster on the passage of this legislation that will secure our access to clean drinking water and preserve the Everglades for future generations.” ###
06.06.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement after the Committee approved the fiscal year 2019 Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies bill. “Continued restoration of the Everglades is critical to our ecosystem and local economy. As Floridians, we are fortunate to have access to beautiful parks like Everglades National Park, but we must do everything we can to preserve it for future generations. This bill supports the continued restoration process, as well as funding for Everglades ecosystem studies through the U.S. Geological Survey. The bill also includes funding for the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program, which is vital to localities like Collier County, who rely on those funds to provide emergency and social services. Southern Florida has experienced an outbreak of wildfires, and I am glad this bill also provides for wildland firefighting and prevention. “I commend Chairman Frelinghuysen and Subcommittee Chairman Simpson for their leadership on this bill. I look forward to supporting the legislation on the House floor so that we may continue to protect the Everglades, its ecosystem, and Floridians’ access to clean drinking water.”As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Diaz-Balart worked with his colleagues to secure the following funding in the fiscal year Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies bill: $63.834 million for continued restoration of the Everglades $10 million for planning and interagency coordination in support Everglades restoration $157 million for ecosystem programs under the U.S. Geological Survey, including those in the Everglades $500 million for the Payment in Lieu of Taxes program, which Collier County is the largest recipient in Florida of $75 million for the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act Program $3.9 billion for wildland firefighting and prevention $3.25 billion for the National Park Service $3.5 billion for the State and Tribal Assistance Grants account $1.6 billion for the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service $360 million for the Land and Water Conservation Fund $11 million for the Multinational Species Conservation Fund Language supporting the inclusion of Latino contributions in Smithsonian Institute programs, exhibitions, collections, and public outreach Click here to view a summary of the bill. ###
06.05.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, today announced Miami-Dade County was awarded a $7 million Infrastructure for Rebuilding America (INFRA) grant from the Department of Transportation. “I am proud to announce this INFRA grant that will boost our local economy and lead to continued growth at PortMiami. Over the last several years, the Port has undertaken work to expand and modernize its capabilities, paving the way for larger ships to pass through. These larger vessels now bring more cargo, and more revenue, to Southern Florida. This additional cargo has also increased the number of vehicles traveling through the Port's truck gates, causing significant delays and traffic. This INFRA grant will allow PortMiami to upgrade and automate its truck gates to better accommodate the influx of vehicles, continuing the modernization of PortMiami’s infrastructure. “I am grateful to Secretary Chao for awarding these dollars to PortMiami. The Secretary continues to work diligently for the American people, and I value her leadership and support. As Transportation Appropriations Chairman, I am in a unique position to support programs like INFRA that create opportunities for localities and transit hubs to fund critical projects. I will continue to work tirelessly for my community, my state, and my country and am thankful for the opportunity to once again bring much needed dollars home.”As Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, Diaz-Balart funded the Infrastructure for Rebuilding America (INFRA) grant program at $2.52 billion in the fiscal year 2018 spending bill, and increased funding to $4.2 billion in his fiscal year 2019 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development bill, which was recently approved by Committee. He also included $250 million for seaports as part of DOT’s BUILD grant program (formerly known as TIGER). ###
06.04.2018	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, today visited a Stormwater and Drainage Improvements project site in the City of Sweetwater. This project was completed using Community Block Development Grant (CDBG) funds from fiscal year 2017. CDBG is a program under the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), which is funded by Diaz-Balart’s Subcommittee. “The Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program allows localities such as Sweetwater to receive federal funding for important economic development or infrastructure and housing needs. Through CDBG, localities are able to create or upgrade local community projects and programs they might not be able to afford otherwise. The CDBG funds used here helped to complete a stormwater and drainage project that will make a significant difference in heavy rainfall storms. Like we saw after Hurricane Irma, proper drainage is key to reducing damage to our homes and roads. As Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, I was proud to support CDBG at $3.3 billion in both the recently passed funding bill and my fiscal year 2019 bill that was just passed by the Committee. I applaud Sweetwater Mayor Lopez on the completion of this project and appreciate his efforts. I will continue to work with local community leaders to ensure Southern Florida localities are able to compete for federal dollars through CDBG.”As Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, Diaz-Balart is a strong supporter of CDBG and funded it at $3.3 billion in both fiscal year 2018 and 2019. Diaz-Balart also provided historic levels of funding for the Community Development Block Grant-Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR) program in the wake of the 2017 hurricane season and wildfires. Within the two emergency disaster relief supplemental packages that were approved by Congress and enacted by the President, $38 billion was included for CDBG-DR, and $1.4 billion of that was allocated to Florida. Please see individual photos for attribution credit. ​This photo should be attributed to the City of Sweetwater. ​This photo should be attributed to the Office of Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart. ​This photo should be attributed to the City of Sweetwater.This photo should be attributed to the City of Sweetwater. ###
06.01.2018	MIAMI ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart, senior member of the House Appropriations and Budget Committees, issued the following statement after the Department of Labor released the May 2018 jobs report. “Today’s report is an indicator of the success of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Individuals continue to enter the job market, walking away from dependence and poverty and finding themselves self-sufficient and independent. Thanks to tax reform and its effect on our economy, the unemployment rate is the lowest it has been in over 18 years. With this quarter’s GDP forecast to expand at above 4 percent, the American people are confident in our bustling economy and the pro-growth policies I am proud to champion with my House Republican colleagues. It is clear that Democratic proposals to raise taxes would hurt the American people and reverse these gains.” The U.S. Department of Labor reported 223,000 jobs were added in May and the unemployment rate was 3.8 percent. ###
05.25.2018	MIAMI ­­– Today, Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) and colleagues Reps. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), Albio Sires (NJ-08), Carlos Curbelo (FL-26), Paul Cook (CA-08), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and Chris Smith (NJ-04) introduced a resolution honoring the Ladies in White and commending them for receiving the Cato Institute’s 2018 Milton Friedman Prize for Advancing Liberty. The Ladies in White are female relatives of political prisoners who protest the unjust imprisonment of their loved ones in Cuba. Read the full text of the resolution. Whereas Las Damas de Blanco (also known as the Ladies in White) is a group composed of female relatives of imprisoned political prisoners, prisoners of conscience, and peaceful dissidents in Cuba; Whereas, in April 2003, during the wave of repression known as the ‘‘Black Spring’’, a group of strong and courageous women formed Las Damas de Blanco in response to the wrongful imprisonment of their family members by the regime in Cuba; Whereas since the inception of the group, the members of Las Damas de Blanco have attended Sunday mass in the Church of Santa Rita in Havana, Cuba, and then marched peacefully through the streets of Havana holding photos of their jailed relatives and white gladioluses; Whereas members of Las Damas de Blanco regularly march to advocate for the release of all political prisoners and the freedom of the Cuban people; Whereas members of Las Damas de Blanco are regularly attacked by Cuban regime security forces and prevented from exercising their fundamental rights of the freedoms of expression and assembly; Whereas according to Amnesty International— (1) Las Damas de Blanco ‘‘remain[s] one of the primary targets of repression by Cuban [G]overnment authorities’’; and (2) members of Las Damas de Blanco are frequently detained and ‘‘often beaten by law enforcement officials and state security agents dressed as civilians’’ while in detention; Whereas according to the Human Rights Watch 2018 World Report, ‘‘detention is often used preemptively to prevent npeople from participating in peaceful marches or meetings to discuss politics, and detainees are often beaten, threatened, and held incommunicado for hours or days’’; Whereas the Human Rights Watch 2018 World Report noted that ‘‘Cuban Police or state security agents continue to routinely harass, rough up, and detain members of Las Damas de Blanco before or after they attend Sunday mass’’; Whereas, in 2005, Las Damas de Blanco was selected to receive the Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought, but the Cuban regime did not allow the members of the group to leave the island to accept the award; Whereas Laura Inés Pollán Toledo, the founder of Las Damas de Blanco, left an enduring legacy of resilient protest against human and civil rights abuses in Cuba; Whereas Laura Toledo died on October 14, 2011, and while her death garnered widespread international attention, the Cuban regime remained silent; Whereas according to Freedom House, in December 2013, Las Damas de Blanco ‘‘took to the streets to demonstrate against human rights abuses on International Human Rights Day, but were detained before the protest could begin’’; Whereas, in February 2015, 30 members of Las Damas de Blanco were arrested in an attempt by Cuban officials to bar the women from participating in the #TodosMarchamos march, which sought to advocate for the freedom of political prisoners in Cuba; Whereas on March 20, 2016, a few hours before President Barack Obama visited the communist country, Cuban authorities arrested more than 50 activists protesting the deteriorating state of human rights in Cuba and directly targeted Las Damas de Blanco; Whereas grave human rights abuses continue under the newly selected dictator, Miguel Díaz Canel; Whereas Las Damas de Blanco has appealed to the United States and other foreign governments in order to bring international attention to the repression of dissent by the Cuban regime and the plight of political prisoners, who are routinely jailed unjustly and without due process; Whereas on May 17, 2018, Las Damas de Blanco received the prestigious 2018 Milton Friedman Prize for Advancing Liberty for their bravery and continued efforts to fight for freedom in Cuba; Whereas the Milton Friedman Prize for Advancing Liberty acknowledges those who have advocated and contributed to advancing human liberty; and Whereas Berta de los Ángeles Soler Fernández and Leticia Ramos Herrería, members of Las Damas de Blanco, have been prohibited by the regime in Cuba from leaving the island to accept the 2018 Milton Friedman Prize for Advancing Liberty in the United States: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives— (1) congratulates Las Damas de Blanco on receiving the prestigious 2018 Milton Friedman Prize for Advancing Liberty; (2) honors the members of Las Damas de Blanco for their courageous efforts to stand up to the Cuban regime and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, such as those expressed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; (3) recognizes all of the valiant members of Las Damas de Blanco, including those who died before being able to see a free Cuba; (4) expresses solidarity and commitment to the democratic aspirations of the Cuban people; and (5) demands that members of Las Damas de Blanco be permitted to leave and return to the island without harassment, intimidation, or hindrance. ###
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, issued the following statement after the Appropriations Committee passed the fiscal year 2019 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development funding bill. The bill is now ready to be considered for a vote on the House floor. “As we continue our commitment to revitalize America’s infrastructure, I am proud that I was able to once again deliver significant levels of funding. My bill prioritizes programs that are critical to keeping Americans moving and serves as another down payment on rebuilding our nation’s roads, bridges, airports, seaports, and transit systems. Many of these dollars will go directly to States, removing bureaucratic roadblocks and ensuring decisions are made at the community level. Substantial funding is also included for BUILD grants, Airport and Highway grants, and Capital Investment Grants, which will allow localities in Southern Florida, and across the country, to compete for funds to upgrade and modernize their infrastructure needs. I am particularly proud of a provision I included, alongside Defense Subcommittee Chairwoman Kay Granger, which addresses actions by the Chinese government to dominate transit manufacturing globally through unfair subsidies to their state-owned companies. This provision is critically important to our national security, as well as American businesses and manufacturers. “In the housing section of my bill, I was able to include vital funds that will expand access to affordable housing through programs like the Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) and the HOME Investment Partnerships Program. I know how far these dollars will go, and how much these programs are able to leverage into private sector investment for the community. I was also able to include $50 million for a Mobility Demonstration that, through counseling and moving services, will help families move out of impoverished areas and closer to jobs and economic independence. I worked tirelessly with Chairman Jeb Hensarling on this issue, which will help address inter-generational poverty for families served by HUD. I am proud to be in a position to help Florida’s most vulnerable populations, and will continue working to protect our nation’s most needy. “I thank Chairman Frelinghuysen for his continued support and guidance, and am humbled by his unwavering commitment to the American people. It has been an honor working with him and he will be missed on this Committee and in Congress. I look forward to getting this bill to the House floor in regular order and am thankful for this unique opportunity to deliver results for Southern Florida and our great country.”As Chairman of this Appropriations Subcommittee, Diaz-Balart was able to secure the following funding so that localities across the country like Collier, Hendry, and Miami-Dade Counties could apply for and compete for grants to improve their infrastructure and transit systems and address their affordable housing needs. $4.25 billion for highway grants which goes directly to the states $750 million for the Department of Transportation’s BUILD grant program (formerly known as TIGER), helping localities fund infrastructure they might not be able to otherwise without federal dollars $250 million set aside for port projects $250 million set aside for urban areas $250 million set aside for rural areas $1.3 billion for NextGen investments to modernize air traffic control $500 million for airport infrastructure grants $150 million is included for the Tribal Transportation Program to fund projects on federal and tribal lands $300 million for Consolidated Rail Infrastructure and Safety Improvements grants which will improve the safety, efficiency, and reliability of passenger and freight rail systems $150 million for grants to install positive train control (PTC) technologies $800 million for transit infrastructure grants $150 million for urbanized area formula grants $350 million for bus and bus facilities competitive grants $50 million for rural areas $200 million for state of good repair grants $50 million for high density state apportionments $2.6 billion for Capital Investment Grants, which provides grant funding for major transit capital investments that are planned and operated by local communities $835.7 million for signed new starts projects $500 million for unsigned new starts projects $200 million for signed core capacity projects $550 million for unsigned core capacity projects $502 million for small starts projects Language is included pushing the Administration to move projects through the pipeline and execute the program consistent with the will of Congress $3.3 billion for Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) $1.2 billion for the HOME Investment Partnerships Program, which provides incentives for private sector and non-profit development of affordable housing $22 billion in public housing vouchers, helping needy populations including the elderly, disabled, and veterans. $393 million for housing for persons living with HIV/AIDS $632 million for Housing for the Elderly $154 million for Housing for Persons with Disabilities For the subcommittee text of the legislation, click here. ###
05.21.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after yesterday’s farce elections in Venezuela. In response, the Trump administration today issued additional sanctions against the Maduro regime. Many international organizations such as the Lima Group, the OAS, and the EU have condemned Maduro’s corruption, repression, and assaults on democratic institutions. “Yesterday’s farce only further demonstrates just how far the Maduro regime has fallen. The regime’s blatant power grabs, with this farcical ‘election’ as the latest example, have further isolated the regime and rallied the international community to echo the Venezuelan people’s demands for freedom. “The humanitarian crisis in Venezuela deepens daily, with hundreds of thousands choosing to flee rather than face the crime, destitution, and oppression at home. Yet while the people in Venezuela starve and endure extreme medical shortages, the oil-rich Maduro regime sends oil belonging to the Venezuelan people to prop up the Maduro regime’s bosses in Havana. He prohibits much-needed aid from entering the country to help those who are suffering. Maduro’s cruel and self-serving actions are those of a dictator, not the actions of a leader who will face genuine accountability at the polls. “Today’s newest sanctions discourage further liquidation of Venezuela’s assets, making it harder for the regime to steal from the Venezuelan people. The people of Venezuela deserve much more, beginning with a legitimate government that is the result of free, fair, and multiparty elections. I commend the Trump administration for imposing tough sanctions against the Maduro regime and its cronies, and applaud the mounting voices in the international community calling for genuine elections and a restoration of basic liberties in Venezuela.” ###
05.20.2018	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement on the 116th anniversary of Cuban Independence Day. “Today, we commemorate the 116th anniversary of Cuban Independence Day. “Sadly, the Cuban people remain oppressed by a brutal dictatorship that has enslaved them for nearly six decades. While some have hailed the ‘transition’ from one dictator to another, we must heed the warning of Cuban independence hero Jose Marti that, ‘To change masters is not to be free.’ To signify a true transition, all political prisoners must be released; the Cuban people must enjoy the rights of free expression and association, fair, multiparty elections; and independent media, labor unions, and political parties must be legalized. Until those simple conditions are met, tyranny continues. “A few days ago, the courageous Ladies in White aptly received the Cato Institute’s Milton Friedman Prize for Advancing Liberty. Due to the bravery and resilience of activists like them, the Cuban people will win their freedom once again. I am proud to stand in solidarity with them in that noble struggle. “So as we celebrate Cuba’s 116 years of independence from Spain, we look forward to the day when the longsuffering Cuban people finally rid themselves of an oppressive dictatorship that has tormented, murdered, and imprisoned for far too long. On that day, we will join the Cuban people in celebrating their true, hard-won independence.” ###
05.18.2018	MIAMI– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the Trump Administration issued additional sanctions against Maduro regime operatives, including Diosdado Cabello. “I applaud the Administration for imposing tough sanctions on the nefarious Maduro regime and its cronies. Diosdado Cabello, whom the Treasury Department accuses of narco-trafficking and money laundering, is one of the most corrupt actors in the regime. In addition, targeted sanctions against his brother, his wife, a businessman and three U.S. companies demonstrate that the United States will hold accountable those involved in the regime’s corruption, narco-trafficking, and other crimes. “I commend the President and his administration for standing with the people of Venezuela by further isolating their oppressors. The United States will continue to support the Venezuelan people in their democratic aspirations, and oppose the corruption, criminality, and tyranny of the failed Maduro regime.” ###
05.17.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement after the Committee approved the fiscal year 2019 Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations bill. The legislation included an increase in funding for the STOP School Violence Act, which Diaz-Balart worked with Chairman Frelinghuysen and Subcommittee Chairman Culberson to secure. “I am proud to have secured increased funding for school hardening measures through the STOP School Violence Act. The bill, which initially passed in the fiscal year 2018 omnibus, provides our schools with additional resources to strengthen their safety protocols. We must give school personnel and law enforcement the ability to make our classrooms safer through upgraded technology and the appropriate training. We cannot let another tragedy like Parkland happen again, and I am grateful to be in a position to be able to fight for this critical funding. I am especially appreciative of Congressman Ted Deutch and his willingness to work with me to attain these federal dollars in a bipartisan manner. “I look forward to working with Chairman Frelinghuysen and Subcommittee Chairman Culberson to seeing this important bill through House passage.”As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Diaz-Balart worked with his colleagues to secure the following funding in the fiscal year 2019 Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations bill: $100 million for school hardening measures through the STOP School Violence Act $441.5 million to provide states, localities, and tribes with funding to support law enforcement, prosecution and courts, crime prevention, corrections, drug treatment, and other important initiatives through the Byrne Justice Assistance Grants $410 million for Legal Services Partnership, providing access to legal aid to individuals who might not be able to afford it otherwise $10 million to begin addressing aging Fishery Science Centers, including NOAA’s Southeast Fisheries Science Center in Miami $22.5 million to continue a Body Worn Camera Partnership with states and localities who purchase the technology for their departments $4.79 billion to assist states and localities with the 2020 Census Click here to view a summary of the bill. ###
05.17.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement after the Committee approved the fiscal year 2019 Agriculture Appropriations bill. “I am pleased to support this legislation that will help our nation's farmers, ranchers, and growers. Citrus greening has long been a problematic, invasive disease for Florida's premiere crop. Through targeted funding for research and emergency response, this bill will help our growers address this critical issue. Our state’s agricultural industry is still picking up the pieces and rebuilding from the 2017 hurricane season. As we prepare to enter the 2018 hurricane season, we must ensure our farm and ranch families are prepared to take on whatever Mother Nature brings their way. I look forward to working with Chairman Frelinghuysen and Subcommittee Chairman Aderholt to see this bill through passage on the House floor.” As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Diaz-Balart worked with his colleagues to secure the following funding in the fiscal year 2019 Agriculture Appropriations bill. Funding to protect our citrus industry and combat citrus greening $998 million for the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) $61 million specifically for citrus health under APHIS $3 million for multi-agency coordination related to citrus greening $63.6 million for Oriental Fruit Fly exclusion and detection Language is included highlighting the need to protect the citrus industry and encourages continued research $6.9 billion for rural electric and telephone infrastructure loans $3 billion for rural development programs $1.45 billion for rural water and waste program loans $637 million for water and waste grants $20 million for the expansion of rural broadband services $1 billion to help farmers, ranchers, and private forest landowners conserve and protect their land Click here to view a summary of the bill. ###
05.16.2018	WASHINGTON ­­– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee and Founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Everglades Caucus, released the following statement after the Committee approved the fiscal year 2019 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill. “The Everglades is the heart of the Sunshine State's ecosystem, and we must do everything we can to preserve it for future generations. This bill fully funds the South Florida Ecosystem Restoration, which includes projects from the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan (CERP). The legislation also provides an increase for the continued work on the Herbert Hoover Dike. Not only will these projects sustain the Everglades and the tourism it supports, but it will also protect Floridians' access to clean drinking water and mitigate against future floods. As Founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Everglades Caucus, I have worked tirelessly with my colleagues to ensure every dollar possible goes towards continued restoration efforts. I am pleased to have supported this legislation in Committee, and look forward to working with Chairman Frelinghuysen and Subcommittee Chairman Simpson on its passage when it is considered on the House floor.” As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Diaz-Balart worked with his colleagues to secure the following funding in the fiscal year 2019 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill. $67.5 million for South Florida Ecosystem Restoration (which includes projects from the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Project (CERP) $96 million for Herbert Hoover Dike $50 million for Donor/Energy transfer ports, such as Port Miami, build needed infrastructure improvements $200 million for flood and storm damage reduction Funding to support continued maintenance and improvements of Florida’s waterways $50 million for inland waterways $60 million for small, remote, or subsistence navigation $32.9 million for navigation maintenance
05.15.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after returning from a congressional delegation trip to the opening of the U.S. Embassy in Jerusalem. While in Israel, Diaz-Balart and his congressional colleagues met with a number of foreign dignitaries, including Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and U.S. Ambassador to Israel David Friedman. “I was proud to represent the United States Congress with my colleagues for the official opening of the embassy in Jerusalem. Despite becoming law in 1995 with overwhelming bipartisan support, past administrations never moved the embassy to its rightful location. This President and his administration delivered on their promise and officially recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel in December. Jerusalem is the true, undivided home of our embassy, and I am glad the United States has finally taken this bold step. “It should surprise no one that Hamas organized thousands of people to crash the borders in an attempt to violate Israel’s security and sovereignty. Hamas is responsible for the death of the 60 people killed, and must be held accountable for its actions. The State of Israel has the right and obligation to protect itself, the towns that lie around the border, and its sovereignty. Israel is one of our strongest allies, and we must continue our support for the state and her people as they face a grave threat in both Iran and Hamas.”The first photo should be attributed to the Office of Congressman Joe Wilson. The remaining photos should be attributed to the Office of Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart. The Congressional Delegation meets with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Congressman Diaz-Balart meets with U.S. Ambassador to Israel David Friedman. The Congressional Delegation attends the opening of the U.S. Embassy in Jerusalem. Congressman Diaz-Balart attends the opening of the U.S. Embassy in Israel. Congressman Diaz-Balart meets with U.S. Marine Security Guards at the U.S. Embassy in Jerusalem. ###
05.15.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, issued the following statement after he introduced the fiscal year 2019 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development funding bill. “I am proud to introduce this legislation that continues the work we accomplished last year towards rebuilding our nation’s infrastructure. For the second year in a row, I have worked to protect hard-earned taxpayer dollars and reduce waste and abuse, while providing historic funding levels to improve our airports, roads, bridges, and seaports. In turn, this will create jobs across the country and locally, and will lead to a boost in our economy. Right here in Southern Florida, localities can compete for the $750 million provided to the multimodal BUILD program (formerly known as TIGER) for new infrastructure projects. Our local airports can pull from the $500 million provided to Airport Grants, our community will receive needed funds from the $4.25 billion provided for Highway Grants, and our bus and rail systems can benefit from the $2.6 billion provided for Capital Investment Grants or the $800 million provided for transit infrastructure grants. With this bill, our local community is empowered to revitalize the roads, bridges, buses, and rail lines we use every day. “Expanding access to affordable housing is also emphasized in this legislation. Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) are funded at $3.3 billion dollars, providing localities with the opportunity to apply for grants that address community development, poverty, and other infrastructure needs. Also included is $1.2 billion for the HOME Investment Partnerships Program, which leverages this funding with private investments to create more affordable housing options. Housing for the elderly is funded at $632 million dollars, vouchers for disabled citizens is funded at $390 million dollars, and housing assistance for those living with HIV/AIDS is funded at $393 million dollars. I am confident we are helping those with the most need in this legislation. “I thank Chairman Frelinghuysen and Ranking Member Price for their efforts in crafting this bill. I am pleased with the work we have done to upgrade our nation’s infrastructure, and am humbled that my Subcommittee Chairmanship affords me the unique opportunity to help our nation and our local community. I will continue to work tirelessly to deliver results for Floridians, and ensure your federal dollars are seen back home.”As Chairman of this Appropriations Subcommittee, Diaz-Balart was able to secure the following funding so that localities across the country like Collier, Hendry, and Miami-Dade Counties could apply for and compete for grants to improve their infrastructure and transit systems and address their affordable housing needs. $750 million for the Department of Transportation’s BUILD grant program (formerly known as TIGER), helping localities fund infrastructure they might not be able to otherwise without federal dollars $250 million set aside for port projects $250 million set aside for urban areas $250 million set aside for rural areas $1.3 billion for NextGen investments to modernize air traffic control $500 million for airport infrastructure grants $4.25 billion for highway grants which goes directly to the states $150 million is included for the Tribal Transportation Program to fund projects on federal and tribal lands $300 million for Consolidated Rail Infrastructure and Safety Improvements grants which will improve the safety, efficiency, and reliability of passenger and freight rail systems $150 million for grants to install positive train control (PTC) technologies $800 million for transit infrastructure grants $150 million for urbanized area formula grants $350 million for bus and bus facilities competitive grants $50 million for rural areas $200 million for state of good repair grants $50 million for high density state apportionments $2.6 billion for Capital Investment Grants, which provides grant funding for major transit capital investments that are planned and operated by local communities $835.7 million for signed new starts projects $500 million for unsigned new starts projects $200 million for signed core capacity projects $550 million for unsigned core capacity projects $502 million for small starts projects Language is included pushing the Administration to move projects through the pipeline and execute the program consistent with the will of Congress $3.3 billion for Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) $1.2 billion for the HOME Investment Partnerships Program, which provides incentives for private sector and non-profit development of affordable housing $22 billion in public housing vouchers, helping needy populations including the elderly, disabled, and veterans. $393 million for housing for persons living with HIV/AIDS $632 million for Housing for the Elderly, and $154 million for Housing for Persons with Disabilities For the subcommittee draft text of the legislation, click here. ###
05.09.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after he signed a discharge petition on H.Res 774, a resolution that would bring a series of immigration bills to the House floor through a the “queen-of-the-hill” vote. “As I have said numerous times before, I have made it abundantly clear to House leadership that we need to fix our broken immigration system. I worked behind the scenes with members from both sides of the aisle and both chambers on a legislative proposal that could garner enough votes on the floor, which they rejected in 2014. I also gave them plenty of time to bring other commonsense bills to the floor through regular order, but enough is enough. We are running out of options. They have not acted, so we must take this drastic step with a discharge petition, and allow the People's House to record their votes on a legislative solution for children and young adults who came to the United States at the decision of a parent or guardian. “It is time to vote on legislation that will provide a permanent solution for Dreamers. This problem will not solve itself. After many years of inaction from previous administrations and Democratic leadership, I am proud to join my colleagues in bringing forth this discharge petition. We must continue our work towards a reasonable solution that secures our borders, humanely deals with those living the in shadows, respects the rule of law, modernizes our visa system, and bolsters the economy.” For over a decade, Diaz-Balart has been a leader on immigration in Congress. In 2014, he was dismayed when House leadership would not give his immigration legislation a vote on the House floor, and has since then continued to work with colleagues from both sides of the aisle and both chambers to find a solution to our country’s broken immigration system. H.Res. 774 proposes to bring to the House floor the Securing America’s Future Act, the DREAM Act, the USA Act, and an immigration bill of Speaker Paul Ryan’s choice. The rule would allow bill sponsors the opportunity to amend language prior to debate and, ultimately, a vote. In this vote series, the bill receiving the highest number of votes exceeding 218 would pass the House under a rule known as “queen-of-the-hill.” While queen-of-the-hill is rarely invoked, it has been successful as recently as 2015 when multiple budget proposals were considered. H.Res. 774 would allow the House of Representatives to consider solutions for DACA recipients and Dreamers, border security, and broader immigration issues, which the majority of Americans agree should be addressed. ###
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after U.S. President Donald Trump announced his decision on the Iran deal. “I strongly support the Trump Administration’s withdrawal from the reckless and dangerous Iran deal, a serious threat to our national security that finances global terrorism. I voted against the deal in 2015 because it did nothing to prevent Iran’s development of missiles, nor would it permanently end its nuclear weapons program. As I said after that vote, the Iran deal paved the way for a dangerous state sponsor of terrorism to achieve what it wanted most – nuclear weapons, and the means and funds to deliver them. “Since then, the deal has provided legitimacy and millions in economic relief to a murderous, oppressive regime that opposes U.S. interests and threatens America’s allies. Iran continues to assist its terrorist proxies and international terrorist networks, directly endangering U.S. soldiers and America’s allies, has exacerbated violence in Syria, Yemen and Iraq, as well as instability in Lebanon. Additionally, Iran has continued developing its missile arsenal, launching over 20 ballistic missiles since the deal was signed in 2015. “I commend the Trump Administration for taking this bold step to withdraw from this reckless deal that poses a threat to the United States, and for standing with our close ally Israel. The regime in Iran cannot be trusted, and today’s withdrawal gives the United States and our allies a chance to forge a better path toward global stability and a nuclear-free Iran.” ###
05.07.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after U.S. Vice President Michael Pence announced additional sanctions against the Maduro regime during a speech at a meeting of the Organization of American States. “I commend the Administration for announcing new, tough sanctions against three more Maduro cronies, and for demanding genuine elections that are free and fair. I also welcome the announced $2.5 million in aid to meet the needs of Venezuelan refugees fleeing to Colombia to escape oppression and destitution, which is in addition to the $16 million promised at the Summit of the Americas. Many OAS countries have condemned Maduro’s malfeasance and assaults on democracy. With rampant corruption and crime escalating in Venezuela, particularly by those with close ties to the Maduro regime, individuals such as those sanctioned today must be strictly prohibited from laundering their ill-gotten gains through the U.S. financial system. Today’s announcement at OAS is a strong demonstration of America’s commitment to democracy and freedom for the Venezuelan people, and I greatly appreciate the administration’s leadership in promoting U.S. values and interests in our hemisphere.” In today’s announcement, the administration sanctioned Pedro Luis Martin Olivares as a significant foreign narcotics trafficker under the Kingpin Act. It also sanctioned Walter Alexander Del Nogal Marquez and Mario Antonio Rodriguez Espinoza for assisting in international narcotics trafficking. These sanctions were the result of the coordinated efforts by the Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, the Drug Enforcement Administration, and Customs and Border Protection’s National Targeting Center. More information on the sanctions can be found here. ###
05.04.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the Department of Homeland Security announced it would be ending Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Honduran nationals living in the United States after a 20 month phase-out period.“I am disappointed and opposed to the Administration’s decision to end Temporary Protected Status for Honduran nationals currently residing in the United States. These individuals have integrated themselves into local communities across the country. They have families, productive jobs, and established lives. Crime and murder is rampant in Honduras; forcing these individuals back would be dangerous and inhumane. As I did with the decisions to end TPS for Haitian, Nicaraguan, and Salvadoran nationals who reside in the United States, I strongly urge the Administration to reconsider this decision.”Diaz-Balart has been a longtime advocate for extending TPS for Honduran, Haitian, Nicaraguan, and Salvadoran nationals residing in the United States. He is a co-sponsor of the ESPERER Act, bipartisan legislation that would grant legal permanent resident status to eligible migrants that received TPS protection prior to January 13, 2011.###
04.27.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, issued the following statement after the passage of H.R. 4, the FAA Reauthorization Act. H.R. 4 also includes the Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA). “I am proud to vote for today's five year FAA reauthorization that will provide stability to our nation's airspace and airline industry. As Transportation Appropriations Chairman, I recognize the importance of this legislation and the support it will gives to our nation's infrastructure and the 2.5 million passengers that travel through our airports daily. This bill includes reforms to increase safety and security measures, as well as provisions to ensure the United States remains the global leader in aviation innovation and passenger service. “The bill also addresses increased mitigation efforts ahead of natural disasters. In the wake of the 2017 hurricane season, we saw how critical preparedness is to protecting our homes and families. This legislation provides for grants to flood-proof hospitals and first responder centers, elevate existing structures, and allow for more frequent use of wind-resilient construction materials, which can make a significant difference in disaster preparation and recovery. By taking the right steps in resilient construction and readiness, we can lessen the impact natural disasters have on our communities. “I congratulate Speaker Ryan and Chairman Shuster for their leadership on this legislation, and look forward to continue working with them to keep Americans moving safely and efficiently and to advocate and provide for stronger mitigation efforts.” ###
04.25.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after French President Emmanuel Macron addressed a joint meeting of Congress. “For more than two centuries, the United States is fortunate to have had our French allies standing by our side. I am proud to join President Trump and Speaker Ryan in welcoming French President Emmanuel Macron to address a joint meeting of Congress. Macron's address to Congress this morning was one of solidarity and freedom, a message that was overwhelmingly welcomed by this hallowed body. I am thankful for the strong friendship France has demonstrated to the United States, especially in our recent action against the Syrian regime. May the United States and France’s friendship continue to deepen in our pursuit for democracy, human rights, and peace throughout the world.” ###
04.18.2018	WASHINGTON – El Congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (FL-25) emitió la siguiente declaración hoy tras la designación del títere castrista Miguel Díaz Canel. “Hoy, el régimen de Castro ha nombrado otro títere. De la misma forma en que Fidel Castro nombro ‘presidente’ a Osvaldo Dorticós hasta 1976, Raul Castro ha nombrado ahora a Miguel Díaz Canel como ‘presidente del Consejo de Ministros y Estado’. El mismo ejército cubano que ayer controlaba férreamente al turismo y la economía los sigue controlando hoy. Raúl Castro sigue siendo jefe del único partido ‘legal’ y las fuerzas armadas, su yerno sigue siendo jefe de la economía y su hijo continua como un alto oficial del temido Ministerio del Interior. El nombramiento de hoy del nuevo Dorticós es una coña. Lo importante es que el pueblo cubano será libre y yo continuare a su lado”. ###
04.18.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the designation of Castro puppet Miguel Díaz Canel. “Today, the Cuban regime has named a new puppet. Just like Fidel Castro named Osvaldo Dorticós as ‘president’ until 1976, Raul Castro has now named Miguel Díaz Canel as the new ‘president of the Council of Ministers and State.’ Raul Castro remains head of the sole ‘legal’ party and the armed forces, his son-in-law remains head of the economy, and his son remains a top official in the feared Ministry of the Interior. Today’s designation of a new Dorticós is a nothingburger. The important matter is that the Cuban people will be free, and I will continue to stand with them.” ###
04.17.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the passing of former First Lady Barbara Pierce Bush. “I am heartbroken to hear of the passing of former First Lady Barbara Pierce Bush. She was the matriarch of an upstanding, patriotic family, shaping her children into honorable men and women, two of which who would later serve our country as President and Governor. During her time in the White House, she focused on literacy initiatives, declaring that it was the 'most important issue.' Her innate propensity for kindness and passion to help others will continue to live on through her foundation, the Barbara Bush Foundation for Family Literacy. I offer my deep condolences to former President George H.W. Bush, their children, grandchildren, and great grandchildren. Barbara Pierce Bush's legacy is a blessing to our country.” ###
04.16.2018	HIALEAH – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) today joined President Donald Trump, Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL), Labor Secretary Alex Acosta, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, and local business owners for a tax reform roundtable at Bucky Dent Park in Hialeah. The roundtable highlighted the impact of tax reform since the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was passed and signed into law in December. Local business owners shared their personal stories, discussing how they have been able to invest in their businesses and their employees since the law was enacted. “Since the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in December, we have seen the positive impact tax reform has had on our economy. At 4.1%, the unemployment rate continues to drop as employers are able to create more jobs, expanding opportunities to more Americans. More than 4 million workers (and counting) are seeing wage increases, obtaining bonuses, and receiving other employee investments; companies small and large are passing on the benefits of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act to their workforce. Lower taxes and a simplified tax code are also helping individuals and families, allowing them to keep more of their hard-earned paychecks. “I was honored to welcome the President of the United States to Hialeah this afternoon to continue the conversation on tax reform and discuss the impact it has had thus far with local business owners. I look forward to continue working with the President, Vice President, and my congressional colleagues to provide more opportunities for American families across the country.” ###
04.13.2018	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after President Trump announced military strikes against the Syrian regime. “Tonight, President Trump took a firm stance and decisively punished the Assad dictatorship for its use of horrifying chemical weapons on innocent people. Bashar al-Assad has mercilessly murdered his own people with weapons so terrible that the international community has banned them for almost a century. Tonight’s strike was ordered to ensure chemical warfare remains a banned weapon. I also stand with the President in his condemnation of the Russian and Iranian regimes for their support of the Syrian despot still torturing his citizens.” ###
04.12.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) delivered the following opening statement during a House Appropriations hearing on the U.S. Department of Transportation’s FY2019 budget request with Secretary Elaine Chao.As prepared for delivery: “Today we welcome Secretary Elaine Chao to testify on the Fiscal Year 2019 budget request for the Department of Transportation. “The fiscal year 2019 budget request for the Department of Transportation is $15.9 billion in discretionary budget authority, and $75.9 billion in total resources, including obligation limitations for surface transportation and aviation programs. “I would note that this budget request was developed prior to the bipartisan budget Act that lifted sequester for two years and raised the discretionary budget caps. “This bipartisan deal set the stage for us to take immediate action last month to invest in our nation’s future, and to rebuild our roads, railways, and airports. “The 2018 THUD bill invests nearly $11 billion in new transportation and housing infrastructure. “What we just did in the omnibus showed that this committee does real infrastructure. “I would note that we made these investments without adding to the bureaucracy. I would also note that if you take what we did to invest in infrastructure just this year – on this subcommittee – and extend it over ten years, you get over $100 billion in infrastructure investments in transportation and housing alone. “This is over half of the $200 billion proposed by the administration for the infrastructure initiative over ten years. And that figure only counts this subcommittee. “My point is that this committee does real infrastructure. We did it in the omnibus, and I believe we will do it again in fiscal year 2019. “Madam Secretary, I don’t think you will see support on this Committee for deep cuts to DOT, especially considering the bill we just passed, and given the two year caps deal that was signed by the President. “That is not to say we shouldn’t make smart reductions to ineffective programs. But there is a consensus on this committee that it’s time to invest in our nation, and to invest wisely. “There is no doubt that we need to improve our roads, bridges, and railways to bring them to a state of good repair. “We must also continue making progress to modernize our air traffic control system, which is the most advanced, complex, and safest system in the world. “The Administration has proposed general outlines for a larger infrastructure initiative. But we have not yet seen a specific legislative proposal for this initiative. "I agree that we should have a discussion on how to innovate, incentivize, and streamline. But right now we can move forward with authorized programs, particularly building on the bipartisan FAST Act. “We just did that in the omnibus, and we will focus on authorized programs once again as we get to work on fiscal year 2019. The next fiscal year is less than six months away. We are ready to move. “Secretary Chao, I always enjoy our frank and open conversations, and I appreciate your appearance before us today to discuss how we can invest in America – and get our country moving again. “Before we move on, I want to take a moment to once again express my deepest sympathies to the families and loved ones of those who lost their lives in the awful bridge collapse at Florida International University last month. It goes without saying that we must do everything we can to prevent anything like this from ever happening again. I’m sure we will learn a lot more about what happened once the National Transportation Safety Board completes its investigation. “I thank you and your staff for providing as much information as was possible in the immediate aftermath of the accident, and I look forward to your continued cooperation.” ###
04.11.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after Speaker Paul Ryan announced he would not seek re-election. “Paul Ryan has dutifully served our Congress and the American people as Speaker of the House. But for me he is much more than just our Speaker; he is a dear friend. We both come from very different backgrounds, but we formed a bond and friendship that went beyond our work together in Congress. I am forever grateful for his guidance on the Budget Committee when I was first elected to Congress, but most importantly, that he was courageous enough to take on fixing our broken immigration system with me when others would not. “His retirement after this session of Congress is a huge loss for Wisconsin and our country; there are few people who are as passionate, dedicated, and patriotic as Paul Ryan. He is a good man, loving husband, and devoted father, and I am lucky to count him among my friends.” ###
04.06.2018	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), a senior member of the House Committee on Appropriations, issued the following statement after the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) announced the implementation of up to $2.36 billion in disaster payments in response to the 2017 hurricane season and wildfires. Funded by Congress in the recently enacted Bipartisan Budget Act, these funds will assist growers, farmers, and other agriculture producers who suffered a loss from last fall’s natural disasters. “Florida’s agriculture industry took a massive hit during the 2017 hurricane season. Our agriculture industry reported significant losses as a result of these storms; the citrus industry alone estimates $760 million in damage. In the disaster supplemental legislation that was signed into law in February, my Appropriations Committee colleagues and I included $2.36 billion to help the agriculture industry recover from the destructive hurricanes and wildfires. I encourage all farmers and growers who experienced loss from these natural disasters to contact their local USDA service center to receive updates and information on this program.” The Bipartisan Budget Act included additional supplemental disaster relief, as many communities are still recovering from these destructive natural disasters. Click here to find a local USDA service center. ###
04.05.2018	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) issued an additional allocation of Community Development Block Grant-Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR) program funding to assist in recovery from the 2017 hurricane season. These funds will also be utilized for mitigation and preparedness for future natural disasters. Florida was today issued an additional $790 million, bringing the state’s current total of CDBG-DR funding to $1.4 billion. Diaz-Balart’s Appropriations Subcommittee funds the CDBG-DR program that allows HUD to help communities in need. Additional funding for other hurricane-impacted communities, including Texas, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands, was also issued. “The 2017 hurricane season left many parts of the United States and the territories of Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands in total devastation. As a member of the Florida delegation and Appropriations Committee, I am proud of the work we accomplished to help Americans recover from these storms. In my Housing Appropriations Subcommittee hearings, I have emphasized how critical CDBG-DR funds are in the aftermath of a natural disaster. I am grateful for the opportunity to work with Secretary Carson, who recognizes the continued need for assistance across the Southeast and the Caribbean. I will continue working with my colleagues to ensure our communities fully recover from the storms and are prepared for future natural disasters. In November, Diaz-Balart announced the first allocation of CDBG-DR funding, which issued $615.9 million for the state of Florida. As the recovery process continues, HUD has the ability to reassess the need for any additional funding. ###
04.03.2018	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) issued a $3.6 million Competitive Bus and Bus facilities grant for fiscal year 2017 to Miami-Dade County. Diaz-Balart is Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, which funds this grant program for state and local governments under DOT. “I am proud to announce that Miami-Dade County will receive $3.6 million in federal grant money to help grow their bus transit system. These funds will be used to purchase new buses, allowing the County to expand its system and replace outdated buses. As Transportation Appropriations Chairman, I am grateful the U.S. Department of Transportation awarded this grant to help the County upgrade its aging vehicle fleet. I look forward to seeing how the implementation of these new buses impacts the community, and remain committed to helping County leaders address local transit deficiencies.” In the recently passed funding bill, Diaz-Balart increased this grant program to $400 million, allowing Miami-Dade County and other localities to compete for additional federal dollars in fiscal year 2018. ###
03.29.2018	IMMOKALEE – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) offered remarks at an event highlighting Collier County’s recently awarded TIGER grant for Immokalee’s Complete Streets project. Diaz-Balart is the Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, which provides funding so that the Department of Transportation can select TIGER grant awardees. “As Transportation Appropriations Chairman, my Subcommittee provides funding for the TIGER program, and I am glad to see the money is going to good use right here in Florida. The Complete Streets project we are celebrating today will enhance bicycle and pedestrian networks. It will also provide for the installation of street lighting and the construction of new bus shelters, making our community safer and more accessible. I thank Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao for recognizing the need and awarding this critical grant to revitalize Immokalee. I look forward to continue working with County Commissioner Bill McDaniel and other local leaders in seeing this project through.” Earlier this month, Diaz-Balart and Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL) applauded the U.S. Department of Transportation's TIGER grant announcement. Photos should be credited to the Office of Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart. Congressman Diaz-Balart offers remarks at Immokalee TIGER grant event. Congressman Diaz-Balart pictured with County Commissioner Bill McDaniel and the team from Collier County who wrote the winning TIGER grant awarded by the U.S. Department of Transportation. ###
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the Trump administration today announced tough measures against the People’s Republic of China (PRC), in a move to thwart the communist country from continuing longstanding unfair trade practices and intellectual property (IP) theft. “I commend President Trump for his tough stand against Communist China, which has gotten away with unfair trade practices and intellectual property theft for far too long. The President’s commonsense measures aim to level the playing field for American businesses, which have been forced to compete against the PRC’s currency manipulations, IP theft, and other dishonest or coercive business practices. Many of these advanced and manufacturing technologies are vital to American national security interests, and have taken many years and significant resources to develop. The PRC’s threatening activities toward its neighbors, longstanding assistance to the pariah state of North Korea, and egregious human rights abuses reveal that it does not share America’s interests in promoting global stability, democracy, and freedom. Today’s announcement by the President is a good first step toward protecting American businesses and hard-won innovation. The tough measures demonstrate that the PRC’s underhanded trade practices, which often implicate serious security concerns, may not continue with impunity.” ###
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, issued the following statement after the House passage of the fiscal year 2018 omnibus funding bill. “I am pleased to have supported this legislation that secures our schools, supports our troops, combats the opioid epidemic, and continues Everglades restoration efforts. As Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Subcommittee, I am particularly proud of what I was able to attain to help our country’s infrastructure and housing programs. Our nation’s infrastructure is in need of major improvement, and I ensured there was funding for the maintenance and upgrade of our bus and transit systems. With autonomous vehicle testing underway in cities across the country, including right here in the 25th district, there are funds for continued research and safety. I supplemented the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program, which helps states and localities address economic development and housing needs. Public housing vouchers were also increased, helping the most vulnerable populations, including the elderly, disabled, and those living with HIV/AIDS. “I want to thank Speaker Ryan for his leadership on this bill, ensuring that our nation’s priorities are funded. I thank Chairman Frelinghuysen and his staff for their tireless work. He is a humble, life-long public servant I am honored to call my Chairman, and most importantly, my friend.” As Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Subcommittee, Diaz-Balart funded the following priorities: $1.5 billion for the Department of Transportation’s TIGER grant program, helping localities fund infrastructure they might not be able to otherwise without federal dollars $1.3 billion for NextGen investments to modernize air traffic control $1 billion in new funding for airport infrastructure grants $250 million for new positive train control (PTC) safety grants $400 million for bus and bus facility maintenance and revitalization $3.3 billion for the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) $1.4 billion for the HOME Investment Partnerships Program, which provides incentives for private sector and non-profit development of affordable housing $22 billion in public housing vouchers, helping needy populations including the elderly, disabled, and persons living with HIV/AIDS As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Diaz-Balart was able to help fund the following priorities: $6.17 million towards combating citrus greening $4 billion to respond to the opioid epidemic $75 million for school safety initiatives $1.1 billion for Student Support and Academic Enrichment Grants, including mental health services, counseling, bullying prevention, violence and prevention strategies $415.5 million for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grants (Byrne-JAG), assisting states, localities, and tribes with funding to support law enforcement, crime prevention, drug treatment, and other important initiatives $75 million in grants for states to improve records used in background checks $410 million to help low-income families attain any needed legal assistance $76.5 million for South Florida Ecosystem Restoration $82 million for continued repair of the Herbert Hoover Dike $2.5 million for the Everglades Headwaters National Wildlife Refuge and Conservation Area $1.9 billion for flood and storm damage reduction projects $280 million for High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program Overall defense funding of $659 billion – biggest year-to-year increase in 15 years An additional $84 million to support U.S. Southern Command (SOUTHCOM) operations off our shores $238 billion for training and readiness of our troops $89.2 for research and development of cutting-edge technology and weapons $23 billion that will support defense shipbuilding industry $14 billion for Customs and Border Protection (CBP), including recruitment and retention efforts and over 300 new hires $7.9 billion for the Transportation Safety Authority (TSA), to help expedite passengers through our nation’s busy airports $10.9 billion for the Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA), including the Disaster Relief Fund and critical grant programs $426.5 million for the Capitol Police, protecting countless visitors, employees and Members of Congress $37 billion for the National Institutes of Health (NIH), supporting continued research efforts on pediatric cancer, Alzheimer’s, rare diseases, and other illnesses $3.6 billion for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program $670 million for Health Emergency Preparedness Cooperative Agreements, funding that was critical to Florida during the Zika crisis $68.8 billion for VA medical care $1.4 billion to support infrastructure for our troops and their families $3.1 billion to help Israel, one of our biggest allies, in its self-defense $8.69 billion for global health programs ###
03.20.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) delivered the following opening statement during a House Appropriations hearing on the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s FY2019 budget request with Secretary Ben Carson.As prepared for delivery: “Today we welcome Secretary Ben Carson from the Department of Housing and Urban Development to discuss the Fiscal Year 2019 budget request. “As I’ve stated in the past, Mr. Secretary, you have one of the most difficult and important jobs in Washington. HUD's mission is to create strong, sustainable, inclusive communities and quality affordable homes for all. Achieving this mission is not easy by any means – HUD administers many housing and community development programs that millions of citizens rely on. “HUD also oversees billions of dollars of disaster recovery grant funds that are critical to helping communities recover after a disaster. “Additionally, Ginnie Mae and the Federal Housing Administration together hold a large portfolio and are critical to the stability and growth of the housing market and the economic health of the Nation. “HUD is requesting a total of $41.24 billion in new budgetary resources in fiscal year 2019, 14 percent below the fiscal year 2017 enacted level. “I would note that this budget request was developed prior to the recent bipartisan budget deal that lifted sequester for two years and raised the cap on both defense and non-defense discretionary spending. “This significant bipartisan breakthrough sets the stage for us to take immediate action to invest in our nation’s future. “Much of this additional non-defense discretionary spending will be targeted towards addressing the needs of our Nation’s infrastructure. “I want to emphasize that this subcommittee considers housing to be a critical part of our infrastructure. For that reason, we will be investing in the housing priorities under the jurisdiction of this subcommittee. “In some respects, the Administration’s budget request for all agencies and departments has been overcome by events due to this caps deal, but we owe you a fair hearing on the budget proposal before us today. “Once again, this year, the budget request proposes to eliminate a number of programs that are important to our mayors, cities, and small towns – the Community Development Block Grant program and the HOME Investment Partnerships program, in particular. “We’ve heard bipartisan support for these programs, and as you know, we continued funding them last year. We may make the same decision this year. “However, we appreciate your concerns and look forward to continuing our work together to ensure that these programs remain cost-effective. “We also understand that the Department has been developing a rent reform package. These reforms will make changes to existing rent rules across HUD’s rental assistance programs and introduce other requirements. “As you know, these reforms are outside of this Committee’s jurisdiction and must be addressed first by the authorizing committee. While the previous Administration did not always submit its specific legislative proposals to the authorizers, it is my understanding that you intend to do so. “I think it is important to consider all new ideas and proposals that make our limited dollars go further, and we look forward to seeing the details of this rent reform proposal when they are finalized. “Mr. Secretary, I look forward to continuing our work together to meet our Nation’s housing and economic development needs – all while being accountable to the taxpayer.” ###
03.19.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the Trump administration announced additional sanctions against the Maduro regime. This latest round of sanctions prohibits any financial transactions involving the regime’s Petro digital currency, and imposes sanctions on four Maduro operatives. “I commend the Trump administration for further tightening sanctions against the Maduro regime by prohibiting financial transactions involving its new digital currency, as well as targeted sanctions against four additional Maduro operatives. Today’s action aims to prevent the Maduro regime and its cronies from circumventing sanctions already in place, and holds accountable more individuals involved in corruption. Shamefully, the Maduro regime’s corruption and incompetence have plunged a once prosperous country into destitution and crisis. Clearly, Maduro has become increasingly desperate to find new sources of revenue, such as through the new Petro digital currency scheme. By tightening sanctions further – closing a potential loophole and targeting four more corrupt cronies – the Trump administration once again demonstrates that it is serious about opposing tyranny and promoting democracy and human rights in Venezuela.” ###
03.15.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, issued the following statement after the collapse of the FIU Pedestrian Bridge. “I am shocked and horrified by the FIU Pedestrian Bridge collapse. I am praying for the victims and families of this tragedy. “I was grateful to have received a phone call from Transportation Secretary Chao, who offered her condolences and utmost support during this time. As the NTSB has announced they will be conducting an investigation, I will fully review their findings so we can address how this happened and how to prevent it from ever happening again.” As Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, Diaz-Balart’s Subcommittee funds the Department of Transportation’s TIGER grant program. The grants are reviewed and awarded by the Department of Transportation; Diaz-Balart’s Subcommittee does not choose grant awardees or the private sector companies they choose to collaborate with for design, construction, and implementation. ###
03.14.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives voted 407-10 to approve H.R. 4909, the STOP School Violence Act. Diaz-Balart is a co-sponsor of this legislation. “Today, the House voted in a strongly bipartisan manner to take concrete steps towards protecting our children in the classroom. The STOP School Violence Act provides students, school personnel, and local law enforcement with resources to prevent violence and identify threats. With proper training and updated security technology, we can allow our children and those who teach and protect them to feel comfortable and give them the voice to speak up when they are concerned about another student. I thank Congressmen Rutherford and Deutch for their leadership on this issue, and look forward to considering other legislation to provide school safety, including Congresswoman Granger’s Securing Children in Schools Act.” Diaz-Balart is also an original co-sponsor of H.R. 5315, the Securing Children in Schools Act, which would provide federal grant money to local school districts that want to install metal detectors. ###
03.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, along with 15 bipartisan members of the Florida delegation, wrote to Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue to request that any disaster relief payments to producers not be subject to strict payment and income limitations typically used by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. If these limitations are implemented, the Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services reports 78% of Florida farms would be ineligible to receive disaster assistance. “The road is far from over for those recovering from the 2017 hurricane season. As Florida’s farmers, ranchers, and growers struggle to get back on their feet, we must do everything we can to ensure they receive all assistance for which they are eligible. Implementing arbitrary restrictions to the supplemental disaster relief recently passed by Congress will hurt our agriculture industry, and severely limit the amount of assistance its members receive. Agriculture producers of all sizes received significant damage from Hurricane Irma, and lifting these restrictions for disaster relief will ensure that everyone receives their fair share.” Last month, the President signed into law legislation that would provide $89.3 billion in supplemental disaster assistance to communities impacted by the 2017 hurricane season and recent wildfires. The legislation included $2.36 billion for disaster assistance to support Florida’s agriculture industry, including its iconic citrus industry that has an estimated $760 million in damages. As a Subcommittee Chairman and a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, Diaz-Balart was instrumental in securing adequate resources to help Florida continue its recovery process.Click here to read the letter. ###
03.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies, and U.S. Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL), a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, released the following statements today after the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) issued a TIGER grant of over $13 million to transform Immokalee’s infrastructure: “I am proud to announce the award of this TIGER grant that will help revitalize Immokalee’s infrastructure. From the installation of streetlights to the construction of bus shelters and sidewalks, the funds from this grant will be utilized to improve the quality of life for Immokalee residents,” said Diaz-Balart. “As Chairman of the Transportation Appropriations Subcommittee, I funded the TIGER program and worked tirelessly to secure this grant for the community. I am grateful to Secretary Chao for recognizing the need in Immokalee. I look forward to continue working with Senator Rubio, County Commissioner Bill McDaniel, and other local leaders in seeing this project through, and am eager for the positive impact the TIGER grant will have on Immokalee residents.” “Today’s announcement by the Department of Transportation is significant news for Immokalee. Having seen firsthand the devastation Hurricane Irma inflicted on southwest Florida, this grant will provide critical resources that will fundamentally transform Immokalee’s damaged infrastructure as residents continue to rebuild and recover,” said Rubio. “As a Senate appropriator, I look forward to continuing to work with members in the Florida delegation, including Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart, who sits on the House Appropriations Committee, to ensure Florida communities receive the federal resources they need." ###
03.02.2018	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), along with Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL), Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), and Congressman Carlos Curbelo, today hosted Permanent Representative of the United States to the United Nations Nikki Haley at Florida International University for a discussion on the current state of affairs in Latin America and the region’s relationship with the United States. Congressman Diaz-Balart issued the following statement after the event. “During her tenure as Permanent Representative of the United States to the United Nations, Ambassador Haley has demonstrated profound leadership in affirming the United States’ commitment to supporting pro-democracy movements and activists while unequivocally condemning the abuses of their oppressors. I will continue working with Ambassador Haley in isolating pariah regimes and standing with freedom’s advocates across the globe. “In the administration’s declared ‘Year of the Americas,’ I thank Ambassador Haley for turning attention to our hemisphere, which faces corruption, narco-trafficking, and human rights challenges. The Castro regime continues its decades-long oppression of the Cuban people, while providing illicit support to other sham regimes in the region, including those in Venezuela and Nicaragua. By promoting democracy, civil society and human rights in our hemisphere, we promote stability and prosperity among our neighbors, and strengthen friendships with allies.” Photos can be attributed to the Office of Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart. ###
02.20.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after President Trump announced he would be directing Attorney General Jeff Sessions to ban bump stocks. “The executive action to ban bump stocks is a welcome announcement. Back in October, I joined my Congressional colleagues in calling for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF) to re-evaluate bump stocks and similar mechanisms, which were approved by the bureau during the Obama administration. This is an important step and we must look at other measures to stop violent acts like those in Las Vegas, or more recently in South Florida.” Click here to read the bipartisan letter from over 70 Members of Congress to the ATF. ###
02.09.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the House Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement after Congress passed the Bipartisan Budget Act. “This bipartisan legislation continues government operations and funds programs that are critical to Americans across the nation. It also invests in our military during a time where we must provide our troops with the proper resources to defend our country, help our allies, and stand up to our adversaries. “I represent parts of Florida that are still rebuilding from Hurricane Irma, and the $89.3 billion supplemental will go a long way in helping these communities recover from storm damage. I am proud to have worked with my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee to ensure my subcommittee provided adequate funding for disaster relief programs, particularly for the Federal Highway Administration Emergency Relief program that repairs our infrastructure and Department of Housing and Urban Development Community Development Block Grant-Disaster Relief program that assists homeowners and local businesses. Florida’s crops, including its iconic citrus groves, were severely impacted, and I am grateful for the funds that will help our farmers get back on their feet. “I congratulate Speaker Ryan and Chairman Frelinghuysen for their tireless leadership, and I look forward to continue working with our colleagues on other vital issues, including the remainder of FY18 funding and finding a permanent, legislative solution for DREAMers who were brought to the United States as young children at no fault of their own.” This two-year budget agreement: Extends funding for Community Health Centers, including 7 federally-funded CHCs in Florida’s 25th District Provides $2 billion in funding over two years for the National Institutes of Health (NIH), including research funding for cancer, Alzheimer's Disease, and other diseases and chronic illness Provides for America’s veterans by helping reduce the maintenance backlog at the Veterans Administration Provides $6 billion over two years to bolster the ongoing fight against opioid addiction and substance abuse $20 billion investment in America’s infrastructure, including rural water and wastewater facilities, innovative capital projects, and surface transportation Includes structural reforms to Medicare The legislation includes $89.3 billion in emergency supplemental appropriations to respond to the 2017 hurricane season and the recent wildfires. As a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, Diaz-Balart helped secure the following funding: $29.828 billion for programs under the jurisdiction of Chairman Diaz-Balart’s Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Subcommittee $114.6 million for the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to support operations and to maintain facilities and equipment $1.374 billion for the Federal Highway Administration’s (FHWA) Emergency Relief Program $330 million for the Federal Transit Administration’s (FTA) Emergency Relief Program $28 billion for the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Community Development Block Grant and Community Development Block Grant Disaster Recovery Program, as well as tenant-based rental assistance $2.36 billion for crop disasters as a result of hurricanes and wildfires $2.7 billion for Hurricane Education Recovery to restart operations at elementary and secondary schools affected by the hurricanes and wildfires, including private schools outside of affected areas that are serving elementary and secondary school students displaced by the hurricanes and wildfires $200 million for fishery disasters causing severe economic harm in coastal communities following Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria as well as disasters declared in 2017 $4.9 billion for Medicaid cap increases for Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands for two years $23.5 billion for the Federal Emergency Management Agency Disaster Relief Fund $17.39 billion for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, including funding to repair damages caused by natural disasters and for constructing flood and storm damage reduction projects $13 million for the Department of Energy to respond to the consequences of Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria, including technical assistance related to electric grids $1.65 billion for the Small Business Administration Disaster Loans Program account, allowing the SBA to make up to $12.2 billion in disaster loans $10.3 million to repair TSA facilities, security equipment, and access to control equipment at airports $835 million to provide for the costs of Coast Guard personnel responding to Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria as well as to repair and strengthen facilities and assets damaged by Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, Maria, and Matthew A provision allowing the President to increase the federal cost share for certain disaster assistance from 75 to 85 percent if recipients have taken steps to make themselves more resilient against disasters $210.6 million for Fish and Wildlife Service Construction to rebuild and repair facilities and other critical agency infrastructure $50 million for National Park Service Historic Preservation Fund to restore historic structures damaged by hurricanes $207.6 million for National Park Service Construction to rebuild and repair facilities and other critical agency infrastructure $200 million for Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) for health recovery response, including: surveillance and abatement of vector-borne, food-borne, water-borne, and other infectious diseases that arise as the result of hurricanes $50 million for National Institutes of Health to provide funding to rebuild research efforts and physical infrastructure $650 million for Head Start for construction and related costs for Head Start centers damaged by the hurricanes or wildfires, and related services for children and families ###
02.02.2018	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after a House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI) majority memo on the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) was declassified and released. “The release of the HPSCI memo today was important for greater transparency and oversight, serving the public interest. FISA collections are part of a uniquely critical program that supports global US national security. The recently passed and signed FISA Amendments Reauthorization Act will help provide some additional important oversight of this program, to prevent abuse and violation of American citizens’ civil liberties. There are thousands of courageous and dedicated men and women who serve the FBI, DoJ, and other federal intelligence agencies, and it is disappointing that the missteps of several high-ranking officials are tarnishing their work.” ###
01.30.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee and member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement after the passage of H.R. 695, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act of 2018. “While we continue to negotiate important issues like government funding and immigration, we cannot keep our military in limbo. By passing today’s legislation, we provide our troops with the robust resources they need to protect American values across the world. The bill ensures our country continues its research and development in the latest defense technology, which is critical during times of global instability. I am proud it also fully funds the 2.4 percent pay raise, allowing our armed forces to support their families. “I thank Speaker Ryan, Chairman Frelinghuysen, and Subcommittee Chairwoman Granger for their leadership on this issue, and look forward to continue working with them on the FY18 funding bills.” ###
01.29.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement after Appropriations Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen announced he would retire at the end of the 115th Congress: “For over two decades, Rodney Frelinghuysen has served the people of New Jersey and our country with honor, distinction, and integrity. His departure will leave a significant void in Congress and on the Appropriations Committee. He embodies the best of what it means to be a public servant, delivering results and advocating for his constituents. I am grateful to Rodney for his loyal friendship and tireless leadership, and I will always admire his commitment to our legislative work and governance. “It has been a true privilege serving with and getting to know Chairman Frelinghuysen. I look forward to continue working with him on seeing through the funding of FY18, and returning to regular order for FY19 as he leads his last round of appropriations bills.” ###
01.25.2018	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) announced that the winner of the 2017 Congressional App Challenge for Florida’s 25th District is VRExperience, an app created by students Diego Landaeta and Diego Mansilla. The students attend Ronald W. Reagan Doral Senior High School in Doral, Florida. They described their app as “a simple walking simulator throughout a pleasant forest. With our app we are trying to open the eye of discovery in science, history and medicine through simulations of real life scenarios.” The team used the Unity Engine and coded the app with C#. The app was highly praised by the judges, an independent panel of local technology and STEM leaders, who rated the submissions anonymously based on a point system. The Congressman also recognized the teams whose apps received the second- and third-highest points in the overall ranking. The winner and runner-ups are as follows: 1st Place: “VRExperience” created by Diego Landaeta and Diego Mansilla from Ronald Reagan High School in Doral (pictured with Congressman Diaz-Balart and teacher Jamie Gant) 2nd Place: “Plant Dex” created by Emilio de Leon, Ted Bliss, Hadrian Gonzalez, and Vanessa Tascon from Jose Marti MAST 6-12 Academy in Hialeah (pictured with Congressman Diaz-Balart), described as “a virtual tour of our school’s native arboretum” to engage and educate users about native tree species. 3rd Place (tied): “Chord Theory” created by Claire Winogrodzki from Naples High School in Naples, which aims to “to help musicians practice and memorize the notes that make up different chords.” 3rd Place (tied): “Dynamic Gestures” created by Anirudh Rahul from Doral Academy in Doral, which aims to “make navigating your Android device both quicker and easier by using a small set of simple gestures that still bring lots of flexibility.” The Congressional App Challenge is a congressional initiative, managed by the Internet Education Foundation [IEF], a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization. It was first established by the Congressional Internet Caucus in 2014, and Co-Chairs Rep. Bob Goodlatte and Rep. Anna G. Eshoo spearheaded the effort. In 2017, the App Challenge had 193 successful App Challenges hosted by Members of Congress, nearly 4,000 student participants, and more than 1,200 original student-created apps submitted. ###
01.25.2018	NAPLES – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) today hosted roundtables in Collier and Hendry Counties to discuss hurricane recovery efforts with local officials and community leaders. “Though many important strides have been made, Southwest Florida continues its recovery from Hurricane Irma. I was glad to invite local officials and community leaders from Collier and Hendry Counties to participate in roundtables to have candid discussions regarding hurricane recovery efforts. Moving forward, it is important to learn what worked, what could be improved for future hurricane seasons, and how the federal government can better assist our community. “It is also important to highlight the urgent need for my Senate colleagues to approve the disaster relief package we have already passed in the House, which will go a long way in helping those still recovering. This conversation does not end today; we must continue to examine this process through its completion, and I am committed to working with our local officials to provide whatever assistance I can.”Photos should be attributed to the Office of Congressman Diaz-Balart. From the Collier County Roundtable: From the Hendry County Roundtable: Last month, the House passed an $81 billion emergency disaster relief package to assist communities affected by natural disasters, including Florida, Texas, California, Louisiana, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The bill awaits consideration in the Senate. As Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, Diaz-Balart was able to secure the following for this supplemental funding: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA): Provides FAA with a total of $114.6 million for facilities damaged by hurricanes in 2017, and for operational expenses. Federal Highway Administration-Emergency Relief Program: $1.37 billion to address infrastructure damage from the 2017 hurricane season. Federal Transit Administration-Public Transportation Emergency Relief Program: Provides $269 million for transit systems affected by Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria, to restore critical transit assets such as buses and shelters, ferry terminals, and rail systems stations. Community Development Block Grants-Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR): Provides $26.1 billion for CDBG-DR to meet the full commitment in this program to address unmet housing, business and infrastructure needs for communities devastated by disasters in 2017, including Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria. $12.5 billion is allocated to address mitigation projects to help communities protect against future natural disasters, and to protect the taxpayer from recurring costs of rebuilding after storms. Also included in the legislation are the following items that will benefit Floridians and Americans across the country and in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands that are still recovering from the 2017 Hurricane Season and recent wildfires in California: $2.6 billion for agriculture assistance to support Florida’s agriculture industry, including the citrus industry that has an estimated $760 million in damages alone. $2.9 billion to assist schools in Florida and elsewhere that accepted students from Puerto Rico in the wake of Hurricane Maria. $12.1 billion for repairs to existing Army Corps of Engineers projects that were damaged during the storm, including those projects in Everglades National Park. $1.66 billion to support the Small Business Administration’s disaster loan program, allowing the agency to provide up to $12.2 billion in disaster loans. $616 million for repairs, cleanup, and recovery at Fish and Wildlife, National Parks, US Geological Service, EPA, and Forest Service, including Everglades National Park. ###
01.25.2018	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement regarding immigration: “It is clear that the President is focused on finding a permanent solution for these 1.8 million young adults who were brought to the United States at no fault of their own, as well as securing the border. This administration is putting forward a serious proposal to both of these issues, something that cannot be said of previous administrations. I will continue working with my congressional colleagues and the White House on a legislative solution that will pass both chambers and be quickly signed into law.” For over a decade, Diaz-Balart has been a leader on immigration in Congress. He continues to work with colleagues from both sides of the aisle and both chambers to find a solution to our country’s broken immigration system. ###
01.19.2018	Washington, DC – Republican Main Street Caucus (“Main Street”) Chairman U.S. Rep. Rodney Davis (R-Ill.) announced today that U.S. Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-Fla.) was elected to serve as the third co-chair, filling the vacancy left by U.S. Rep. Pat Tiberi's (R-Ohio) resignation from Congress. Diaz-Balart will serve alongside co-chairs U.S. Reps. Jeff Denham (R-Calif.) and Fred Upton (R-MI). Main Street, which launched in September of 2017, serves as a formal caucus for more than 70 members who believe in pragmatic governing and are dedicated to strong, conservative principles related to economic and national security policy. "I cannot thank Pat enough for his leadership and years of service to his constituents and our caucus. Although we are losing a friend and key member of our caucus, we are excited about the new addition of Mario Diaz-Balart to the leadership team of Main Street," Davis said. "Mario brings a long history of the kind of common sense governing we need and a new voice from the Appropriations Committee to the Main Street leadership table. With Mario's help, we are excited to deliver results our constituents are counting on, including crafting an infrastructure plan that builds on the momentum of tax reform and will keep our economy growing" "I am humbled to join Congressmen Davis, Denham, and Upton on Main Street’s leadership team," said Diaz-Balart. "Members of this group are some of the most respected and effective Members of Congress and are involved in every important piece of legislation on Capitol Hill. It is a privilege to receive their support. I look forward to working with our colleagues to find commonsense solutions that will better the lives of Americans across the country." Co-chairs Denham and Upton also praised Diaz-Balart's addition to Main Street leadership. “Mario is a good friend and a champion of main street Americans as well as small business,” said Denham. “He is the right choice to promote commonsense reforms and policies to benefit the backbone of America.” “I’m greatly looking forward to serving alongside Mario Diaz-Balart in his new role," said Upton. "Mario and I have known each other for years and I’ve always relied on his keen instincts and commitment to governing and delivering results. He’s a natural leader who will serve our Caucus with honor. I look forward to working with Mario, and the entire caucus, as we continue the push from our successful tax reform efforts so we can keep job and economic growth speeding along.” ###
01.09.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after he participated in a bipartisan, bicameral meeting with President Trump at the White House to discuss immigration. “There is strong, bipartisan support to address the issue of these young individuals who were brought to the United States at no fault of their own. It is important to continue this conversation to find a commonsense solution that secures our border and offers DACA beneficiaries a fair and permanent solution so they may continue contributing to our great nation.” For over a decade, Diaz-Balart has been a leader on immigration in Congress. He continues to work with colleagues from both sides of the aisle and both chambers to find a solution to our country’s broken immigration system. ###
01.08.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the Department of Homeland Security announced they would be ending Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Salvadoran nationals living in the United States after an 18 month phase out period. “I am in strong disagreement with the Administration’s decision to terminate Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Salvadoran nationals who reside in the United States. These innocent people fled their home country after a disastrous earthquake, and while living conditions may have slightly improved, El Salvador now faces a significant problem with drug trafficking, gangs, and crime. Since 2001, these people have established themselves in the United States, making countless contributions to our society and our local communities. It would be devastating to send them home after they have created a humble living for themselves and their families. As I did with the decisions to end TPS for Haitian, Nicaraguan, and Honduran nationals who reside in the United States, I strongly urge the Administration to reconsider this decision.” Diaz-Balart has been a longtime advocate for extending TPS for Salvadoran, Haitian, Nicaraguan, and Honduran nationals residing in the United States. He is a co-sponsor of the ESPERER Act, bipartisan legislation that would grant legal permanent resident status to eligible migrants that received TPS protection prior to January 13, 2011. ###
01.05.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the Treasury Department announced additional targeted sanctions against members of the Maduro regime in Venezuela. “I commend President Trump and his administration for once again imposing sanctions on corrupt members of the Venezuelan military. While people in oil-rich Venezuela starve, the Maduro regime has misused and corrupted the military, which he tasked with controlling food distribution. Now, food trafficking is rampant and shelves are bare. The oppressive Maduro dictatorship has failed the Venezuelan people by every measure, with skyrocketing inflation, crime, hunger, corruption, and subversion of civil society and democratic institutions. “The United States Congress and President Trump stand in firm solidarity with the struggling Venezuelan people. We must continue to impose tough consequences against those who perpetrate corruption and oppression in Venezuela.” ###
12.21.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement after the passage of H.R. 1370, Further Continuing Resolution. “Today, I joined my colleagues in voting for the continuing resolution that will keep the government open. As we continue to negotiate our appropriations bills across the aisle and with our Senate colleagues, we must remember how important it is to fund the government. Without today's legislation, our military could not be paid, national parks and monuments would close, and benefits for veterans and pensioners could be delayed. This bill also includes an extension of the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), a healthcare program that is essential to more than 8 million children across the United States. “I thank Speaker Ryan and Chairman Frelinghuysen for this leadership on this legislation, and I look forward to returning to regular order in the new year.” ###
12.21.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, today spoke in support of H.R. 4667, Supplemental Disaster Assistance in the wake of Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria, and the 2017 wildfires, ahead of its passage. Click on the image to watch his remarks, or read below as prepared for delivery. “This bill provides much needed relief and resources to Texas, Florida, the U.S. Virgin Islands, California, and Puerto Rico. I’ve heard a lot in this debate, but let’s be clear: the bill treats the folks in Florida, Texas, Puerto Rico, The U.S. Virgin Islands, and California exactly the same. “Significant portions of my district were hit hard by Hurricane Irma. Communities are still working tirelessly to get back on their feet. Communities like Everglades City, Chokoloskee, Plantation Island, Immokalee and Montura Ranch. This bill help meet our Federal obligations to ensure the full, appropriate Federal commitment is there for long-term recovery “For highways, this bill funds all repairs from the 2017 storms and clears the backlog from prior years. “On the housing side, this bill provides $26.1 billion for Community Development Block Grants. “Of that, $13.6 billion is provided to meet all remaining unmet housing, business, and infrastructure needs for the three hurricanes, including the U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto. The remaining, $12.5 billion is provided for mitigation grants. These grants provide resources to our communities so they can rebuild. “Additionally, I am pleased with the $3.8 billion allocated for the Department of Agriculture. This will go a long way towards helping our farmers and Florida’s agriculture industry, including Florida’s iconic citrus industry. “I strongly urge a yes vote on this important disaster supplemental. I thank Chairman Frelinghuysen for his leadership and courage to bring forward to bring forward a good bill that helps folks across our country and the islands, and treats everyone equally, equitably, and fairly.” As Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, Diaz-Balart was able to secure the following for this supplemental funding: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA): Provides FAA with a total of $114.6 million for facilities damaged by hurricanes in 2017, and for operational expenses. Federal Highway Administration-Emergency Relief Program: $1.37 billion to address infrastructure damage from the 2017 hurricane season. Federal Transit Administration-Public Transportation Emergency Relief Program: Provides $269 million for transit systems affected by Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria, to restore critical transit assets such as buses and shelters, ferry terminals, and rail systems stations. Community Development Block Grants-Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR): Provides $26.1 billion for CDBG-DR to meet the full commitment in this program to address unmet housing, business and infrastructure needs for communities devastated by disasters in 2017, including Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria. $12.5 billion is allocated to address mitigation projects to help communities protect against future natural disasters, and to protect the taxpayer from recurring costs of rebuilding after storms. Also included in the legislation are the following items that will benefit Floridians and Americans across the country and in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands that are still recovering from the 2017 Hurricane Season and recent wildfires in California: $2.6 billion for agriculture assistance to support Florida’s agriculture industry, including the citrus industry that has an estimated $760 million in damages alone. $2.9 billion to assist schools in Florida and elsewhere that accepted students from Puerto Rico in the wake of Hurricane Maria. $12.1 billion for repairs to existing Army Corps of Engineers projects that were damaged during the storm, including those projects in Everglades National Park. $1.66 billion to support the Small Business Administration’s disaster loan program, allowing the agency to provide up to $12.2 billion in disaster loans. $616 million for repairs, cleanup, and recovery at Fish and Wildlife, National Parks, US Geological Service, EPA, and Forest Service, including Everglades National Park. ###
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), a senior member of the House Appropriations and Budget Committees, issued the following statement after the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act Conference Report. “It has been over 30 years since our country has seen significant tax reform. Today we will make history and change that. I am proud to stand with my colleagues in voting for a bill that will allow Americans to keep more of what they earn. The average middle class family of four will see a savings of more than $2,000, a substantial amount that will go a long way as many Floridians continue to rebuild and recover from hurricane season. Americans should be able to save more of their hard-earned tax dollars, and this legislation does just that. Tax reform will incentivize the economy, which will allow folks to keep their jobs, increase wages, and create more opportunities in the American job market. “I congratulate Speaker Ryan and Chairman Brady and their staffs for their tireless efforts to pass tax reform.” The median income in Florida’s 25th district, which includes parts of Miami-Dade and Collier Counties, as well as Hendry County, is $45,262.84Under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: A single filer with an annual income of $40,000 would see an approximate savings of $804.20.* A single filer with two children and an annual income of $40,000 would see an approximate savings of $759.00.* A married couple filing jointly with two children and an annual income of $40,000 would pay $0 in federal taxes.* A single filer with an annual income of $45,000 would see an approximate savings of $817.20.* A single filer with two children and an annual income of $45,000 would pay $0 in federal taxes due to the increased Child Tax Credit and see an approximate savings of $1,509.00.* A married couple filing jointly with two kids and an annual income of $45,000 would pay $0 in federal taxes.* A single filer with an annual income of $75,000 would see an approximate savings of $2,089.00.* A single filer with two children an annual income of $75,000 would see an approximate savings of $2,064.00.* A married couple filing jointly with two children and an annual income of $75,000 would see a savings of $2,224.00.* *These estimates are approximate, based on the aforementioned scenarios, and may vary based on one’s circumstances and deductions. ###
12.18.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement in response to the Amtrak rail incident outside of DuPont, Washington. The Federal Railroad Administration and the National Transportation Safety Board fall under Diaz-Balart’s committee jurisdiction. “The reports and photos released from this morning’s derailment are heart wrenching and extremely concerning. What should have been a momentous occasion for this route’s inaugural ride turned into a nightmarish situation for passengers, those traveling in the area, and their families. Rail safety remains one of my top priorities as Chairman of the Transportation Appropriations Subcommittee. I will work with my Subcommittee and Federal Railroad Administration officials to ensure that a thorough investigation is conducted.” ###
12.18.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD) Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement after additional supplemental disaster relief was introduced. Diaz-Balart has been a strong advocate for disaster relief funding in response to the 2017 Hurricane Season and the California wildfires. As Chair of the THUD appropriations Subcommittee, he has hosted several roundtables and briefings on disaster relief programs in the Departments of Transportation and Housing and Urban Development, including the Community Development Block Grant-Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR) program. “Immediate disaster assistance is the crucial first-step in helping communities recover after natural disasters. However, additional assistance is required to support the long-term recovery efforts of states and localities. I have seen firsthand the damage areas like Everglades City, Chokoloskee, and Immokalee have suffered as a result of Hurricane Irma, and they will need significant resources to fully recover. Funding from programs like CDBG-DR are essential to cover the unmet needs the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the Small Business Administration (SBA) were not able to address. Within this account is a new mitigation set-aside that will help prepare our communities for future natural disasters, of which Florida will receive over $200 million. Resilient construction is a key step to preparing our homes for natural disasters, and this mitigation investment is important to minimizing expenses in the future. I am grateful for the opportunity to be able to assist Florida and our country as our hometowns rebuild from the storms, and we must ensure we provide them with the adequate resources they deserve.” As Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, Diaz-Balart was able to secure the following for this supplemental funding: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA): Provides FAA with a total of $114.6 million for facilities damaged by hurricanes in 2017, and for operational expenses. Federal Highway Administration-Emergency Relief Program: $1.37 billion to address infrastructure damage from the 2017 hurricane season. Federal Transit Administration-Public Transportation Emergency Relief Program: Provides $269 million for transit systems affected by Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria, to restore critical transit assets such as buses and shelters, ferry terminals, and rail systems stations. Community Development Block Grants-Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR): Provides $26.1 billion for CDBG-DR to meet the full commitment in this program to address unmet housing, business and infrastructure needs for communities devastated by disasters in 2017, including Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria. $12.5 billion is allocated to address mitigation projects to help communities protect against future natural disasters, and to protect the taxpayer from recurring costs of rebuilding after storms. Also included in the legislation are the following items that will benefit Floridians and Americans across the country and in Puerto Rico that are still recovering from the 2017 Hurricane Season and recent wildfires in California: $2.6 billion for agriculture assistance to support Florida’s agriculture industry, including the citrus industry that has an estimated $760 million in damages alone. $2.9 billion to assist schools in Florida and elsewhere that accepted students from Puerto Rico in the wake of Hurricane Maria. $12.1 billion for repairs to existing Army Corps of Engineers projects that were damaged during the storm, including those projects in Everglades National Park. $1.66 billion to support the Small Business Administration’s disaster loan program, allowing the agency to provide up to $12.2 billion in disaster loans. $616.4 million for repairs, clean-up, and recovery at national parks such as Everglades and Dry Tortugas National Parks. ###
12.15.2017	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement after the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) announced a federal grant of $12.3 million dollars for the state of Florida. “I am pleased FEMA recognizes Florida’s need for additional resources. These funds will reimburse the state for technical assistance, mitigation projects, the purchasing of equipment, and staff salaries for projects related to hurricane recovery efforts. Recovery is a difficult process, and the federal government must continue to assist our local communities in a time of need. “I want to thank FEMA Administrator Long for being receptive to the conversations we’ve had on Capitol Hill and on the ground in Florida with his staff. I look forward to continue working with him and my congressional colleagues to assess the recovery timeline and secure additional support to complete the process.” Congressman Diaz-Balart joined Florida colleagues in numerous letters to the Administration regarding hurricane relief efforts, including to then-DHS Acting Secretary Elaine Duke and FEMA Administrator Brock Long. ###
12.15.2017	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Subcommittee, issued the following statement after the Department of Transportation (DOT) announced the approval of the second phase of Florida’s Brightline rail system. “As Chairman of the Transportation Appropriations Subcommittee, I am extremely supportive of the advancement of new transit options, and am anxious to see the positive impact Brightline will have on our state's economy. Brightline's first phase, which is set to begin full service in the coming days, will showcase an alternative and efficient mode of travel for Floridians and visitors alike. Connecting South and Central Florida passengers via rail offers expanded business and leisure opportunities, and I am glad that DOT acknowledges the potential in the future of our state's transit. “I thank Transportation Secretary Chao and Federal Railroad Administration Acting Administrator Hall for their assistance with this project. Their leadership is appreciated and will be essential to Brightline’s completion.” ###
12.13.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee today hosted a roundtable on the Federal Transit Administration (FTA), and was joined by Acting Administrator K. Jane Williams and Executive Director Matthew Welbes. “I was pleased to welcome Federal Transit Administration Acting Administrator Williams and Executive Director Welbes to discuss transit and numerous FTA programs, including the Capital Investment Grant (CIG) program. CIG is a key component in the development of local infrastructure plans, such as Miami-Dade County's SMART plan. FTA Acting Administrator Williams acknowledged how difficult these grants can be. As Chairman of the Transportation Appropriations Subcommittee, I look forward to helping our nation and community address local infrastructure challenges.” Photo should be attributed to the Office of Congressman Diaz-Balart. ###
12.13.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the passage of H.R. 1638, the Iranian Leadership Asset Transparency Act. “This legislation requires the Treasury Department to report the Iranian regime's assets, creating an accessible, public database that allows companies to make sound decisions when choosing business partners. Businesses around the world have been unknowingly fueling Iran's regime of terror and aggression through deals that benefit the mullahs. The United States has made it clear it will not support acts of violence and terrorism. This bill provides transparency to help ensure American dollars are not propping up the regime and its illicit activities.” ###
12.07.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the passage of H.R. 2658, the Venezuelan Humanitarian Assistance and Defense of Democratic Governance Act, and H.Res. 259, expressing concern and condemnation over the political, economic, social, and humanitarian crisis in Venezuela. “The Maduro regime continues to sink a once prosperous country into one laden with oppression, food shortages, crime, and inflation. On several occasions, the United States Congress has made a commitment to help the people of Venezuela, and these bills emphasize that commitment by furthering sanctions on corrupt regime officials, providing much needed humanitarian aid, defending human rights, and ‘working with the Organization of American States to ensure international observation that contributes to free and transparent electoral processes.’ For almost two decades, this country has suffered under the Chavista and Maduro regimes, and the United States stands firm in its promise to the Venezuelan people.” ###
12.07.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) today spoke in support of H.J. Res. 123, the Continuing Appropriations Act, ahead of its passage. Click on the image to watch his remarks, or read below as prepared for delivery. As prepared for delivery: “This is just a short-term continuing resolution. It is a clean date extension. This CR will give us an opportunity to continue to move forward – quickly – toward final appropriations bills. “It is important to note that on our Transportation and Housing bill – THUD – we considered 22 amendments in Committee, and 39 amendments on the floor. It has been an open and fair process the whole way. “We can, and must, move quickly to finish the job, and conference all 12 of these bills. But in the meantime, we must keep the government open and funded. This is especially the case now that our communities are pulling together to recover from three devastating hurricanes, as well as the thousands of families threatened by raging wildfires in California. “We can’t take the risk of short-changing our first responders and our military, given the natural disasters at home and the threats from our adversaries abroad. A vote against this CR would do just that. “For transportation and housing, this CR will support ongoing transportation safety missions, air traffic control, and housing for vulnerable citizens, including our veterans. “I strongly urge a yes vote on this CR. We cannot let these folks down. We cannot shut down the federal government. I thank Chairman Frelinghuysen for his steadfast leadership.” ###
12.06.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after President Trump announced the United States would recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and begin the process of relocating the U.S. Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. “I am pleased by President Trump's bold decision to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. It is well past time that our embassy is moved to its rightful home. Though many may be upset with the decision, or even use this as an excuse to incite violence, we must remember that Jerusalem is the country’s true capital. I commend the administration for its resolute commitment to our allies.” ###
12.05.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the passage of H.R. 1164, the Taylor Force Act. Diaz-Balart is a co-sponsor of the legislation. “While the Palestinian Authority continues to incentivize violence and aggression against Israeli and U.S. citizens, the House of Representatives has made it clear it will not tolerate these activities. Israel continues to be the best partner for peace, freedom, and democracy in the Middle East, and I am a proud ally of Israel. I am committed to ensuring peace in the region, and I believe this bill will help us achieve that goal by requiring the Palestinian Authority to commit to ending this violence.” ###
12.01.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, held a subcommittee hearing on the Community Development Block Grant-Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR) supplemental request, with Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development Neal Rackleff serving as a witness. “I welcomed this week’s announcement of $616 million in CDBG-DR funds that were released to Florida. Our state remains in recovery mode after Hurricane Irma, and these funds will help continue that process. For some areas, rebuilding will be a long and difficult road, but they are more than ready for the task at hand. I look forward to continue working with HUD to ensure Florida’s needs are met through the end of the recovery process.” Earlier this week, Diaz-Balart announced that HUD would be releasing $616 million to the state of Florida as part of the CDBG-DR program. He also hosted an informational briefing on the program, educating colleagues on the importance of CDBG-DR in recovery efforts after natural disasters. Photos should be attributed to the Office of Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart. ###
11.30.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, held a subcommittee hearing on the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) Emergency Relief, with FHWA Deputy Administrator Brandye Hendrickson and FHWA Executive Director Walter Waidelich serving as witnesses. “I was glad to welcome Ms. Hendrickson and Mr. Waidelich to discuss FHWA’s additional funding request for hurricane recovery efforts. Many roads and bridges were damaged during the 2017 Hurricane season, and we must rebuild and repair them in a timely manner. Ensuring safe and efficient infrastructure is one of my top priorities as Chairman of this Subcommittee. I'll continue to work with FHWA leaders and my congressional colleagues to provide the necessary resources to our communities so they can fully recover from these natural disasters.” Congressman Diaz-Balart has hosted a series of informational briefings for Appropriations members on the numerous programs within the Departments of Transportation and Housing and Urban Development. Included in this series was a briefing on FHWA Emergency Relief, and how critical these programs are to the recovery process. Photos should be attributed to the Office of Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart. ###
11.30.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement marking the one year anniversary that Cuban activist Dr. Eduardo Cardet was brutally and arbitrarily arrested. Cardet remains imprisoned by the Castro regime. “Today marks one year since the latest disgraceful arrest of Cuban activist Dr. Eduardo Cardet. Dr. Cardet is a leader within Cuba’s Christian Liberation Movement (MCL) and a physician who worked in a health center in Velasco until he was expelled due to his pro-democracy activities. According to accounts provided by MCL members, Dr. Cardet suffered severe beatings at the time of his arrest and during his subsequent detention. Human rights organizations such as Amnesty International, Freedom House, and Directorio Democratico Cubano have condemned his imprisonment. “Dr. Cardet’s imprisonment highlights the continued repression suffered by those who dare to express opposition to the Castro regime. Prior to an important JusticeCuba event in Washington, D.C. earlier this month, which I attended, the Castro regime prohibited Jorge Luis Garcia Perez Antunez from leaving Cuba to personally attest to lawmakers the brutal repression that he has faced. Just this month, dozens of the renowned Ladies in White, who march in support of political prisoners and their families, were detained on Sundays while on their way to Mass. “The repression must end, and innocent activists such as Dr. Cardet, Antunez, and the Ladies in White must no longer endure these egregious human rights abuses simply for expressing opposition to tyranny.” ###
11.30.2017	WASHINGTON – El congresista Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) hizo la siguiente declaración para recordar que ya ha pasado un año desde la detención brutal y arbitraria del activista cubano Dr. Eduardo Cardet, quien sigue encarcelado por el régimen castrocomunista. “Hoy se cumple un año desde el arresto del Dr. Eduardo Cardet, un líder del Movimiento Cristiano de Liberación (MCL) y médico expulsado de su centro de salud por intentar promover la democracia. Según el MCL, el Dr. Cardet ha sido brutalmente golpeado. Organizaciones de DDHH como Amnistía Internacional, Freedom House y el Directorio Democrático Cubano han condenado su encarcelamiento. “Por si alguien lo dudaba, el encarcelamiento de Cardet demuestra que el régimen, que no ha dejado de reprimir en casi sesenta años, no tiene la menor intención de cambiar ahora. Seguirá golpeando, encarcelando, torturando o asesinando a cualquiera que se le oponga. Así, lo mismo mantiene a Cardet en prisión por trabajar por la democracia, como prohíbe la salida de Jorge Luis García Pérez ‘Antúnez’ por denunciar al régimen en foros internacionales, o golpea a las Damas de Blanco por manifestarse silenciosamente en contra del encarcelamiento injusto de sus familiares. “Es intolerable que el régimen siga ensañándose, no sólo con activistas valientes como el Dr. Cardet, Antúnez y las Damas de Blanco, sino con cualquier cubano que se oponga a su tiranía. Estos crímenes no quedarán impunes”. ###
11.29.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement regarding the Office of Management and Budget’s most recent supplemental funding request for natural disaster response and recovery. “OMB's supplemental request in response to the recent hurricanes is grossly inadequate. Florida's agriculture industry took a severe hit; initial estimates from state agencies total over $2.5 billion in economic impact. The citrus industry, the heart of our state's economy, will require significant federal support after an estimated $760 million in damage. The supplemental request simply does not provide the assistance that Florida’s farmers, producers, and growers need and deserve. I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure that adequate supplemental funding is delivered, which this request clearly does not achieve.” ###
11.28.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement after the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) released $615,922,000 to the state of Florida as part of the Community Development Block Grant-Disaster Recovery Program (CDBG-DR). "I am glad I was able to work with HUD Secretary Carson and my congressional colleagues to secure these funds for Florida. Parts of the Sunshine State remain in recovery from the 2017 Hurricane Season, and these funds will help Floridians in the midst of that process. I will continue to work with Secretary Carson and my colleagues to ensure we provide adequate resources to address the broad range of recovery needs for our state, including housing, economic recovery, and infrastructure repair.” In addition to his collaboration with HUD Secretary Carson and congressional leaders, Congressman Diaz-Balart has hosted a series of informational briefings for Appropriations members on the numerous programs within the Departments of Transportation and Housing and Urban Development. Included in this series was a briefing on the CBDG-DR program, educating colleagues on the importance of this program in recovery efforts after natural disasters. He is also scheduled host a hearing this coming Friday, December 1 with HUD Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development Neal Rackleff regarding the agency’s supplemental request. ###
11.20.2017	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the Department of Homeland Security announced they would be ending Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Haitian nationals living in the United States after an 18 month phase-out period. “Similar to my disagreement with the decision to end TPS for Nicaraguan nationals, I am strongly opposed to and disagree with the decision to end TPS for Haitian nationals living in the United States. These individuals experienced severe loss and suffering as a result of the 2010 earthquake, and forcing them to leave the United States would be detrimental. Almost eight years later, Haiti remains in total disarray and still requires much rebuilding. These individuals are established, respected members of our communities who have made significant contributions, and I urge the administration to reconsider its decision regarding Haitian and Nicaraguan nationals.” ###
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) issued the following statement after he and Senator Bill Nelson (D-FL) met with Department of Homeland Security Acting Secretary Elaine Duke. “I am glad I was able to meet with Acting Secretary Duke to continue advocating for Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Haitian nationals currently residing in the United States. Though we are approaching the eighth anniversary of the catastrophic earthquake, conditions on the island remain difficult. The United States was a place of comfort and solace for so many Haitians in the wake of the devastation, and forcing them to return to Haiti in its current state would be counterproductive. I’ll continue to work with Senator Nelson and our Florida delegation colleagues to help those who currently benefit from TPS.” ###
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), senior member of the Appropriations and Budget Committees, issued the following statement after the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. “Today, the House of Representatives fulfilled its promise to the American people by passing pro-growth tax reform. Filing your taxes shouldn't be an arduous and burdensome task; this legislation creates a simpler, fairer tax code for individuals, protecting their hard-earned dollars. American families deserve a tax code that allows them to keep more of what they make; for Floridians, that means keeping $1,945 more of their wages. It also creates more than 50,000 new jobs in the Sunshine State, encouraging business owners and revitalizing the job market. “Our tax code is in serious need of an upgrade, and I am proud to have worked with my colleagues to accomplish this. I congratulate Speaker Ryan and Chairman Brady on the bill’s passage, and I applaud their resolute commitment to tax reform.” As the Senate continues to work through its own version of tax reform legislation, both chambers will come together to negotiate differences for a final product. ###
11.09.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the Treasury Department announced additional targeted sanctions against members of the Maduro regime in Venezuela. “I once again commend President Trump for his strong stand against the oppressive Maduro regime. With today's sanctions, additional individuals that participate in the regime's corruption of the electoral process and who engage in censorship are held accountable. The Maduro regime has failed the people in every conceivable way. The economy is in shambles, democracy and basic liberties are under assault, and government institutions have been corrupted. I am proud that the United States continues to stand in solidarity with the people of Venezuela as they struggle to restore freedom to their once prosperous and democratic country.” ###
11.08.2017	WASHINGTON – El congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (FL-25) emitió la siguiente declaración después de que la administración Trump anunciara nuevas regulaciones sobre Cuba. “La intención del Presidente en su anuncio del 16 de junio de 2017 sobre Cuba fue fortalecer las sanciones y prohibir las transacciones financieras con el régimen cubano. Las regulaciones anunciadas hoy incluyen algunos pasos positivos. Estoy decepcionado, sin embargo, de que las regulaciones no implementan completamente las órdenes del presidente. Está claro que personas dentro de la burocracia que apoyan la política de la administración anterior hacia Cuba siguen socavando al presidente Trump. “Seguiré trabajando con el Presidente para asegurar que su política hacia Cuba se implemente por completo y que las regulaciones sean totalmente consistentes con sus intenciones, en contraste con las regulaciones anunciadas hoy. Espero que el presidente Trump no permita que burócratas de Washington impidan la implementación de su política en apoyo de las aspiraciones democráticas del pueblo cubano”. ###
11.08.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the Trump administration announced new Cuba regulations. “The intent of the President’s June 16, 2017 announcement on Cuba was to tighten sanctions and prohibit financial transactions with the Cuban military. Today’s announced regulations include some positive first steps. I am disappointed, however, that the regulations do not fully implement what the President ordered. It is clear that individuals within the bureaucracy who support the former administration’s Cuba policy continue to undermine President Trump. “I look forward to working with the President to ensure that his policy is fully implemented, and that the regulations are entirely consistent with his intent, unlike the ones announced today. I trust that President Trump will not allow Washington bureaucrats to stand in the way of his directive to support the Cuban people’s democratic aspirations.” ###
11.07.2017	WASHINGTON – El congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (FL-25) hizo la siguiente declaración sobre la decisión del Departamento de Seguridad Doméstica de Estados Unidos de eliminar el Estatus de Protección Temporal "TPS" para ciudadanos nicaragüenses que viven en Estados Unidos. “Me causa profundo dolor y estoy en fuerte desacuerdo con la decisión de eliminar el Estatus de Protección Temporal "TPS" para los ciudadanos nicaragüenses que viven en Estados Unidos. Ellos son individuos trabajadores con raíces importantes en este país que han contribuido a nuestra sociedad y economías locales. Mientras sigo comprometido en trabajar con mis colegas para encontrar una solución legislativa permanente, insto a la administración a extender el TPS para los nacionales haitianos, hondureños y salvadoreños, y exhorto a que reconsidere seriamente la decisión con respecto a los ciudadanos nicaragüenses.”. ###
11.07.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the Department of Homeland Security announced they would be ending Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Nicaraguan nationals living in the United States after a 12 month phase out period. “I am deeply pained by and strongly disagree with the decision to phase out the Temporary Protected Status for Nicaraguan nationals living in the United States. They are hardworking individuals who have substantial roots in this country and have made contributions to our society and local economies. With the temporary extension of this program, we also learn of its eventual end. While I remain committed to working with my colleagues to find a permanent, legislative solution, I urge the administration to extend TPS for Haitian, Honduran, and Salvadoran nationals, and to seriously reconsider the decision regarding Nicaraguan nationals.” ###
11.07.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after Congressman Frank LoBiondo (NJ-02) announced he would not seek re-election. “Frank LoBiondo has tirelessly worked for New Jersey residents for over three decades. I had the distinct pleasure of getting to know him through our work on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee to keep folks moving efficiently and effectively in our respective communities and across the country. He is a humble man of principle, and a loyal person I am glad to count among my friends. I wish Frank and his wife Tina the best on this next chapter in their lives.” ###
11.06.2017	MIAMI – Today, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) honored two local veterans for their service in the United States Armed Forces. The Congressional Veteran Commendation is a nominations-based program designed to recognize the Florida’s 25th Congressional District. The honorees, listed below, will be interviewed and their wartime collections will be added to the Veterans History Project, sponsored by the Library of Congress. Sergeant James Bradley Holmes – United States Air Force, Naples Florida Specialist 5 Florence N. Holmes – United States Army, Naples, Florida Photos of the Congressman with Sergeant Holmes and Specialist-5 Holmes should be attributed to the Office of Congressman Diaz-Balart. ###
11.03.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, today hosted a roundtable on the Federal Highway Administration’s Emergency Relief program. This roundtable is part of a series Diaz-Balart is hosting on programs offered by the Departments of Transportation and Housing and Urban Development, including those related to disaster relief and recovery. “As Florida and other communities continue to recover from Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria, it is important to educate Members of Congress on vital programs like the Federal Highway Administration's Emergency Relief program. Safe roads are a critical component in the aftermath of a natural disaster, and this program provides the federal resources to repair damaged infrastructure. From taking our kids to school to getting trucks and trailers back on the road, the Emergency Relief program plays an important role in the rebuilding process. As THUD Chairman, I'll continue to work with my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee to sustain these essential programs that get our families and communities up and running after natural disasters.”Photos should be attributed to the Office of Congressman Diaz-Balart ###
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), senior member of the House Budget and Appropriations Committees, issued the following statement after House Republicans introduced the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. “Today, House Republicans introduced landmark legislation that would overhaul the tax code. Our current tax code is over 70,000 pages long. It is burdensome, excessive, weighs down our economy, and hurts taxpayers' wallets. This bill will create a simpler, fairer tax code, putting our country on a path of growth and prosperity. Serious tax reform will strengthen the economy, encourage the job market, empower business owners, and allow Americans to keep more of what they earn while increasing their wages. The tax code should work for the American people, not the other way around. "I am grateful to Speaker Ryan and Ways and Means Chairman Brady for their leadership. Crafting this legislation hasn't been easy, but they, along with our Republican Conference, have been tireless in their efforts to draft legislation that will benefit every American.” ###
11.01.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement in response to U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley's opposition to the U.N. General Assembly resolution that called for an end to the U.S. embargo against Cuba. “I applaud Ambassador Haley for her strong leadership in opposing the UN resolution to end sanctions against the Castro regime. The Trump administration has made it abundantly clear that it will not tolerate oppressive dictatorships, and Ambassador Haley’s principled explanation reflects that policy. The Castro regime has a long history of brutal repression, arbitrary arrests, and torture. It thwarts key U.S. interests across the globe and assists rogue regimes and other adversaries. She demonstrated the administration's profound moral clarity when she declared that the United States will stand with the Cuban people in opposing the Castro regime's oppression. I commend Ambassador Haley and the Trump administration for standing on principle and in unwavering solidarity with the Cuban people.” ###
10.27.2017	MIAMI – Today, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), founder and co-chairman of the Everglades Caucus, participated in a House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee roundtable discussion at PortMiami, led by Chairman Bill Shuster and Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee Chairman Garret Graves. Representatives Carlos Curbelo (FL-26), Lois Frankel, (FL-21), Brian Mast (FL-18), Dan Webster (FL-11), and Frederica Wilson (FL-24), and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Jacksonville District Commander Colonel Jason Kirk and Deputy District Commander Lieutenant Colonel Jennifer Reynolds also participated in the roundtable to express Florida’s needs for the 2018 Water Resources and Development Act (WRDA). “I was pleased to join Transportation and Infrastructure Chairman Shuster, Subcommittee Chairman Graves, and my Florida delegation colleagues to discuss the upcoming WRDA bill. This important piece of legislation has authorized critical Everglades restoration projects, including the Central Everglades Planning Project and the Picayune Strand. It has also authorized much needed upgrades and expansions to PortMiami and Port Everglades. Because of these projects, we are able to restore and protect the Everglades for future generations, as well as provide our ports with adequate resources to fit the needs of our growing economy. This roundtable is just the beginning of the process, but I appreciate that the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee recognizes how important this bill is to Florida. “I thank Chairman Shuster for his leadership throughout the years on ensuring WRDA properly served our community. I remain committed to working with Speaker Ryan, Chairman Shuster, and Subcommittee Chairman Graves to ensure the 2018 WRDA bill reflects Florida’s infrastructure needs.” Photo should be attributed to the office of Congressman Diaz-Balart.
10.27.2017	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), senior member of the House Budget and Appropriations Committees, released the following statement after the Bureau of Economic Analysis released its Gross Domestic Product (GDP) report for the third quarter of 2017. “I'm very encouraged by this quarter's GDP report. After my district and many other communities across the country were battered by Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Jose, these storms proved to be no match for the American spirit and our strengthening economy. “This report clearly reinforces the economic policies of this Administration and Congress, including the curtailing of excessive and burdensome regulations. In the last 10 months, we have seen our economy steadily climb, but in order to continue that growth, we must pass tax reform. I'm looking forward to working with Speaker Ryan, Ways and Means Chairman Brady, and my colleagues to have a productive discussion on the key components of tax reform and how it'll positively impact the job market, our families, and the American economy.” ###
10.26.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), senior member of the House Budget and Appropriations Committees, spoke in support of the fiscal year 2018 Budget Resolution. The legislation, which has passed in both the House and Senate, opens the door for tax reform. Click the image to watch the Congressman’s remarks. As prepared for delivery: “In our current fiscal environment, the CBO projects that the growth of our economy will be 2 percent or less for the next decade. I’m reminded of what a good friend and Democratic colleague in the Budget Committee said one day, that ‘3 percent growth that’s just a dream, that’s unrealistic.’ And yet, before the storms hit, what did we see as far as our economic growth in the country? 3.1 percent economic growth, something that one of our Democratic colleagues said was a pipe dream. And this is in large part because of the excessive regulations that have been curtailed by both the Administration and by Congress. But to keep that momentum, we need to pass tax reform. It will lead to a sustained, strong economy. It will lower the tax burden to our families. It will lead to increased wages for families, for the middle class, for individuals, for the first time in such a long time, allowing the American people to keep more of their hard-earned money. It will make small, medium, and large-sized businesses more competitive, so they can create millions of additional jobs here in the United States. This legislation will allow us to do real tax reform to get the economy going, to keep the economy growing, to get the American people working again. This is an essential part, so I would urge for everyone’s support.” ###
10.17.2017	MIAMI – Today, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, welcomed U.S. Transportation Secretary Elaine L. Chao to South Florida. After her arrival at Miami International Airport, Secretary Chao and Congressman Diaz-Balart participated in a transportation and infrastructure stakeholder meeting with Miami-Dade County Mayor Carlos Gimenez, Miami-Dade County Commission Chairman Esteban “Steve” Bovo, MIA Director Emilio Gonzalez, PortMiami Director Juan Kuryla, FDOT Director of Development Harold Desdunes, Miami-Dade Expressway Authority Executive Director Javier Rodriguez, Miami-Dade County Department of Transportation and Public Works Director Alice Bravo, and Miami-Dade Transportation Planning Organization Executive Director Aileen Boucle.All photos should be attributed to the Office of Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart. In the afternoon, Secretary Chao and Congressman Diaz-Balart visited Florida International University's Accelerated Bridge Construction University Transportation Center (ABC-UTC) and the Wall of Wind. The university's ABC-UTC focuses on the improvement of accelerated bridge construction, maintenance, and replacement. The Wall of Wind is a state-of-the-art facility that simulates hurricane-strength wind gusts for engineering and resilience testing. Both of these federally-designated research centers allow for the study of best practices and research and development in infrastructure construction. ###
10.14.2017	MIAMI - Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the Trump administration made a policy announcement on Iran. "I commend President Trump's tough policy on Iran and the administration's critical strategic objectives of neutralizing Iran's support of terrorism and its various proxy wars, cutting off financial institutions that support terrorism, countering Iran's cyber, ballistic missiles, and proliferation threats, and denying all paths to nuclear weapons. "President Trump's announced policy demonstrates once again that the previous administration's failed policy of appeasement is over. Brutal dictatorships that oppose U.S. national security interests and suppress their own people will not be coddled. Those who assist them will be held accountable. I appreciate the moral clarity that President Trump has demonstrated in emphasizing that the mullahs of Iran are not the Iranian people. To the contrary, they oppress and terrorize the Iranian people. His policy is one that rightly isolates the mullahs and the Revolutionary Guard while maintaining solidarity with the Iranian people. With this principled policy, the United States prioritizes America's national security interests by preventing a terrorist state from creating nuclear weapons, expresses solidarity with the oppressed people of Iran, and seeks to further restrict the Iranian regime from obtaining resources to fund its extremist activities." ###
10.12.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the passage of additional supplemental appropriations for disaster relief. In the wake of Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria, this funding would help those in the hurricane-impacted areas. “In the weeks following Hurricane Irma, we are able to see the lasting effects this storm will have on our community, and it is evident that additional funding is necessary. This legislation delivers over $18 billion directly to FEMA’s Disaster Relief Fund, ensures the National Flood Insurance Program has the funding it needs to pay its claims, and grants food aid and loan eligibility to the storm-ravaged island of Puerto Rico. Additionally, the impact of the storm has devastated our states farmers and growers, and it will be a long road to recovery for them. Specifically, the citrus industry, critical to Florida’s economy, was hit catastrophically and federal resources will be needed. I will fight to ensure Florida’s agricultural industry has the resources it needs to get back on their feet. “As we continue to recover, I look forward to working with Speaker Ryan, Chairman Frelinghuysen, and our colleagues. I’m proud to support Florida and other impacted areas to rebuild our strong, beautiful communities.” ###
10.11.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after Dr. Yleem Poblete, former chief of staff of the House Foreign Affairs Committee under Chairwoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, was nominated to be the Assistant Secretary of State, Verification and Compliance by President Trump. “Dr. Poblete's commitment to public service is admirable. During her time on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Yleem was a beacon of knowledge and insight for Congress on a number of important foreign policy and national security issues. As the United States faces global threats, her expertise will be extremely valuable as she leads the Bureau of Arms Control. North Korea, Iran, and Russia pose serious risks to our national security, and we need dedicated public servants like Yleem to help advise President Trump and Secretary Tillerson on how to best contain our adversaries' threats. I congratulate Dr. Poblete and commend President Trump for nominating my well-respected friend to this position.” ###
10.05.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), a senior member of the House Budget Committee, issued the following statement after the House passed the fiscal year 2018 budget resolution. “The FY18 budget provides a path to fiscal stability and prosperity for our country. This budget serves as a vehicle for meaningful tax reform, which will create a simplified tax code that empowers American families, encourages job growth, and revitalizes our economy. Within the last 10 months, we have seen economic growth and consumer confidence steadily climb, and House Republicans are committed to passing tax reform that will lead to continued growth. The budget also supports our troops and protects U.S. national security interests by providing our military with the robust resources it requires to defend our country. “I thank Speaker Ryan and Chairman Black for their leadership on this issue, and I look forward to working with them and our colleagues to create a fair and simple tax code that strengthens our country.” ###
10.03.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the State Department announced they would expel 15 Cuban regime officials from the embassy in Washington, D.C. “I commend the Trump administration for taking a tough stand against the Castro regime by expelling diplomats following reports of sonic attacks against U.S. diplomats in Havana. Shamefully, the regime in Cuba has a long history of harassing U.S. diplomatic personnel. This was an appropriate step to protect staff and U.S. national security interests. The policy of the past administration is once again proving to be a failure, and this time, it is at the expense of the health of American citizens. This shows that the Trump Administration does not tolerate attacks on our diplomats serving overseas.” ###
09.29.2017	MIAMI - Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement in response to the State Department announcement. "The Cuban regime has a long history of attacking and harassing U.S. diplomatic personnel. We must take the appropriate steps to protect these staff members and U.S. national security interests. The policy of the past administration is once again proving to be a failure, and this time, it is at the expense of the health of American citizens. I encourage the Trump administration to assess whether additional consequences, such as declaring additional Cuban regime operatives persona non grata, would be appropriate. The United States will not allow Castro or his thugs to attack our diplomats. "I also commend the Trump administration for issuing the travel warning, alerting our citizens to the dangers they face when traveling to Cuba." ###
09.28.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the passage H.R. 3823, Disaster Tax Relief and Airport and Airway Extension Act of 2017. The bill contains tax benefits to individuals living in areas impacted by Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria. U.S. citizens in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands are also eligible for these tax benefits. “This year, we have experienced an extremely active hurricane season that has left destruction and devastation in its path. After days without running water or electricity, parts of Florida are just beginning the rebuilding process. A large number of homes in our community have been deemed structurally unsafe, and hundreds more require critical repair. This legislation provides significant tax relief that will assist Floridians and others who have been impacted by recent storms. Many are now left to find the financial means to make needed repairs to their homes. Among others, by eliminating the tax penalty on early retirement plan withdrawals, we can help folks access the capital required to make these repairs and get back on their feet. These tax benefits also extend to citizens of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, assisting Caribbean citizens who need our support in this difficult time.” ###
09.28.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after the White House's Office of National Drug Control Policy today announced that Collier County would be designated as part of South Florida's High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA). “Designation as part of the South Florida High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area will provide the Collier County Sheriff's Office with the resources it needs to combat this problem. It will also offer CCSO the opportunity to partner with federal, state, and local agencies to address the drug-related issues that our community faces. Drug trafficking cases can be complex and costly, and no single agency has sufficient resources to adequately address drug crimes. Collaboration with other agencies is vital, and I was proud to support the Sheriff’s Office in this initiative,” stated Congressman Diaz-Balart. “Collier County has some of the finest law enforcement officers in the country, and I am grateful for their service. I thank Sheriff Kevin Rambosk and Captain Tom Storrar for their commitment to acquiring this designation. I also want to thank Mr. Ed Morton for his leadership and assistance on this issue. I look forward to continue working with them and local elected officials to ensure Collier County has the federal resources it needs to combat drug trafficking.” “Drug trafficking is a national problem that has to be addressed on the local level, and adding these counties to the HIDTA program is a critical part of this effort,” said Richard Baum, Acting Director of National Drug Control Policy. “These new designations and the funding they will bring will help our Federal, state, and local law enforcement officers work together to disrupt and dismantle the trafficking networks that are bringing drugs into our communities.” In November, Diaz-Balart sent a letter to the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy in support of Collier County’s HIDTA application. ###
09.13.2017	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) announced that Hendry County has been added to the list of counties in Florida eligible for Individual Assistance (IA) as part of the Major Disaster Declaration issued by President Trump on Sunday. Miami-Dade and Collier Counties were included in the initial disaster declaration. “During today’s aerial tour of the 25th District with the U.S. Coast Guard, I was able to survey the devastation Hurricane Irma caused in our community. After speaking to local officials in the wake of the storm, I worked to ensure FEMA included all three counties in our district as part of the individual assistance designation. Many in Hendry County still do not have power, are receiving poor cell phone service, and are struggling to find gasoline, ice, and non-perishables. I’m grateful to FEMA Administrator Long for recognizing the impact the storm had on my constituents, and will continue to work with him to ensure our local governments have the resources they need to help the community.” ###
09.05.2017	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement in disagreement with the Trump administration's announcement to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program with a six-month delay. President Trump also announced he sees the need for a legislative solution. For over a decade, Diaz-Balart has been a leader on immigration reform in Congress, working with dozens of colleagues from both parties on a bipartisan, commonsense answer. “The DACA program serves children and young adults who came to the United States at the choice of a parent or guardian. I proudly stand with DREAMers and strongly disagree with the decision to end a program that has greatly benefited thousands of young people who are an integral part of our country. Congress must act on a legislative solution before DACA expires. We should not punish these young people for a decision that was never theirs to make. I have said time and time again that our country's immigration system is broken, and I remain committed to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to obtain a legislative solution that will permit DREAMers to legally continue to contribute their talents and abilities to our great nation.” ###
09.05.2017	MIAMI – El congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (FL-25) hizo la siguiente declaración criticando la decisión de la administración Trump de poner fin al programa de Consideración de Acción Diferida para los Llegados en la Infancia (DACA) con un retraso de seis meses. El presidente Trump declaró que es necesaria una solución legislativa. Díaz-Balart ha sido un líder en la reforma del sistema de inmigración en el Congreso, trabajando con decenas de colegas de ambos partidos para intentar arreglar nuestro sistema de inmigración, que hoy en día no cumple casi ninguno de sus propósitos. “El programa de DACA es para niños y jóvenes que vinieron a los Estados Unidos por la decisión de un padre o guardián. Me solidarizo con los DREAMers y estoy en contra de eliminar un programa que ha beneficiado enormemente a miles de jóvenes que tanto han contribuido a nuestro país. El Congreso tiene que actuar con toda urgencia para aprobar una solución legislativa antes de que DACA se venza. No se deben castigar a estos jóvenes por una decisión que no fue suya. Como he dicho una y otra vez, el sistema de inmigración de EE.UU. no funciona y seguiré trabajando para encontrar una solución legislativa que permita a DREAMers legalmente seguir contribuyendo con sus talentos y habilidades a nuestra gran nación”. ###
08.25.2017	MIAMI - El congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (FL-25) hizo la siguiente declaración después de que el gobierno de Trump anunciara sanciones financieras contra el régimen de Maduro: “Felicito al Presidente Trump por una vez más imponer fuertes sanciones contra el régimen de Maduro. Las sanciones anunciadas hoy van dirigidas contra la petrolera estatal PDVSA y prohíben transacciones que financien la escalada de la deuda y la corrupción del régimen. Está claro que el gobierno de Trump está escuchando a los líderes de la oposición en Venezuela, al Congreso de los Estados Unidos y a la comunidad venezolana en el sur de la Florida y ha tomado una posición firme para proteger los valores e intereses americanos en nuestro hemisferio. Cuando el vicepresidente Mike Pence estuvo en Miami esta semana, afirmó que el gobierno de Trump está comprometido con promover la democracia y declaró: "nuestra determinación es inquebrantable; nuestra convicción es clara". Felicito al gobierno de Trump por su claridad de principios con respecto a luchar contra la tiranía en nuestro hemisferio. Mientras que el régimen de Maduro continúa atropellando a la democracia, como con su falsa ‘asamblea constituyente’, Estados Unidos reitera su firme solidaridad con el pueblo venezolano.” ###
08.25.2017	Diaz-Balart Commends President Trump For the Financial Sanctions Against the Maduro Regime MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after the Trump Administration announced financial sanctions against the Maduro regime. “I commend President Trump for once again imposing tough sanctions against the Maduro regime. Today’s announced sanctions target Venezuela’s state-run oil company PDVSA, and prohibit transactions that finance the regime’s escalating debt and corruption. Clearly the Trump administration is listening to opposition leaders in Venezuela, the U.S. Congress, and members of the Venezuelan community in South Florida and has taken a firm stand to protect American values and interests in our hemisphere. When Vice President Mike Pence was in Miami this week, he asserted that the Trump administration was committed to promoting democracy and stated, “our resolve is unwavering; our conviction is clear.” I commend the Trump Administration’s principled clarity on opposing tyranny in our hemisphere. As the Maduro regime continues its relentless assaults on democracy and subversion of representative democracy with its sham “Constituent Assembly,” the United States stands in firm solidarity with the Venezuelan people. ###
08.25.2017	Diaz-Balart Commends President Trump and Vice President Pence for their Continued Support for a Free and Democratic Venezuela MIAMI – Today as Vice President Pence addressed the Venezuelan exile community in Doral, Florida, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart delivered the following statement. As prepared for delivery: “I am honored to be here today with Father Israel Mago of Our Lady of Guadalupe Church and many others to meet with Vice President Pence, who recently finished a trip to key countries in our hemisphere, and talk about the ongoing assault on democracy and the continued repression of the Venezuelan people. Among those who have been imprisoned for their political views is Wuilly Arteaga, a courageous young violinist and activist. I had the honor of meeting Wuilly. Since then, Wuilly has been beaten and arrested simply for his musical protests against the Maduro regime. With his defiant renditions of Venezuela’s national anthem, ringing out in the midst of brutality perpetrated by Maduro’s thugs, Wuilly has become one more symbol of the protest movement which persists despite Maduro’s escalating repression. Many of those imprisoned have attested to beatings, inhumane conditions, and even torture at the hands of Maduro’s thugs. Many have been falsely accused of crimes, and others are being held despite a court order that they be released. Let it be clear that the Trump Administration—I repeat, the Trump Administration—and the US Congress stand with the Venezuelan people, including its courageous activists, opposition leaders, political prisoners and their families, the doctors and nurses who have demanded access to basic medicines for their patients, and others who have risked everything to achieve a democratic Venezuela. We must also remember those who have died at the hands of Maduro’s thugs, more than 120 people since the protests began in April of this year. But this violence is not new. Genesis Carmona, the daughter of my constituent Maria Eugenia Tovar, was killed during protests in 2014. The Chavez-Maduro legacy is one of repression and brutality. Even opposition members of the democratically-elected National Assembly, which Maduro has attempted to supplant with the sham “Constituent Assembly,” were violently attacked on Venezuela’s independence day leaving several injured. Opposition members of the National Assembly have faced reprisals for attempting to lawfully represent those Venezuelans who elected them. The Trump administration, represented today by our dear friend Vice President Pence, must be commended for imposing tough sanctions on those who have plunged Venezuela into chaos. The administration took the bold step of personally sanctioning Nicolas Maduro, making him one of only four heads of state to be directly sanctioned by the United States. So now, Maduro stands in the company of the world’s most infamous pariahs -- Bashar al-Assad of Syria, Kim Jong-un of North Korea, and Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe. We also know that the Castro regime has sent operatives to assist with the Maduro campaign of repression, within various levels of government and the security services. As Mary Anastasia O’Grady has written for the Wall Street Journal, the Castro regime “has embedded a Soviet-style security apparatus” in Venezuela. And earlier this month, CIA Director Mike Pompeo affirmed that state actors including the Castro regime were operating in Venezuela. Some say we should treat the Maduro and Castro regimes like legitimate governments, since the Cold War is over. However, we all know that both the Venezuelan and Cuban people continue to suffer under the hot iron of repression. For our outspoken support of pro-democracy activists, and our opposition to human rights abuses, repression, and corruption in Venezuela, Maduro labeled me and some of my colleagues “terrorists” and has forbidden us from entering the country. I take that as a badge of honor. We don’t need to be in Venezuela to condemn the beatings, arbitrary arrests, torture, and countless other abuses. Make no mistake, those criminals who have beaten, tortured, and killed innocent protesters on behalf of a brutal dictatorship will be held accountable for their crimes. Así que mientras la administración de Obama se sentó con Diosdado Cabello, y Maduro está con Assad, Kim Jong-un, Mugabe, y el paria de nuestro hemisferio, Castro, yo estoy con: • el pueblo venezolano, incluidos los valientes activistas, los presos políticos y los que siguen arriesgando todo por una Venezuela libre, • la administración Trump, que en tan sólo ocho meses ha impuesto cuatro rondas de sanciones contra los corruptos de Maduro, • el Secretario General de la OEA, quien dijo textualmente que "el gobierno de Venezuela tiene sangre en sus manos y debe ser responsabilizado por eso"; • Mis colegas en el Congreso, que en 2014 Y 2016 aprobaron la legislación impulsada por Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Marco Rubio y Bob Menéndez, para imponer fuertes sanciones contra el régimen de Maduro. También debemos agradecer a Carlos Curbelo su inquebrantable apoyo. • Y la comunidad de venezolanos en el exilio en el sur de Florida, quienes nos recuerdan siempre que nuestros hermanos y hermanas en Venezuela están luchando por la libertad. Me siento honrado de estar aquí con usted, Vicepresidente Pence. Has sido un firme defensor de los valores de EEUU, incluyendo nuestro compromiso con la democracia, y con tantos otros amigos de la heroica comunidad venezolana, trabajaremos juntos hasta que Venezuela sea libre.” ###
07.31.2017	WASHINGTON – El congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (FL-25) hizo la siguiente declaración después de que el gobierno de Trump anunció sanciones contra el dictador venezolano Nicolás Maduro. La semana pasada, el Presidente Trump anunció sanciones contra trece miembros del régimen venezolano y dejó claro que habría sanciones adicionales si el régimen seguía adelante con su fraudulenta asamblea constituyente. “La semana pasada, cuando sancionó a trece miembros del régimen de Maduro, el Presidente Trump advirtió que si el régimen seguía adelante con su asamblea constituyente ilegal habría consecuencias graves. La sanción de hoy a Nicolás Maduro es un mensaje inequívoco para él y otros dictadores del mundo que los Estados Unidos no aceptará a regímenes opresivos. “Durante casi dos décadas, el pueblo venezolano ha sufrido bajo una creciente opresión. Las cuatro rondas de sanciones que el gobierno de Trump ha emitido en los últimos seis meses expresan su solidaridad con los venezolanos que luchan por su libertad, a la vez que condenan a los matones que los oprimen. Felicito al Presidente Trump y a su gobierno por tomar una posición firme contra la opresión. A medida que seguimos apoyando al heroico pueblo venezolano y sus aspiraciones democráticas, seguiré trabajando estrechamente con nuestro gobierno y mis colegas del Congreso para asegurar que se restablezcan sus derechos y libertades fundamentales”. ###
07.31.2017	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the Trump administration announced sanctions against Venezuelan dictator Nicolas Maduro. Last week, President Trump announced sanctions against 13 Venezuelan regime operatives, and made it clear he was ready to issue more sanctions should the Maduro regime move forward with the Constituent Assembly. “When he issued sanctions last week against 13 operatives of the Maduro regime, President Trump warned: should the Maduro regime move forward with the illegal Constituent Assembly, there would be grave consequences. Today's sanctioning of Nicolas Maduro is a bold and definitive message to him and other ruthless dictators around the globe that the United States will not coddle oppressive regimes. “For almost two decades, the Venezuelan people have suffered under increasing oppression. The four rounds of sanctions that the Trump Administration has issued over the last six months have expressed solidarity with freedom-seeking Venezuelans while opposing the thugs that repress them. I commend President Trump and his administration for taking a tough stand against oppression. As we continue to support the Venezuelan people in their democratic aspirations, I look forward to continuing to work with this Administration and my congressional colleagues to impose additional sanctions as needed and ensure that basic rights and liberties are restored.” ###
07.31.2017	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement in response to yet another blatant power grab by the Maduro regime. “Yesterday’s sham election was yet another shameless assault on democracy and the rule of law by the Maduro regime. The illegal attempt to rewrite Venezuela’s constitution reveals once again that Maduro and his cronies will stop at nothing in their desperate bid to cling to power. “I commend the Trump administration for refusing to recognize the results of yesterday’s illegitimate vote, as well as the refusal of a growing number of other countries to recognize the results, including Argentina, Panama, Britain, Canada, Mexico, Paraguay, and Spain. The United States will continue to stand solidly with the people of Venezuela as they struggle against the oppressive Maduro regime to restore the basic rights and liberties to which all people are entitled. ” ###
07.27.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after passage of H.R. 3219, the Make America Secure Appropriations Act. This legislation included the Defense, Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, Energy and Water, and Legislative Branch FY18 appropriations funding. “Today’s legislation ensures the security and protection of the American people, here at home and across the globe. From our military to our energy programs, the legislation funds the most important and vital components to our national security. This year’s funding for the Department of Defense is increased by 13% above last year’s, reflecting the urgent need to maintain American dominance in the global arena. It funds a 2.4% pay raise for our troops, who selflessly risk their lives for freedom every day. The $78.3 billion included for the Department of Veterans Affairs demonstrates our commitment to serving veterans across the United States. In a time where we face nuclear threats from enemies like North Korea and Iran, the legislation increases funding for the Department of Energy’s nuclear weapons program to $13.9 billion. It also provides funding to support the U.S. Capitol Police, providing security to the countless visitors, staff, and Members of Congress who walk the halls of our legislative body. “I commend Chairman Frelinghuysen and Subcommittee Chairmen Granger, Simpson, Dent, and Yoder for their efforts on getting this legislation passed. I will continue to work with them and our Appropriations Committee colleagues to ensure the safety and security of the American people.” Highlights from the legislation include: $76.5 million for Everglades restoration $82 million for the Herbert Hoover Dike rehabilitation $68.1 billion for the Department of Defense, 13% above FY17 level $73.9 billion in Overseas Contingency Operations funding to ensure troops have proper training and equipment they need $13.9 billion for the Department of Energy’s nuclear weapons security programs $9.6 billion for the Department of Energy’s energy research programs $1.4 billion for military family housing construction, operations, and maintenance $78.3 billion for the Department of Veterans Affairs, including: $69 billion for VA medical care ($8.4 billion in mental healthcare services, $186 million for suicide prevention treatment, and $50 million for opioid abuse prevention), $65 million for the VA electronic health record system, $753 million for construction within the VA system $422.5 million for the U.S. Capitol Police $468 million for the Library of Congress ###
07.26.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after the Trump Administration announced additional sanctions against operatives of the Maduro regime. Earlier this year, Diaz-Balart commended President Trump after he imposed sanctions against Tareck El Aissami, the Vice President, and against the regime’s sham Supreme Court. “I commend President Trump on his decision to impose more sanctions against members of the Maduro regime in Venezuela. The people of Venezuela have suffered under brutal repression and a collapsing economy for far too long. On July 16, millions of Venezuelans rejected Maduro’s plans for another blatant power grab through his ‘Constituent Assembly.’ These sanctions also serve as a warning; should Maduro move forward with Sunday’s planned ‘Constituent Assembly,’ the Trump Administration is ready to proceed with additional sanctions. As Maduro continues to subvert Venezuela’s democratic institutions and undermine the rule of law, the Trump administration and the American people stand with the people of Venezuela in opposing Maduro’s shameless assaults on democracy.” On July 18th, Diaz-Balart joined a group of bipartisan colleagues in a letter to President Trump, condemning the Constituent Assembly that is planned for July 30th. ###
07.26.2017	WASHINGTON – El congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (FL-25) hizo la siguiente declaración con respecto a las sanciones adicionales anunciadas por la administración Trump contra el régimen de Maduro. A principios de este año, Díaz-Balart elogió al presidente Trump después de que impusiera sanciones contra Tareck El Aissami, el vicepresidente, y contra la falsa Corte Suprema del régimen. "Felicito al Presidente Trump por su decisión de imponer más sanciones al régimen de Maduro en Venezuela. El pueblo de Venezuela ha sufrido demasiado tiempo bajo una represión brutal y una economía colapsada. El 16 de julio, millones de venezolanos rechazaron los planes de Maduro de robarse aún más poder con su ‘asamblea constituyente’. Las sanciones de hoy también son una advertencia; si Maduro sigue adelante con la 'asamblea constituyente' prevista para el domingo, la administración Trump está dispuesta a proceder con incluso más sanciones, aparte de las anunciadas hoy. Mientras Maduro sigue subvirtiendo las instituciones democráticas de Venezuela, la administración Trump y el pueblo estadounidense se unen al pueblo de Venezuela para oponerse a los descarados asaltos a la democracia de Maduro". El pasado 18 de julio, Díaz-Balart se unió a un grupo de colegas bipartidistas en una carta al Presidente Trump, condenando la asamblea constituyente que está prevista para el 30 de julio. ###
07.25.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after the passage of H.R. 3364, Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act. This legislation targets the regimes of Russia, Iran and North Korea. “Today, I voted to support legislation that will enhance sanctions against regimes that threaten U.S. national security interests. North Korea is developing nuclear weapons that endanger American cities, Iran continues to fund Hezbollah and other terrorist groups, and Russia is responsible for ongoing cyberattacks that undermine many countries, including our own. By strengthening sanctions against these countries and their agents, we are sending a message to Kim Jong-un, the mullahs in Iran, and Putin: the United States will not tolerate your actions, and there will be severe consequences. Congress remains firm against repressive regimes, and we will not stand idly by while they continue to pose a significant threat to our country, our national security interests, and our allies.” Later this week, the House is expected to consider H.Res 317, a resolution cosponsored by Diaz-Balart, which calls for the unconditional release of U.S. citizens and permanent residents who are held for political purposes by the Government of Iran. Similarly, Diaz-Balart is an original cosponsor of H.Res 185, which calls on Iran to assist in the return of South Florida resident Bob Levinson, who disappeared in 2007 and is the longest-held U.S. civilian in history. Diaz-Balart also cosponsored the State Sanctions Against Iranian Terrorism Act, legislation that clarifies and expands the authority of the states to act upon their right to impose sanctions on Iran. ###
07.20.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after the House Appropriations Committee approved the State and Foreign Operations bill for fiscal year 2018. “The United States and its allies must be well prepared during times of global instability, like the one we currently face. Our country must assert its dominance in the global arena, keeping our national security interests at the forefront. Supporting strategic allies, including Israel, Jordan, and Georgia, is critical to regional stability. This legislation also provides for the fight against ISIS and other terror groups who encroach on our freedom and American values. At the same time, fighting the war on drugs and curtailing human trafficking will help create stability in Central America and elsewhere. The legislation also creates strict metrics to ensure that Colombia begins to slow down its coca production. Also, by providing funds to democracy programming in Cuba and Venezuela, we are helping the oppressed people of these nations realize their democratic aspirations. This bill goes a long way in supporting our allies, and standing up to our enemies, and I congratulate Subcommittee Chairman Rogers on the committee approval of this legislation. “Once again, we are moving all twelve bills through regular order, and because of Chairman Frelinghuysen’s leadership, we were able to accomplish this within a month’s time. I especially want to applaud his efforts throughout the entire appropriations process.”Highlights from the legislation include: $3.1 billion for security assistance to Israel $6 billion to fight HIV/AIDS around the globe $336 million for assistance to Colombia, including economic support funds, international narcotics control and law enforcement dollars, and foreign military financing $358 million to assist in the fight against ISIS and other terrorist groups $30 million for Cuba democracy programming $8 million for Venezuela democracy programming Increased funding for our strategic allies, including Ukraine, Georgia, Egypt, Jordan, Morocco, and Tunisia $28 million for the Office of Cuba Broadcasting $105 million for the Countering Russian Influence Fund $615 million for United States strategy for engagement in Central America $334 million for the Central America Regional Security Initiative ###
07.19.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressmen Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) and Francis Rooney (FL-19) released the following statement after the House Appropriations Committee approved the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies bill for fiscal year 2018. These funds are in addition to $76.5 million for Everglades restoration and $82 million for the rehabilitation of the Herbert Hoover Dike that were included in the Energy and Water Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2018. “As Floridians, we are lucky to have natural treasures like Everglades National Park right in our backyards. I am the proud Founder and Co-Chair of the Everglades Caucus, and fighting for the Everglades has always been one of my top priorities in Congress. The funding provided in this legislation continues much needed restoration and revitalization projects. We also included funds for vital scientific research taking place, allowing the U.S. Geological Survey to study and better understand the Everglades ecosystem. Within this bill, funding for the Payments in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program is also provided. PILT is a critical program to local governments in Florida, like Collier County, who depend on that money to support first responders and social services,” said Congressman Diaz-Balart. “I congratulate Chairman Frelinghuysen and Subcommittee Chairman Calvert on their leadership, and I look forward to continue working with them to help preserve the Everglades for future generations,” continued Congressman Diaz-Balart.Congressman Francis Rooney stated, “Everglades restoration is vital to the ecology and economy of our community. Last evening's appropriations secured the funding necessary to begin advancing key projects that will be ongoing for the next several years. I am thankful to the committee for approving the full funding amount requested by the Department of Interior and I will continue to fight for additional resources from every available source. In a budget year where countless programs are being cut in an effort to address our obscene national debt of $20 trillion, every dollar obtained for the Everglades and Lake Okeechobee Watershed is critical.” Highlights from the legislation include: $8 million for Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan (CERP), and $46 million for non-CERP Everglades projects $10 million for planning and interagency coordination in support of Everglades restoration $3.4 billion for wildland firefighting and prevention $3.2 billion for the State and Tribal Assistance Grants account $1.5 billion for the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Language expressing concerning over Biscayne National Park’s proposed marine reserve zone $465 million for the Payment in Lieu of Taxes program $153 million for ecosystem programs under the U.S. Geological Survey, including those in the Everglades $30 million for the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act Program Language supporting the inclusion of Latino contributions in Smithsonian Institute programs, exhibitions, collections, and public outreach ###
07.19.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after the House Appropriations Committee approved the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies bill for fiscal year 2018. “Last summer, the Zika virus became a public health crisis, and we learned that we must be ready to protect our communities and keep our families healthy. The Public Health Emergency Preparedness Program provides states and local governments with the resources to respond to public health emergencies, like in the aftermath of a natural disaster or an infectious disease outbreak. The National Institutes of Health was also funded to continue research on Alzheimer’s and cancer treatment. It also funds opioid and heroin abuse treatment programs, to combat a drug crisis that is wreaking havoc across the United States. To help vulnerable populations, funding for senior nutrition programs, including Meals on Wheels, is provided. Many Florida students depend on Pell Grants to continue their education, and funding included offers an opportunity to education, regardless of one's means. Early childhood education makes a significant impact in the 25th District, and funding will allow these programs to continue making a difference in our community. “I congratulate Chairman Frelinghuysen and Subcommittee Chairman Cole on their leadership, and I am pleased we were able to fund so many programs that make a positive impact on our communities and keep our families healthy.”Highlights from the legislation include: $26.4 million for the prevention and response to vector borne diseases such as Zika $35.1 billion to continue research at the National Institutes of Health, including: $1.8 billion for Alzheimer’s research $300 million for the Cancer Moonshot $12.6 million for the Gabriella Miller “Kids First” pediatric cancer research initiative $9.3 billion for early childhood education $747 million to address opioid and heroin abuse, which includes $500 million for the state response grants authorized in the 21st Century Cures Act $838 million for senior nutrition programs, including $227 for the Meals on Wheels Program $680 million for the Public Health Emergency Preparedness Cooperative Agreement Program, helping local governments respond to public health emergencies $22.4 billion to support students with financial need who receive Pell Grants $2.3 billion for the Ryan White HIV/Aids Program ###
07.18.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after the House Appropriations Committee approved the Homeland Security bill for FY18. “I am pleased to support legislation that will strengthen our domestic security. By providing agencies like CBP, TSA, and the U.S. Coast Guard with the proper resources, they will be better equipped to mitigate threats at our borders and ports. The funding provided for the Urban Area Security Initiative will support these goals by working to prevent, protect, and respond to natural disasters and acts of terrorism in greater metropolitan areas, like Miami. Additionally, cybersecurity is critical to our domestic defense, and the legislation provides for cyber infrastructure enhancements and hacking prevention. This bill also funds the continued research and improvement of our floodplain and flood hazard mapping. Floridians are no strangers to the flooding that occurs after a storm or hurricane, and these funds support zoning, building standards, and infrastructure upgrades. “I congratulate Chairmen Frelinghuysen and Subcommittee Chairman Carter on their leadership, and I look forward to continue working with them to help protect our country from the threats it faces each and every day.” Highlights from the legislation include: $13.8 billion for Customs and Border Patrol $7.2 billion for the Transportation Security Administration $630 million for the Urban Area Security Initiative for the prevention and protection, and response to natural disasters and acts of terrorism $10.5 billion for the U.S. Coast Guard $1.8 billion for the enhancement of cyber infrastructure and hacking prevention $177 million for Flood Hazard Mapping and Risk Analysis $190 million for Floodplain Management and Mapping ###
07.17.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Subcommittee of the House Committee on Appropriations, offered the following opening remarks during the full committee mark-up of the FY18 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill. As prepared for delivery: “Today I am pleased to present the fiscal year 2018 THUD bill to the Committee for your consideration, with the goal of a favorable motion to the House. “The bill we are considering today provides $56.5 billion in discretionary budget authority. We are $1.1 billion below the enacted level, but $8.6 billion above the budget request. We have targeted funding in this bill to essential investments in safety, infrastructure, and housing assistance for our most vulnerable populations. This includes the elderly, the disabled, and our veterans. “This bill includes $17.8 billion in discretionary appropriations, and $76.7 billion in total resources for the Department of Transportation. “The Federal Aviation Administration is funded at $16.6 billion, an increase of $435 million above the budget request. We provide this increase to keep advancing NextGen programs with over $1 billion, and to advance the safe operation of our Air Traffic Control system. We made sure we provided funding to support the men and women who work every day to ensure we maintain U.S. leadership as the safest, most complex air traffic system in the world. This has been a top priority for this subcommittee for a number of years, and clearly one for me as well. “Through the federal-aid highways program, the bill delivers $45 billion in road and bridge funding from the Highway Trust Fund, which is almost $1 billion above the fiscal year 2017 level. This funding will provide much needed growth and improvements within America’s highway system. “The bill provides $2.2 billion to the Federal Railroad Administration to continue our commitment to rail safety and to make critical infrastructure investments. “The bill also addresses the repair backlog on the Northeast Corridor with a $500 million investment in the Federal-State Partnership to the State of Good Repair Grants. “We didn’t agree with the Administration’s proposal to shut down the Transit Capital Investment Grant program, and instead we provide funding to keep projects moving through the pipeline. “For housing programs, we worked to ensure that we continue assistance to our most vulnerable populations. The bill includes $38.3 billion for the Department of Housing and Urban Development. “The bill includes significant increases to keep pace with inflation – almost $1 billion above last year for direct rental assistance to maintain housing for those who are currently served. “The bill places a priority on Homeless Assistance programs, and Housing for Opportunities for Persons with AIDS – funding these programs at the enacted level and significantly above the budget request. “The bill restores a number of community development programs that were proposed for elimination in the budget request – CDBG, HOME, and Capacity Building. We listened to our Members from both sides of the aisle, who made sure we knew this was a priority. These programs support decision making where it should happen – at the local level. “We have made some tough choices, but place a priority on safety, infrastructure, and assistance to the most vulnerable among us.” ###
07.14.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after the passage of the National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 2018. “The United States faces the most dangerous and complex strategic situation in decades. We must ensure that our armed forces have the robust resources they need to defend our country and protect U.S. national security interests. The NDAA is a key step toward improving our readiness against our enemies, modernizing our forces, and providing staunch allies like Israel with American support. Most importantly, this legislation is a reminder to our men and women in uniform that they have the full support of Congress and this administration. I am committed to continue working with my colleagues to make sure the U.S. military has the tools it needs to defend our stars and stripes in the 21st century.” ###
07.13.2017	WASHINGTON – El congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (FL-25) hizo la siguiente declaración para recordar a las víctimas del ataque al remolcador “13 de marzo” en su vigésimo tercer aniversario. “Hoy marcamos uno de los días más negros de la historia de Cuba. Hace veintitrés años, el régimen de Castro hundió despiadadamente al remolcador ‘13 de marzo’, asesinando así a decenas de cubanos, entre ellos niños pequeños, que simplemente huían de la tiranía para vivir en libertad. Al recordar esa atrocidad, envío mis oraciones a los familiares y amigos de las víctimas que han sufrido tanto. “Muchos inocentes han muerto trágicamente a manos del régimen comunista de Castro. Los responsables de la masacre del ‘13 de marzo’ y otros criminales del régimen acabarán pagando por sus crímenes. Hasta ese momento, seguiré reclamando los derechos humanos fundamentales, el respeto por la vida y la dignidad, y las libertades esenciales que le corresponden al pueblo cubano”. ###
07.13.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement honoring the victims of the “13 de marzo” tugboat massacre on its 23rd anniversary. “Today, we mark one of Cuba’s darkest days when, twenty-three years ago, the Castro regime ruthlessly capsized the ‘13 de marzo’ tugboat and thereby murdered dozens at sea, including young children, who were simply seeking freedom from a tyrannical dictatorship. As we remember that heinous atrocity, I send my prayers to the loved ones of the victims who continue to mourn their loss. “Shamefully, many innocents have died at the hands of the Castro regime. The callous perpetrators of the ‘13 de marzo’ massacre, and the Castro regime’s other brutal thugs, will be held accountable for their crimes. Until then, I will continue to press for basic human rights, respect for human life and dignity, and fundamental liberties for the Cuban people.” ###
07.13.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after the House Appropriations Committee approved the Commerce, Justice, and Science bill for FY18. "This legislation provides federal and local law enforcement officials and first responders with the resources and tools they need to combat crime, protect our communities, and perform counterterrorism and counterintelligence operations. Far too many Americans are battling addictions with opioids and other illegal substances, and funding provided to DEA will help fight the war on drugs. It also encourages scientific innovation and advances America’s economic competitiveness, maintaining America’s leadership in space. Hurricane forecasting and weather research vitally important to our community is also funded in this bill. “I congratulate Chairmen Frelinghuysen and Subcommittee Chairman Culberson on their leadership, and look forward to continue working with them to provide our law enforcement and research communities with the tools to protect and advance our country.” Highlights from the legislation include: $8.8 billion for the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) $2.6 billion for the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) $4.97 billion for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Within these funds, $31 million for the Integrated Ocean Observing System (IOOS) to improve weather and flooding forecasting $19.9 billion for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Grant programs: $500 million for the Byrne Justice Assistance Grants $22.5 million for the Body Worn Camera Partnership $103 million for opioid abuse prevention $125 million to clear DNA kit backlogs and provide other forensic services after sexual assault crimes $527 million to combat domestic abuse, violence on college campuses, and provide services to sexual assault and trafficking victims Language to encourage the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) to partner with academic research institutions to study and provide best practices in mitigating effects of natural disasters and resiliency construction ###
07.12.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after the House Appropriations Committee approved the Energy and Water bill for FY18. Diaz-Balart, a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, worked with his colleagues to ensure funding for projects important to Florida were included in the final legislation. "Florida is fortunate to have so many diverse natural treasures that have significant impacts on our local community. These funds will go towards the ongoing Everglades restoration work that is vital to the ecosystem's preservation. Continued funding for the Herbert Hoover Dike is critical to the timely rehabilitation of the waterway. I am pleased to have obtained full funding for these projects, and look forward to continue working with local officials and community leaders, including Clewiston Mayor Mali Gardner, LaBelle Mayor David Lyons, Hendry County Commissioner Karson Turner, Mary Ann Martin, Erik Eikenberg and the Everglades Foundation Board of Directors, among others. "I thank Chairman Frelinghuysen and Subcommittee Chairman Simpson for their willingness to work with me on these issues. I will continue to advance issues important to Florida, both in the Appropriations Committee and amongst my House colleagues,” said Diaz-Balart. “Congressman Diaz-Balart has been a tireless advocate for the South Florida Ecosystem Restoration and the Herbert Hoover Dike rehabilitation,” said Energy and Water Subcommittee Chairman Mike Simpson. “I’m pleased that we were able to support these important efforts, and am grateful for Mario’s leadership in Florida.” In addition to the funds obtained in the FY18 Energy and Water Appropriations bill, Diaz-Balart is working with his colleagues on the Appropriations Committee to secure additional funding for Everglades restoration projects in the upcoming FY18 Interior and Environment Appropriations bill. Diaz-Balart, Founder and Co-Chair of the Everglades Caucus, was successful in including the following items in the legislation: $76.5 million for Everglades restoration $82 million for the Herbert Hoover Dike rehabilitation ###
07.10.2017	CLEWISTON – Today, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Founder and Co-Chairman of the Everglades Caucus, toured the Herbert Hoover Dike to get an update on the Dike’s rehabilitation, which was fully funded at $49.5 million in the FY17 Appropriations Omnibus. As a senior member of the House Committee on Appropriations, Diaz-Balart worked with his colleagues to ensure that funding for the Dike’s continued rehabilitation was included in the legislation. Colonel Jason A. Kirk, Commander and District Engineer of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Jacksonville District, Clewiston Mayor Mali Gardner, LaBelle Mayor David Lyons, and Hendry County Commissioner Karson Turner, joined Diaz-Balart on the tour. “The rehabilitation of the Herbert Hoover Dike is a key step towards restoring the Everglades. I’m glad that Mayors Gardner and Lyons and Commissioner Turner were able to join me on this tour to get a first-hand look at the progress being made. I particularly want to thank Colonel Kirk for his unwavering and steadfast leadership. In Congress, I will continue to work with our federal and local partners to ensure that critical rehabilitation projects like the Herbert Hoover Dike remain a priority and are adequately funded.” Photos can be credited to the Office of Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart. ###
06.30.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) today announced that the Lake Okeechobee Rural Health Network (LORHN) would be awarded a Rural Health Network Development Program grant in the sum of $297,408. This grant, awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Federal Office of Rural Health Policy, can be used to “provide support for networks of rural providers to integrate administrative, clinical, technological and financial functions to improve health care delivery.” LORHN serves rural parts of Southwest Florida, including LaBelle, Clewiston, and other areas of Hendry County, which are located in Florida’s 25th Congressional District. “Lake Okeechobee Rural Health Network (LORHN) provides resources medical professionals rely on to serve our rural communities. I am pleased to announce this grant for nearly $300,000, which will provide economic assistance LORHN can utilize to upgrade and expand its administrative, clinical, and technological operations. This grant will allow LORHN and local medical professionals to deliver a higher quality of care to its patients in Florida's rural communities. I look forward to continue working with LORHN as they serve Southwest Florida.” ###
06.29.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement calling for the immediate release and medical treatment of Anairis Miranda Leyva, Adairis Miranda Leyva, Fidel Manuel Batista Leyva, and Maydolis Leyva Portelles, who were placed under house arrest by Castro regime thugs. Reports say that Anairis, in particular, is extremely ill. “Shamefully, siblings Anairis Miranda Leyva, Adairis Miranda Leyva, Fidel Manuel Batista Leyva, and their mother, Maydolis Leyva Portelles, were arrested two days after Fidel Castro’s death for failing to mourn properly. According to reports, they are currently on house arrest and Anairis is perilously ill. “These human rights activists, who are members of the pro-democracy Movimiento Cubano de Reflexión, have been recognized by Amnesty International as prisoners of conscience. These courageous individuals must be immediately and unconditionally released from house arrest and afforded the urgent medical attention that they need. These and numerous other human rights abuses not only demonstrate the cruelty endured by those who dare to oppose the Castro regime, but also highlight the resolute courage of the Leyva family and so many other activists in Cuba’s pro-democracy movement.” ###
06.26.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) today announced that Miami-Dade County would receive $4.092 million in Emergency Solutions Grants (ESG) from the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). Last year, Miami-Dade County lost over $5 million in funding for essential homeless programs in the county. HUD’s homeless assistance program has become increasingly competitive as HUD directs more funding to grantees that allocate resources to projects known to deliver better outcomes like permanent housing and rapid re-housing. Diaz-Balart secured the $4.092 million in funding to help fill the gap for FY17, and these funds could be used for homelessness prevention activities, rapid re-housing, short- or medium-term rental assistance, housing relocation, and stabilization services. “I am pleased to announce that Miami-Dade County will receive $4.1 million in homeless assistance funds. The Homeless Trust does excellent work for our community, and I truly enjoy working with them and local partners who are making a difference for the most vulnerable. This funding will go a long way towards providing solutions and filling gaps can that effectively help address homelessness in South Florida. As Housing Appropriations Chairman, I will continue to work with my colleagues and the Homeless Trust to ensure the best use of federal funding.” Of the more than 100 recipients, Miami-Dade received the most ESG funding of any jurisdiction. Since 2015, Diaz-Balart has served as Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee. As Chairman of this Subcommittee, Diaz-Balart has jurisdiction over and sets funding levels for various transportation and housing programs, including homeless assistance grants. ###
06.16.2017	MIAMI – Today, President Trump announced a new policy toward the Castro dictatorship. Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart delivered the following statement. To watch Congressman Diaz-Balart’s remarks, click here. As prepared for delivery: “Today, I stand here in the presence of the heroes of the 2506 Brigade and so many others who have suffered at the hands of the Castro regime. The brigade in particular is a symbol of dignity, made up of men who personify sacrifice and heroism. And who, having experienced betrayal, have nevertheless never wavered in the struggle for freedom. Many presidents have made commitments, but some of them were not kept. When our brave heroes were promised support on April 17, 1961, they were betrayed and the support never came. When then-nominee Mr. Obama came to Miami, and promised that he would support the embargo for the leverage it provided until genuine change and respect for human rights were recognized on the island, he broke his word. In his last term in office, President Obama urged Congress to end the embargo and yielded all concessions possible, and the Castro regime never unclenched its fist. His policy was based on the absurd notion that increasing trade with the brutal, murderous Castro regime -- even directly aiding the Cuban military-run tourism industry -- would somehow help the Cuban people. He extolled the virtues of his policy which pretended that the oppressed are somehow helped by the strengthening of their oppressors. “In contrast, then-nominee, Donald Trump promised that he would pursue a policy on Cuba that would put U.S. law, the American values of freedom and democracy, and American national security interests, first. And now, he comes back to Miami, in his very first year as President, to keep that promise. The commitments that he made to you, and to those struggling for freedom just 90 miles from our shores, are being kept. U.S. policy will ensure that the Cuban military, which oppresses the Cuban people, through thugs who beat activists, spies on their neighbors, and imprisons the democratic opposition, cannot benefit from increased trade and travel. The regime which was caught smuggling 240 tons of weapons to North Korea, and which has the blood of innocents on its hands, will no longer benefit from U. S. dollars. “I have a message for the Cuban people, and to all of those struggling for freedom, President Trump stands with you. He will not stand for the suppression of basic rights. He will not gloss over human rights abuses or the pleas of political prisoners. You will no longer have to witness the embarrassing spectacle of an American president doing ‘the wave’ with a ruthless dictator at a baseball game in Cuba. Now, the President of the United States stands with you. “Tengo un mensaje para el pueblo cubano y para los que luchan por la libertad. El presidente Trump está con ustedes. No aceptará como normal la supresión de los derechos fundamentales. No pasará por alto los abusos contra los derechos humanos ni las súplicas de los presos políticos. Ahora, el presidente de Estados Unidos está con ustedes.” “I am honored to be here as President Trump sets a new course that is faithful to the values we cherish, and to the struggle for freedom which has come at such a great cost to so many. “President Trump will treat the Castro regime for the malevolent dictatorship that it is. “Thank you, President Trump, for keeping your commitment. You have not betrayed us. You kept your promise; you stand in solidarity with the Cuban people and freedom-loving people everywhere; and you are putting American values and U.S. national security interests first. “Thank you, Mr. President.” ###
06.08.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after the passage of H.R. 10, the Financial CHOICE Act. “At the peak of a financial crisis, Democrats passed legislation aimed at helping consumers and small businesses. Seven years later, we learned the truth: Dodd-Frank didn't help them; it destroyed the community banks small businesses owners depend on. In fact, 56 local banks in Florida have either closed or merged since 2010. Today, House Republicans voted to change that, supporting the community banks and credit unions that help our local communities. By making it easier for entrepreneurs to gain access to capital and removing bureaucratic red tape that hinders innovation, the Financial CHOICE Act encourages and incentivizes job growth. “I thank Speaker Ryan and Chairman Hensarling for their leadership on the Financial CHOICE Act, and look forward to continue working with them to support Main Street, its banks, small businesses, and entrepreneurs. ###
05.25.2017	WASHINGTON - Today, Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Co-Chairmen of the Congressional Everglades Caucus, introduced the bi-partisan Everglades for the Next Generation Act. Senator Bill Nelson (D-FL) introduced the Senate companion. The legislation authorizes Everglades restoration projects that have completed the planning process and are shovel-ready, ensuring that necessary progress in the region continues. (Please find attached a copy of the bill). “Protecting and restoring the Everglades is vital to the overall health of both South Florida’s ecosystem and economy,” said Congressman Hastings. “This bill works to restore this unique ecosystem by ensuring that as final planning for restoration projects is completed, these projects are authorized and brought on line as expeditiously as possible. I am proud to work with Congressman Diaz-Balart and Senator Nelson in ensuring that progress toward Everglades restoration continues as quickly as possible, and that this national treasure is protected for future generations.” “Restoring the Everglades is a top priority,” said Senator Nelson. “There’s simply too much at stake here in Florida to wait around for Congress to pass a water bill every few years. This bill will allow the Corps to begin work on these projects as soon as they are ready.” “I am proud to work with my Everglades Caucus Co-Chair Rep. Hastings to introduce this important legislation. Everglades restoration is a complex, but necessary process. By reducing the red tape after each project is completed, we can help the Army Corps continue preserving this natural treasure. As Floridians, we are fortunate to have the Everglades in our backyard, and we must do everything we can to protect it for future generations,” said Congressman Diaz-Balart. ###
05.25.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the Department of Transportation announced Positive Train Control grant awards for FY17. Diaz-Balart is Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD) Appropriations Subcommittee. “I am proud to announce Florida was awarded two Positive Train Control (PTC) grants. Tri-Rail, one of the recipients, connects residents in South Florida from Palm Beach to Miami-Dade counties. The Florida Department of Transportation, the second recipient, was awarded funding to implement an interoperable PTC system along the Central Florida Rail Corridor (CFRC). This will help ensure the safety of the more than 1.2 million Floridians and visitors traveling on SunRail and Amtrak. “PTC is a critical safety tool and investment in the implementation and maintenance of this system is of the utmost importance to both railway passengers and employees. As Transportation Appropriations Chairman, I worked to ensure this critical PTC program was funded so that Florida can compete for these safety enhancements. I will work to continue supporting PTC grants in Florida and across the country to keep folks moving safely and efficiently.” $31.6 million was awarded to the South Florida Regional Transportation Authority (SFRTA) for Miami-Dade, Broward, and Palm Beach counties, which are serviced by Tri-Rail. $1.84 million was awarded for a 110 mile portion of the Central Florida Rail Corridor (CFRC), which is serviced by SunRail and Amtrak. ###
05.24.2017	WASHINGTON – After the Trump administration announced Monday it would extend Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Haiti, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) spoke at length to Department of Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly. Congressman Diaz-Balart issued the following statement regarding the call. “Few people are more knowledgeable about this hemisphere and the current situation in Haiti than Secretary Kelly. While Haiti continues to rebuild after the 2008 hurricane season and the 2010 earthquake, there is still extensive work to be done. Clearly, Secretary Kelly understands and is sensitive to the circumstances Haiti faces, and I am grateful to him for always being accessible. I am committed to working with Secretary Kelly and my congressional colleagues to do whatever possible to help the Haitian community.” ###
05.23.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), a senior member of the House Appropriations and Budget Committees, released the following statement in response to President Trump’s FY 18 budget request. “As a member of the Appropriations and Budget Committees, I will thoughtfully review and consider the President’s request. The Constitution is clear in that funding decisions are ultimately in the hands of Congress, and it is critical we ensure hard earned taxpayer dollars are well spent. I look forward to working with Chairman Frelinghuysen, Chairwoman Black, and the White House to put together a fiscally responsible budget.” ###
05.22.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the Trump administration announced it would extend Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Haiti. “For almost a decade, the people of Haiti have suffered at the hands of Mother Nature. First wreaked by a destructive 2008 hurricane season, a catastrophic earthquake in 2010 killed hundreds of thousands of people and leveled many parts of the country. Countless Haitians living in the United States, including those in the 25th district, have benefited from Temporary Protected Status. I thank President Trump and DHS Secretary Kelly for this TPS extension and I support the people of Haiti as they continue to rebuild.” ###
05.19.2017	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement ahead of Cuban Independence Day. “More than a century ago, a courageous and determined people were inspired by heroes such as Jose Marti and won freedom for their island home just ninety miles from our shores. “Regrettably, a few decades later, that noble effort was marred by a brutal regime that has oppressed the Cuban people and insulted the memories of those who sacrificed for its freedom. The devastation wreaked by the Castro regime can be found in its legacy of firing squads, gulags, torture, terrorism, subjugation, and widespread deprivation for the Cuban people. “Some look toward the stepping down of one dictator as an evidence of change. But, as Jose Marti wisely said, ‘To change masters is not to be free.’ Without fair, multiparty elections, the rights to association, free expression, and religious belief, an independent media, and the liberation of all political prisoners, the Cuban people are not free. We cannot tolerate the swapping of one dictator for another. “I am confident that the Cuban people once again will achieve their independence, as they did one hundred and fifteen years ago. Until then, we stand with those heroes of today who, in the vein of Marti, persist in the struggle for freedom. They are Berta Soler and the Ladies in White, Jorge Luis Garcia Perez Antunez, Yris Perez Aguilera, Dr. Oscar Elias Biscet, Ivan Hernandez Carrillo, Rosa Maria Paya, Danilo Maldonado Machado ‘El Sexto,’ Antonio Rodiles, Jose Daniel Ferrer, Eduardo Cardet, and so many others. These heroes are recognized around the world for their strength and resilience. In the last month alone, I had the privilege of attending ceremonies honoring Dr. Biscet and the Ladies in White. They have endured countless sacrifices and assumed grave risks so that the Cuban people may be free. “Today, as we mark Cuba’s independence from a foreign foe, we also honor the spirit of independence that continues within the Cuban people today. Together, we look forward to the day when the Cuban people celebrate their independence from the tyranny that has burdened them for nearly sixty years.” ###
05.18.2017	WASHINGTON – El congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (FL-25) emitió la siguiente declaración después de que el Departamento del Tesoro emitiera sanciones contra miembros del Tribunal Supremo de Justicia del régimen de Maduro en Venezuela. "Hoy, el Presidente Trump impuso severas sanciones al Tribunal Supremo de Maduro en respuesta a la escalada de abusos y represión del régimen así como a los gravísimos atropellos a las instituciones democráticas de Venezuela, como la Asamblea Nacional. La decisión del Tribunal Supremo de destituir a la Asamblea Nacional electa de sus poderes fue una afrenta a la voluntad del pueblo venezolano, que tiene derecho a un gobierno representativo y a un poder judicial independiente. Estas sanciones, así como las palabras de la embajadora Nikki Haley ayer en las Naciones Unidas, son una fuerte condena a la devastación y tiranía del régimen de Maduro. Maduro encarcela a sus opositores políticos, censura a los medios de comunicación, corrompe las instituciones e instiga la violencia contra los manifestantes, y felicito al presidente Trump por tomar, una vez más, una posición firme a favor del pueblo venezolano". ###
05.18.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) issued the following statement after the Treasury Department issued sanctions against members of the Maduro regime’s Supreme Tribunal of Justice, sometimes referred to as the Supreme Court, in Venezuela. “Today, President Trump imposed tough sanctions on the Maduro regime’s puppet Supreme Tribunal of Justice in response to escalating human rights abuses and repression, and the shameful assaults on Venezuela's democratic institutions such as the National Assembly. The Supreme Tribunal Court’s decision to strip the elected National Assembly of its powers was an affront to the will of the Venezuelan people, who are entitled to representative government and an independent judiciary. These sanctions, in addition to Ambassador Nikki Haley's words yesterday at the United Nations, are a strong condemnation of the devastation and tyranny wreaked by the Maduro regime. While Maduro imprisons political opponents, censors media, corrupts institutions, and instigates violence against protesters, I commend President Trump for once again taking a strong stand on behalf of the Venezuelan people.” ###
05.18.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) delivered the following opening statement during a House Appropriations hearing on emerging transportation technologies. As prepared for delivery: “Today we gather to discuss how new technologies are changing our transportation system. We will focus our time today on two specific technologies: unmanned aerial vehicles (or ‘U-A-Vs’ for short), and automated vehicles (also known as, ‘A-Vs’ or self-driving cars and trucks). “These are exciting times! Both of these technologies will make freight and travel far more convenient and efficient. They will change how we live and work in ways that are, quite frankly, hard to imagine. Even more exciting is the potential for a much safer and more reliable transportation network. “Last year, there were over 40,000 deaths from auto accidents and ninety percent of those were due to human error. By removing this human factor, automated vehicles could one day save tens of thousands of lives every year. It is difficult to fathom what an incredible achievement that would be. “On the unmanned aircraft side, it appears that the future is already with us. The promise of drone technology is already beginning to transform our day-to-day lives. Together we need to figure out how to support innovation in our skies, while maintaining the world-class safety record of our airspace. “To realize the benefits of these technologies, we must strike a balance between promoting private innovation and protecting public interest. These disruptive technologies offer a world of new possibilities, but the safety of the American people must come first. “All levels of government will play some role in safeguarding the public as these technologies come to market. And there is no doubt that the agencies funded by this Subcommittee will play very active roles in the research and regulation of both UAVs and AVs. In addition to understanding how these technologies will change the transportation market place, we must also understand the appropriate role for government. “To help us explore where we are now as well as where we are heading, Ranking Member Price and I welcome four technology experts from both industry and academia. I am pleased to introduce: Professor Mykel Kochenderfer from Stanford University’s Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics; Brian Wynne, President and CEO of the Association of Unmanned Vehicle Systems International; Nidhi Kalra, Ph.D. and Senior Information Scientist for the RAND Corporation; and David Strickland, Counsel and Spokesperson for the Self- Driving Coalition for Safer Streets. “I want to thank each of you for joining us this morning and I look forward to your testimony.” ###
05.11.2017	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) recognized Mater Academy Charter High School sophomore Sabrina Valdes for her winning piece in the 25th congressional district’s 2017 Congressional Art Competition. Her piece, titled “Abandonment,” was chosen out of 89 entries submitted from 16 participating schools. Sabrina’s piece will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. A viewing reception for the submitted artwork was held on Tuesday, May 9th at Mary Collins Community Center in Miami Lakes, Florida. (L): Sabrina’s winning piece, “Abandonment” was done in acrylic paint. (R) Congressman Diaz-Balart addresses 2017 Congressional Art Competition participants and their families at the viewing reception. The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 as a way to recognize and encourage the artistic talent of the country’s youth. Since then, over 650,000 high school students have participated nationwide. Each spring a winner is selected from each Congressional District in the U.S. ###
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after the passage of the American Health Care Act. “Whether we like it or not, Obamacare is collapsing and on its way out. Already, in two of the three counties I represent, the Affordable Care Act only offers one provider, with no choice or competition for consumers. In 2016, Miami-Dade County had six providers and next year, will drop to three providers. Collier and Hendry Counties are worse off; they, like forty-five other Florida counties, are left with just one provider. Knowing the people I represent could very well lose their coverage, just like Iowa residents did yesterday when their state marketplace collapsed, is disturbing. It would be irresponsible for Congress not to act in order to prevent this from happening. “While this bill may be far from perfect, I am glad I was able to work with my colleagues to get significant improvements to the American Health Care Act, including: $8 billion dedicated to reduce premiums and out-of-pocket costs for patients with pre-existing conditions, in addition to the $130 billion available to states to cut out-of-pocket costs like premiums and deductibles Protecting Medicaid by reforming it to make sure it is on a sustainable path An additional $15 billion for maternity coverage and newborn care, and mental health and substance abuse disorders “I will work with our colleagues in the Senate as they consider the legislation. I will also continue working with HHS Secretary Price and members of the administration to provide relief from the disastrous effects of Obamacare and ensure the AHCA truly serves the needs of my constituents and the American people.” ###
05.03.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement after the passage of H.R. 244, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2017. “Today, I voted for legislation that supports our military, enhances our nation’s infrastructure, and keeps our country running. As Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, I am proud this bill maintains the critical infrastructure, technologies, and housing opportunities that make a positive difference in the day-to-day lives of our constituents. At a time where our national security is at stake, it strengthens our military with robust resources to defend our country, at home and abroad. It also provides funding to prepare for emerging health threats, to ensure that we are ready to prevent, treat, and respond to any disease outbreaks as we did last summer with the Zika virus. “I commend Speaker Ryan and Chairman Frelinghuysen for their effort and leadership in negotiating this significant legislation, and look forward to beginning the FY18 appropriations process in regular order.”Congressman Diaz-Balart, a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, was successful in including the following items in the appropriations omnibus: $106 million for Everglades restoration 49.5 million for the Herbert Hoover Dike $7.3 billion for FEMA, rejecting Obama’s proposed cuts to first-responder and other critical grant programs 2.1% percent pay raise for the military $142 million to respond and prepare for emerging health threats, of which $70 million is for a new Emergency Reserve Fund to respond more rapidly to contagious infectious disease outbreaks $3 billion for Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) Fully fund Section 8 vouchers and public housing assistance $502.4 million for housing for the elderly $146.2 million for housing for persons with disabilities $40 million for 5,000 new vouchers for homeless veterans (VASH) Homeless Assistance Grants: $2.383 million total Includes $40 million is for grants for rapid rehousing or other critical activities to assist communities that lost significant capacity to serve the homeless after January 1, 2016 - Miami-Dade County would be an eligible recipient $15 million for technical assistance to CoCs Including no less than $5 million for high need communities Miami-Dade County would be an eligible recipient $2.4 billion in grant funding to support law enforcement $34 billion to the NIH for research for Alzheimer’s disease, brain, antibiotic resistance, and Precision Medicine Initiative $7.3 billion to the CDC for disease prevention and biodefense $544 million to the Government Accountability Office to track how taxpayer dollars are spent $61 million citrus greening research $7.5 million for the Huanglongbing Multiagency Coordination Group’s (HLB-MAC) for early detection, greening management strategies, and therapies to treat infected trees $53.8 million for the USDA’s Citrus Health Response Program (CHRP) $3.6 billion to the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Administration (SAMHSA) to fund programs that address prevention and treatment of opioid/heroin abuse ###
04.30.2017	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27) announced she would retire at the end of her term. "Ileana Ros-Lehtinen is one of the most respected and admired Members of Congress. For almost four decades, Ileana has served our community with honor and integrity. From her days as an educator, to the Florida Legislature, and now ending her tenure in Congress, Ileana truly exemplifies what it means to be a public servant. She never seeks political expediency and always puts the interests of her constituents first. From one corner of the globe to another, she is tireless in her crusade for human rights and democracy. "To say Ileana is a trusted friend and mentor to me is an understatement; she is a part of my family, and I will dearly miss 'mi hermana legislativa' in the halls of Congress. I wish nothing but the best for Ileana, her husband Dexter, their children, and their grandchildren as she begins this next chapter in her life." ###
04.22.2017	NAPLES - Congressmen Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) and Francis Rooney (FL-19) released the following statement after the Trump administration approved a Fire Management Assistance Grant to the State of Florida, allowing the use of federal funds to reimburse response costs to fight a rapidly spreading wildfire in Collier County. "We are grateful to President Trump for recognizing the need for federal funding to fight these fires. Our firefighters and first responders are bravely on the front lines, and federal assistance to support them is critical. We will continue to support Governor Scott, the County Commission, and other local officials in any way we are able to. "We are extremely proud of our firefighters and first responders, and are confident in their capabilities to control this blaze." ###
04.21.2017	“We are working to assist Collier County Emergency Management in combating and controlling the brush fires currently burning over 3,000 acres in the area. The State of Florida’s initial request for a Fire Management Assistance Grant was denied at the regional level, however we are working to support an appeal and will assist Governor Scott and local officials in any way possible. Please stay safe and follow the evacuation orders of emergency services officials listed below:” Collier County Government April 21, 2017 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE MANDATORY EVACUATION EXTENDS TO GOLDEN GATE BOULEVARD A mandatory evacuation notice has been announced as two wildfires continue to rage in eastern Collier County. The boundaries of the affected area are from the south side of Golden Gate Boulevard south to Interstate 75 and from 39th Street east to Tobias Street. A reception center opened at the Golden Gate Community Center, 4701 Golden Gate Parkway, Naples, Florida 34116, with services for the evacuees. This is not an overnight shelter at this time. The Bureau of Emergency Services is asking residents who live in the area to monitor conditions and local news and social media for possible changes, including the lifting of the evacuation. For more information, please call the Emergency Information Hotline at (239) 252-8444.
04.17.2017	IMMOKALEE – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, was the keynote speaker at today’s dedication of Hatchers Preserve, a newly constructed affordable housing community in Immokalee’s Eden Park-Esperanza Place neighborhood. “I was honored to take part in today’s dedication of Hatchers Preserve. This new community will provide a safe roof over the heads of 18 deserving families. As Housing Appropriations Chair, I will continue to support programs that provide affordable housing like Hatchers Preserve. Today's dedication ceremony is a prime example of the federal government and local leaders coming together to advance solutions. I especially want to commend the great work of Rural Neighborhoods, including Steve Kirk, for their vision and determination to see this project to its completion. I look forward to continue working with the Southwest Florida community to protect and preserve affordable housing.”Photos can be attributed to the Office of Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart. ###
04.13.2017	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, today welcomed Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson to South Florida as the Secretary continues his listening tour across the country. Together, they visited and met with housing officials at Villa Aurora and Hoffman Gardens, permanent supportive housing and a public housing site in Little Havana and Hialeah, respectively. “I was pleased to welcome Secretary Carson to South Florida as part of his national listening tour. Affordable housing and community development programs continue to be top priorities in South Florida, and I was glad to showcase the importance of housing assistance to our community,” said Diaz-Balart. Continued support from the Department of Housing and Urban Development is critical to maintain them. I am grateful to Secretary Carson for accepting my invitation to visit South Florida’s housing programs, and I look forward to continue working with him to ensure affordable housing is provided to those who rely on it in an efficient and cost-effective manner.” "I appreciate Representative Diaz-Balart showing me how public/private partnerships are working to provide low income housing in his community. At HUD we are working to create a holistic approach to housing that will help South Florida residents," said Carson. Since 2015, Diaz-Balart has served as Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee. As Chairman of this Subcommittee, Diaz-Balart has jurisdiction over and sets funding levels for various transportation and housing programs. ###
04.13.2017	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) today hosted a tax reform roundtable. Among those invited were local businesses owners who stand to benefit from reforming our current tax code. “I was glad to welcome local business owners to discuss tax reform and how it could impact their businesses. Our current tax code is too complicated, for individuals and business owners alike. As Speaker Ryan and Chairman Brady have outlined in the Better Way agenda, by creating a simpler, fairer tax code, we can incentivize job creation, allowing for advancement and opportunity for Americans across the country. Instead of hampering business owners with burdensome tax regulations, reforming the current tax code will strengthen our economy. “I thank today’s participants for their input and feedback, and look forward to returning to Washington to share this vital information with my colleagues.”Photos can be attributed to the Office of Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart. ###
04.07.2017	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after the Trump administration announced a military air strike against the Assad regime. “I commend our troops for their effectiveness in last night’s military operation. The Assad regime has terrorized the Syrian people, and unlike the previous administration, President Trump will not tolerate Assad's egregious actions. I applaud President Trump for his stance against those who would use these horrifying weapons.” ###
04.06.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Representatives Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) and Ted Deutch (FL-22) and Senators Marco Rubio (FL) and Bill Nelson (FL) led a bipartisan, bicameral group of 47 members of Congress in urging President Trump to maintain a comprehensive effort across the federal government to combat the Zika virus. “Last year, the United States confronted the Zika virus, which became a serious public health crisis,” said Congressman Diaz-Balart. “With the mosquito-borne illness expected to make a comeback this summer, we must ensure Florida and other states impacted by Zika have the support of the federal government.” “The worst of the Zika season is almost here and Floridians are once again on the front lines,” said Congressman Deutch. “Families are worried about their kids and local businesses are concerned about tourism. Zika may have faded from the headlines, but South Florida urgently needs federal resources to be dedicated to preventing infection, understanding the risks of birth defects, and the discovery of a vaccine. I’m proud to join this bipartisan chorus calling for a strong federal response before Florida hits the warm, wet months that will reinvigorate Zika-carrying mosquito populations and put our communities at greater risk.” A PDF of the letter can be found here, or read below: Dear Mr. President: We urge you to continue to support a comprehensive response across the federal government to protect against the threat of the Zika virus. As of March 29, 43,485 cases of Zika virus disease have been reported in 49 states, the District of Columbia, and three U.S. territories. With cases in nearly every corner of the United States, preventing the spread of Zika virus should be a national priority. As we enter mosquito season, maintaining federal support for vector control, diagnostic testing, and public awareness and education efforts will be critical to stopping the spread of the virus. A robust response to this threat will be especially important to the health and safety of Americans living in regions with large mosquito populations. As you know, Zika virus is transmitted when humans are bitten by infected mosquitos, through blood transfusions, and through sexual contact. Additionally, pregnant women are among some of the most vulnerable populations. While many of the cases reported in the states were acquired abroad, Florida, Texas and the territories experienced local transmission of the virus, requiring a large investment of federal, state and local resources. So far, the CDC has tallied a total of 5,182 cases of Zika virus infection nationwide, with approximately 216 cases in Florida and six cases in Texas from local mosquitoes, and more than 38,000 cases in Puerto Rico and the other territories. Until we have a vaccine, Zika virus will continue to threaten American families with increased risks of birth defects, with the most serious cases presenting life-long challenges and high health care costs. Researchers have also linked Zika infection with neurologic, eye, and heart problems in adults, and there is still much more that we do not know about this virus. Last year, after months of debate, Congress worked together in a bipartisan manner to appropriate $1.1 billion to support our nation’s Zika response. We urge your administration to ensure all funding is appropriately distributed in a timely manner to support efforts to prevent the spread of the Zika virus and expedite vaccine research to protect our constituents from this public health threat. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. We look forward to working with you as we continue the fight against the Zika virus. Sincerely, ###
04.05.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Representatives Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Albio Sires (NJ-08), Gerry Connolly (VA-11), and Gregg Harper (MS-03), Co-Chairs of the Congressional Taiwan Caucus, along with 147 congressional colleagues, sent a letter to President Donald Trump ahead of his upcoming meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping. The letter emphasized the United States’ and Taiwan’s mutual interests and urged the President to reaffirm the Taiwan Relations Act and the Six Assurances as the cornerstone of U.S.-Taiwan bilateral relations. A PDF of the letter can be found here, or read the full text below: Dear Mr. President: We write to emphasize the mutual interests of the United States and our vital strategic partner Taiwan before your upcoming meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping. As co-chairs and members of the Congressional Taiwan Caucus, and other good friends of Taiwan in Congress, we seek to ensure that the United States continues to adhere to the Taiwan Relations Act (TRA) and the Six Assurances – cornerstones of U.S.-Taiwan policy. We also urge your administration to uphold the commitment of every president since the TRA’s passage in 1979 to continue to provide defensive weapons to Taiwan predicated on Taiwan’s demonstrated military needs, and without any prior consultation with Beijing. Taiwan is a vibrant democracy and our tenth largest trading partner. Consistent U.S. policy toward Taiwan is key to sustaining peace, security, and stability in the Asia-Pacific region. We trust that any future discussions will be rooted firmly in the Taiwan Relations Act and the Six Assurances. We wish you success in your impending meeting with President Xi Jinping. Sincerely, Mario Diaz-Balart Member of Congress Albio Sires Member of Congress Gerald E. Connolly Member of Congress Gregg Harper Member of Congress ###
03.30.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement in response to further degradation of democracy and rule of law in Venezuela. “The Maduro regime’s corruption of Venezuela’s judiciary to once again ignore the will of the Venezuelan people and sideline the National Assembly is another shameful assault on democracy and the rule of law. An independent judiciary and representation in government are essential to a democracy. In further degrading them by taking away the National Assembly’s power and placing it in the hands of a corrupted court, the Maduro regime takes another step toward tyranny. “While the Venezuelan people endure escalating shortages, inflation, corruption, and crime, the Maduro regime seeks to seize evermore power. Democracies in the region must demand a restoration of democracy, including a fair, independent judiciary, free expression, and democratically-elected leadership, and must push for an end to Venezuela’s rapid descent into authoritarianism.” ###
03.16.2017	WASHINGTON –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), a senior member of the House Budget and Appropriations Committees, released the following statement in response to President Trump’s FY 18 budget request. “I am eager to carefully review the President's budget request. It is clear this budget attempts to focus on our nation's real fiscal challenges, and it is Congress' responsibility to thoroughly examine how and where we allocate the tax dollars of hard working Americans. Further, this budget request presents an opportunity to have a conversation about our national priorities and the need to address the drivers of our debt. I look forward to Congress exercising its oversight role and ultimately making funding decisions.” ###
03.16.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), a senior member of the House Budget and Appropriations Committees, released the following statement after today’s vote in the House Budget Committee. “Today’s vote was merely a procedural advancement of the bill from the Budget Committee to the Rules Committee, where legislative changes can and must take place. My committee vote does not mean I will support final passage of this legislation as it presently reads. I have clearly stated that I have some serious concerns with the bill in its current form. This isn’t the end of the road, but rather, one step of a long process that will include conference with the Senate. “It is well known the Affordable Care Act is collapsing; out-of-pocket costs and premiums have skyrocketed, insurance companies are leaving the exchanges, and state marketplaces have fewer choices. In Florida’s 25th District, the impact of Obamacare is significant. Residents in two of the three counties I represent, Collier and Hendry, only have one insurance provider, resulting in no choice or competition. I will continue working with my colleagues to ensure the replacement addresses the varying health insurance needs of our country, lowers costs, and bolsters the economy.” ###
03.08.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) delivered the following statement in support of H.R. 1301, Department of Defense Appropriations Act for FY 2017. The legislation passed with a vote of 371-48. Watch the floor speech or read his full remarks, as prepared for delivery. “Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of the FY17 Defense Appropriations bill. I want to start by commending the Chairman of the full Committee and former Chairman of this Subcommittee – Mr. Frelinghuysen – for this commitment to the men and women in uniform and for finalizing a bill that addresses our growing national security challenges. I also want to recognize the good work and leadership of the new subcommittee chairwoman – Ms. Granger. She is a longstanding champion of a strong national defense. Finally, I want to thank the Ranking Members, Ms. Lowey and Mr. Visclosky for their partnership in moving this bill forward “Mr. Speaker, with this bill, Congress fulfills an essential constitutional obligation – to provide for a common defense. This bill does good things for the men and women who serve our nation in the military; it enhances our national security and starts rebuilding our military. This bill fully funds a 2.1% pay raise for the military, instead of the 1.6% requested by the prior Administration. We also target resources for the health care of our service members and their families. We provide important health programs and research into spinal cord, vision, and traumatic brain injuries so we can deliver the tools and best treatment for battlefield wounds. “Throughout the year we’ve heard testimony from our service chiefs about the necessity to address our military's alarming readiness shortfalls. This bill addresses the readiness problems that are making it more and more difficult for our troops to accomplish their mission. We devote resources to prepare our troops for combat and peacetime missions, including flight time and training, to ensure we maintain our military superiority. Lastly, this bill provides the necessary and essential equipment, weapon systems, and platforms needed to maintain and sustain our military superiority in the air, sea, and ground. “Mr. Speaker, I would just end with what I mentioned before: I believe the principal job of the federal government is to defend and protect our country. This Congress has the responsibility to raise, support, provide, and maintain the military forces of the United States. The Defense Appropriations bill before us does just that and it deserves the support of all of us.” ###
03.08.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) received the 2017 Edward R. Roybal Award for Outstanding Public Service from the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials (NALEO). Congressman Diaz-Balart was recognized alongside his brother, former Congressman Lincoln Diaz-Balart. “I am grateful to NALEO for this prestigious award. Your organization is comprised of Latino elected and appointed officials, and to be recognized by my peers from all over the country is truly an honor,” said Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart. “This award is especially humbling because I am receiving it alongside my role model and mentor – my brother, Lincoln. “I'd like to thank NALEO President Pauline Medrano, NALEO Educational Fund Executive Director Arturo Vargas, and the rest of the NALEO board and leadership team for this recognition,” continued Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart. “Representing my community in Congress is one of my greatest privileges, and I will continue to work diligently to advocate for my constituents in Washington.” “NALEO is pleased to honor two distinguished Latino public servants who have made invaluable contributions to the Latino community and nation throughout their accomplished careers,” stated Pauline Medrano, NALEO President and Dallas County Treasurer. “Both Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart and Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart have set the bar for what it means to use public office as an avenue to make positive meaningful change in the lives of immigrants, Latinos and all Americans, exemplifying the true spirit of service demonstrated by the late Congressman Roybal.” Photo Credit: Office of Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart ###
02.28.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement regarding President Trump’s recent remarks on immigration reform. “I am very encouraged by President Trump’s recent comments on immigration reform. It is no secret our country has a broken immigration system. I have said many times that we must come together from both sides of the aisle to find a commonsense solution on immigration reform. It is extremely disappointing that many from both the left and right extremes are quick to criticize the President’s willingness to work with Congress to fix our immigration system. This kind of political gimmickry is unnecessary and unhelpful to a bipartisan, legislative solution. I continue to believe this legislation must strengthen our borders, adhere to the rule of law, offer a permanent and humane solution to those living in the shadows, bolster our economy, and modernize our antiquated visa system. I remain committed and ready to work with the White House and congressional colleagues from both sides of the aisle.” ###
02.21.2017	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement one day before the “Liberty and Life” award is to be given to the Secretary General of the Organization of American States (OAS) Luis Alamgro, and posthumously to former Chilean President Patricio Aylwin. “I commend the Secretary General of the OAS, the Honorable Luis Almagro, for agreeing to accept personally the first ‘Liberty and Life’ award in Havana on February 22, 2017. The creation of this award by youth groups testifies to the vitality, determination, and ingenuity of Cuba’s pro-democracy movement. Oswaldo Paya left the Cuban people a remarkable legacy through his courageous daughter Rosa Maria Paya and the growing movement that continues in his name. The regime’s violent attempt to silence him and end his mission have only amplified his message and strengthened the determination of Cuba’s freedom advocates. “Reports indicate that the Castro regime will take drastic measures to prevent this pro-democracy event from taking place. According to reports, former Chilean parliamentarian and former minister of foreign affairs Mariana Aylwin was prevented from entering Cuba to accept the award on behalf of her late father; former President of Mexico Felipe Calderon was also prevented from traveling to the island; and Cuban activists Julio Alvarez and Felix Fara were arrested. The Castro regime’s malevolent totalitarianism, prohibiting all forms of dissent, has not changed.” ###
02.18.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement on the third anniversary of the politically-motivated imprisonment of Leopoldo Lopez by the Maduro regime in Venezuela. “Despite international condemnation of his unjustifiable imprisonment, Leopoldo Lopez remains a political prisoner of the Maduro regime. Lopez is one of many pro-democracy members of the opposition, including many elected officials, that have been imprisoned for running afoul of the corrupt Maduro regime. As the human rights conditions continue to deteriorate, the integrity of government institutions are further corrupted, and the economy is failing, the Maduro regime lashes out against those who seek to address these mounting failures. I commend the Trump administration for placing tough sanctions on Maduro’s right-hand thug this week, and encourage further pressure on corrupt Venezuelan operatives and human rights abusers. "I was honored to meet with Lopez’s wife, and Mitzy Ledezma, wife of political prisoner Antonio Ledezma, in Washington earlier this week as they travel the world to raise awareness of their husbands' unjust imprisonments. We must continue to work toward restoration of democratic institutions and civil society in Venezuela, which begins with the immediate release of all political prisoners.” ###
02.16.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after President Trump nominated R. Alexander Acosta, Dean of Florida International University Law School, as Secretary of the Department of Labor. “I am excited to learn of Alex Acosta’s nomination for Labor Secretary. He has an impressive record of achievement, having served on the National Labor Relations Board, as well as receiving presidential appointments to both U.S. Attorney for Southern District of Florida and Assistant Attorney General during his career. Alex has also been an exemplary Dean of one of the best law schools in the state, leading FIU to earn the highest bar passage rates in Florida for three years in a row. He is a man of great principle, integrity, and courage, and I am confident he will do an excellent job serving our nation.” ###
02.15.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after President Trump and Vice President Pence met with Lilian Tintori, wife of Venezuelan political prisoner Leopoldo Lopez. "I commend President Trump and Vice President Pence for meeting with the wife of political prisoner Leopoldo Lopez, and for the administration's swift sanction of Tareck El Aissami, Maduro’s right-hand thug and narcotrafficker. The tyrannical and despotic Maduro regime continues to hold Venezuela hostage, forcing deteriorating conditions, perpetrating human rights abuses, and a sinking economy. We must continue to demand the release of Lopez and other activists across the country. Congress continues to stand firmly in solidarity with the heroic Venezuelan people, who can now also count on the steadfast support of the White House." ###
02.13.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after the Trump administration announced sanctions against Tareck El Aissami, the recently named Vice President of Nicolas Maduro’s regime. Last week, Diaz-Balart was one of 34 Members of Congress who sent a letter to President Trump calling for the sanctions against El Aissami. “I thank President Trump and his administration for taking swift action on our letter to sanction a corrupt and dangerous Maduro regime operative. I greatly appreciate the ability to work closely with the White House on such an important issue to our national security within our hemisphere. Human rights abuses and corruption in Venezuela continue to escalate, and El Aissami’s recent appointment as Maduro’s right-hand thug will only worsen conditions for the Venezuelan people. El Aissami is an infamous narcotrafficker under investigation by the U.S. government for drug crimes. “I commend the Trump Administration for taking a strong stand against the oppressive, anti-American Maduro regime, and I look forward to working with the White House in pressing for human rights, rule of law and a restoration of democratic institutions for the Venezuelan people.” ###
02.08.2017	Washington, D.C. — In an effort to better protect families in HUD-assisted housing from lead-based paint hazards, U.S. Senators Susan Collins (R-ME) and Jack Reed (D-RI) and U.S. Representatives Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL25) and David Price (D-NC4) today called upon the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) to produce a report on the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD) programs that address lead-based paint hazards. Recent reports of lead-based paint hazards in HUD-assisted housing have raised concerns about whether HUD has sufficient oversight to ensure that both property owners and public housing agencies are complying with existing regulations pertaining to lead-based paint hazards and whether those regulations are effective. Seventy percent of lead poisonings are a result of dust exposure from lead-based paint in the home, and children, especially those living at or below the poverty line that reside in older homes, are at risk of long-term neurological harm, including reduced IQ, behavioral changes, and reduced educational attainment. “Since the beginning of my Senate service, I have worked to raise awareness and secure funding to address lead-based hazards, which remain one of the most prevalent health issues facing children today,” said Senator Collins. “Once completed, this GAO report will improve our understanding of the gaps in HUD’s enforcement of lead-based paint regulations and enhance our efforts to eradicate this largely preventable health problem.” “Protecting children from lead poisoning must be a national priority. HUD must ensure that children living in assisted housing are protected and that their programs are effective in addressing this problem,” said Senator Reed. “This study by GAO will help us better understand how well HUD’s current programs are working and provide invaluable insight into how to achieve better health outcomes from current programs, close gaps in regulations, increase coordination among federal, state, and local partners, and improve the use of resources to ensure that more children are helped with every dollar spent.” “I am pleased to join my appropriations colleagues in requesting this report from the GAO. Lead-based paint continues to pose a hazard to children across the country, and the recent accounts of toxic paint in HUD-assisted housing are alarming. Lead-based paint poisoning is preventable, and it is vital that we as policymakers gain critical information about the best and most effective uses of federal funding to combat this issue,” said Congressman Diaz-Balart. “Lead-based paint hazards in HUD-assisted housing pose a grave threat to the health of vulnerable individuals, especially children. I hope that the GAO will conduct a thorough and comprehensive audit that will help inform our continued efforts to address lead hazards,” said Congressman Price. The Senate and House Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (THUD) oversees funding for federal housing programs. A version of this study was included in fiscal year 2017 report language by both the Senate and House THUD Appropriations subcommittees. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) estimates that at least 4 million households have children living in them that are being exposed to high levels of lead and that approximately 24 million homes in the United States have deteriorated lead-based paint and lead-contaminated dust. The full text of the letter can be read here. ###
02.01.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after introducing legislation that would require the United States Postal Service to create a unique ZIP Code for the Town of Miami Lakes, Florida. Last year, Diaz-Balart supported similar legislation which passed the House, but did not become law. “I am pleased to introduce legislation similar to what the House passed last year that will create a unique ZIP Code for Miami Lakes. For far too long, Miami Lakes residents have dealt with the negative impact of lacking a unique ZIP Code for their town. From higher insurance rates to election confusion, there are a number of reasons why a dedicated ZIP Code is necessary. It has been a privilege to partner with Mayor Manny Cid as we continue to work towards a resolution. Even after encountering several roadblocks and denials from the United States Postal Service, he continued to find other options. I am grateful for his dedication to serving the Town of Miami Lakes, and look forward to seeing this bill through the committees of jurisdiction for a floor vote.” The text of the bill can be found here. ###
01.30.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement in response to President Trump’s executive order pertaining to the Department of Homeland Security. “I am struck by the double standard and hypocrisy of those who are offended by this executive order, but who failed to challenge President Obama when he took similar action against Cuban refugees; especially since President Obama’s action was meant to appease the Castro regime and not for national security reasons. “While it is always legitimate to express concerns with presidential executive orders, I understand the President’s primary responsibility is to keep the American people safe. The ban is only temporary until the Administration can review and enact the necessary procedures to vet immigrants from these countries. The ban is based on countries the Obama administration identified as ‘countries of concern’ and not based on a religious test.” ###
01.25.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) today released the following statement after President Trump signed two executive orders. “President Trump is fulfilling his promise to the American people to secure the borders of the United States. I stand ready to work with my congressional colleagues and the administration on legislation that will allow millions of hardworking people who have not committed crimes to come out of the shadows and get right with the law.” ###
01.13.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after the House passed a budget resolution which would begin the process of repealing and replacing Obamacare. "Today, House Republicans passed what is just the first step in replacing our flawed and broken healthcare system. It has negatively affected families across the country, and I refuse to accept this status quo. Premiums and deductibles have skyrocketed, coverage options have significantly decreased, and many insurance providers have left the exchanges. 70% of the original state exchanges have collapsed completely. Rest assured that I and my Republican colleagues will not allow the healthcare market to continue to crumble. "Americans deserve to see the doctors they choose at a price they can afford. I will continue to work with my colleagues and the incoming administration to make coverage affordable, flexible, and patient-centered." ###
01.12.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement condemning the Obama administration announcement that it would end special privileges for Cubans who attempt to escape the brutal oppression of the Castro regime. "With just eight days left in his administration, President Obama has found one more way to frustrate the democratic aspirations of the Cuban people and provide yet another shameful concession to the Castro regime. Under President Obama's misguided view, after having removed the Castro regime from the state sponsor of terror list and granting diplomatic recognition, the next logical step is denying oppressed Cubans the presumption of political asylum. "Since 1966, the Cuban Refugee Adjustment Act has provided a lifeline to generations of Cubans fleeing oppression. Many made the treacherous journey to begin their lives anew in freedom, and others perished trying to escape. In addition, the Cuban Medical Professional Parole Program provided a way for doctors forced to work under inhumane conditions for paltry salaries in foreign lands to escape their servitude. "President Obama's policy toward the Castro regime has not improved human rights or increased liberty on the island. To the contrary, documented political arrests reached close to 10,000 in 2016 as renowned activists such as Berta Soler, Danilo Maldonado Machado "El Sexto," and labor activists including Ivan Carrillo Hernandez suffered brutal arrests just in the past few weeks. El Sexto remains in prison today and his American lawyer, Kim Motley, was harassed and interrogated while in Cuba simply for representing him. Cubans are leaving the island in record numbers, and many of the 53 who were released as part of the Obama-Castro deal were subsequently rearrested. "President Obama's numerous concessions and extension of diplomatic recognition to the murderous Castro regime does not constitute an achievement. To the contrary, his policy has been a succession of betrayals of America's longstanding commitment to human rights and freedom, and a betrayal of the Cuban people who have suffered under oppression for far too long. This last act of diminishing lifelines to Cubans languishing in totalitarianism is one final despicable betrayal of a people who deserve better from an American president.” ###
01.10.2017	WASHINGTON – El congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (FL-25) hizo la siguiente declaración después de que el Comité Directivo Republicano de la Cámara aprobara su reelección como Presidente del Subcomité de Asignaciones de Transporte, Vivienda y Desarrollo Urbano para el 115o Congreso. "Es un honor presidir el Subcomité de Asignaciones de Transporte, Vivienda y Desarrollo Urbano. En los últimos dos años, pude dar prioridad a programas de vivienda y transporte vitales para nuestra comunidad. Bien sea apoyando asistencia para personas sin hogar en el sur de Florida, como abogando con éxito por la designación del suroeste de la Florida como una ‘Zona de promesa’, me siento satisfecho con lo que he podido lograr. La presidencia de este subcomité también otorga a nuestra comunidad una línea directa al liderazgo de dos importantes departamentos del Gabinete. "Al dar la bienvenida a una nueva Administración, me alegra poder continuar trabajando en asuntos de transporte e infraestructura, ayudando a cubrir las necesidades urgentes en nuestra comunidad y en todo el país. "Doy las gracias por esta oportunidad al Presidente del Comité de Asignaciones de Presupuestos, el Congresista Frelinghuysen, y estoy deseando continuar nuestro trabajo en el 115o Congreso". ###
01.10.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after the House Republican Steering Committee approved his re-appointment as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations for the 115th Congress. “I am honored to continue serving as the Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee. In the last two years, we were able to prioritize vital housing programs and transportation initiatives our community depends on. Whether it is supporting critical homeless assistance grants for South Florida to successfully advocating for Southwest Florida’s designation as a Promise Zone, I am proud of the work I have accomplished. This chairmanship also gives our community a direct line to the leadership of two important Cabinet departments. “As we welcome a new Administration, I am excited to continue prioritizing transportation and infrastructure, helping address urgent needs in our community and across the country. “I thank Chairman Frelinghuysen for this opportunity, and I look forward to continue working with him in the 115th Congress.” ###
01.06.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement after reports of an active shooter situation at Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport. “My thoughts are with the victims and their families in the wake of this senseless act of violence. As details continue to emerge, I will work with local, state, and federal authorities as they conduct their investigations. I also want to thank the first responders on the scene for their courage and sacrifice.” ###
01.06.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-03) announced he would not seek re-election at the end of the 115th Congress. “Sam Johnson is a dedicated public servant and a loyal friend. His years spent in the Armed Forces and at the hands of the enemy at the Hanoi Hilton did not disillusion him. Like a true patriot, Sam came back fighting for our country, first in the Air Force, then later in Congress. One of the biggest privileges I’ve had in life is the opportunity to work with and get to know this American legend and hero. “With deep admiration: thank you for your service, Congressman. You will be greatly missed in the halls of the People’s House.” ###
01.05.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H. Res. 11, which denounces and objects to the recently passed anti-Israel United Nations Security Council resolution. “By refusing to veto the United Nations Security Council vote, the Obama Administration once again undermined Israel, one of our strongest allies. I am proud to have voted for today's House Resolution that supports Israel and bilateral negotiations towards a peace agreement. Our current President has shamefully failed to stand up to our enemies and defend our allies. I look forward to working with President-elect Trump to reverse eight years of egregious foreign policy that has weakened our country and our allies, and emboldened our enemies.” ###
12.22.2016	NAPLES – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after it was announced the Palmetto Ridge High School Marching Pride was selected to participate in the 2017 Presidential Inauguration Parade. Diaz-Balart sent a letter in support in November that was included as part of the Marching Pride’s application. "I congratulate the Palmetto Ridge High School Marching Pride on their invitation to participate in the Inaugural Parade. I was proud to have supported the Marching Pride through the application process, and was impressed by their performance and lengthy list of awards. I look forward to welcoming them to Washington as they showcase their talents for the American people to enjoy." ###
12.16.2016	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement to mark two years since President Obama began his policy of appeasement toward the Castro regime. Since his policy began, oppression on the island has increased significantly, and thousands of Cubans are risking their lives to escape. "Two years since President Obama's full appeasement policy toward the Castro dictatorship began, conditions on the island have only worsened. Political arrests have reached a staggering 9,484 this year, while thousands more have risked their lives to escape. President Obama's policy encourages U.S. currency to the nearly exclusive benefit of state-run industries including those run by the Cuban military, and has done nothing to help the Cuban people. To the contrary, his policy has further emboldened the regime to intensify its oppression and continue its anti-American activities. I look forward to working with the incoming President to reverse this failed approach and pursue a policy that furthers American interests and respects the democratic aspirations of the Cuban people." ###
12.12.2016	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) announced the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd place winners of the 2016 Congressional App Challenge for Florida’s 25th District. The winners were selected by an independent panel of local technology and STEM leaders who served as judges. From the 25th District, twenty-one students from three schools submitted seven original student-created apps. 1st Place: “Deepstone” created by Blake Anderson and William Pembleton from Gulf Coast High School in Naples. (Pictured with Congressman Diaz-Balart and Miami-Dade County School Board Member Susie V. Castillo) 2nd Place: “HW Tracker” created by Carolina Aguilar, Juancruz Gamero, and Nicholas Schnoor from Ronald Reagan High School in Doral. (Juancruz and Carolina pictured with Congressman Diaz-Balart) 3rd Place: “Hit or Miss” created by Elizabeth Berenguer, Albert Charles, and Emilio De Leon from Jose Marti MAST Academy in Hialeah. (Emilio and Elizabeth pictured with Congressman Diaz-Balart) The Congressional App Challenge is a congressional initiative, managed by the Internet Education Foundation [IEF], a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization. It was first established by the Congressional Internet Caucus in 2014, and Co-Chairs Rep. Bob Goodlatte and Rep. Anna G. Eshoo spearheaded the effort. In 2016, the App Challenge had 123 successful App Challenges hosted by Members of Congress, over 2100 student participants, and more than 650 original student-created apps submitted. ###
12.08.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after the passage of S.612, the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation (WIIN) Act. “I am pleased the House passed this legislation that is vital to our water infrastructure. This bill includes the Water Resources Development Act of 2016, containing several provisions that positively impact our Southern Florida waterways and Everglades National Park. By investing in our nation’s ports, dams, and drinking water services, we are not only helping the local economy, but also the families across the country that rely on having easy access to safe drinking water. The legislation also focuses on reducing the backlog of projects the Army Corps of Engineers have, saving taxpayer dollars and allowing the most important and necessary projects to be prioritized. “I congratulate Chairman Shuster on the passage of this bill, and I look forward to continue working with him to preserve Florida’s natural treasure for future generations.” The Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act of 2016 includes the following items that directly impact South Florida: $976 million for the Central Everglades Planning Project (CEPP), a part of the Central Everglades Restoration Plan (CERP) $308 million for Picayune Strand restoration project water flow upgrades $220 million for Port Everglades dredging ###
12.07.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after President-elect Donald Trump nominated General John Kelly to serve as Secretary of Homeland Security in his administration. "I had the pleasure of working with and getting to know General John Kelly while he was commander of SOUTHCOM. Now more than ever, we need someone at the helm of DHS who will ensure the United States is protected from any threats, whether domestic or foreign. General Kelly’s extraordinary knowledge, expertise, and leadership will be critical as he continues to serve our country in this new capacity, and I commend President-elect Trump for nominating him to serve as Homeland Security Secretary." ###
12.05.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart, Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement after President-elect Donald Trump nominated Dr. Ben Carson to serve as Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. “I thank Dr. Ben Carson for his willingness to serve our country as HUD Secretary. He will bring an outsider’s perspective, helping to shake things up so the agency can better serve families across the United States. Dr. Carson has a true passion for helping people, and I look forward to working with him to improve the quality and efficiency of our housing programs.” ###
11.30.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after the passage of the 21st Century Cures Act. The bill also included the legislative language of H.R. 2646, the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act. “Today, the House voted to upgrade to our healthcare infrastructure, positively impacting Americans across the country. This bill expedites the research and development for drugs that treat rare diseases, encourages data sharing that will accelerate progress for treatments and cures, and authorizes funding for both Vice President Biden's Cancer Moonshot and CARA, a bill recently signed into law that combats our nation's harrowing opioid crisis. In order to fight diseases in the 21st century, we need to ensure healthcare providers have the proper resources. I'm pleased the bill also includes the legislative language of Congressman Tim Murphy's Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act, a bill I am a cosponsor of. By updating antiquated healthcare and mental health policies to better fit the needs of patients and their families, we can provide better care for those who are silently pleading for help. “I congratulate Chairman Upton and Congressman Murphy on the passage of this bill, and I look forward to continue working with them to provide better healthcare solutions for our country.” ###
11.30.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after the passage of H.R. 6303. Diaz-Balart successfully included a provision in the legislation to establish a dedicated ZIP Code for the Town of Miami Lakes. “I am pleased that my provision to create a unique ZIP Code for Miami Lakes was included in this legislation. For years, Miami Lakes residents have dealt with many issues, ranging from higher insurance rates to election confusion, because the town does not have its own dedicated ZIP Code. Credit must be given to Mayor-elect Manny Cid, who made it a priority to resolve this for his constituency. After being turned away by the U.S. Postal Service several times, he reached out to me to see what could be done at the federal level, and I must say, it has been an absolute privilege working with Mayor-elect Cid. His dedication and perseverance on this issue is admirable, and I am glad that together we were able to get this important legislation passed in the House of Representatives. “I'd like to thank Chairman Chaffetz for his leadership on this issue, and for the assistance his committee staff provided throughout this process.” ###
11.29.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart, Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement after President-elect Donald Trump nominated former Labor Secretary Elaine Chao to serve as Transportation Secretary in his administration. "I commend President-elect Trump for selecting Elaine Chao to serve as the Secretary of the Department of Transportation. Elaine is a bright, capable woman, and her previous Cabinet experience will be helpful in this role. I look forward to working with her to improve our nation's infrastructure to best serve our country's needs." ###
11.26.2016	MIAMI -- Representatives Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), and Carlos Curbelo (FL-27) released the following statement after the death of Cuban dictator Fidel Castro. Rep. Ros-Lehtinen: “The day that the people, both inside the island and out, have waited for has arrived: A tyrant is dead and a new beginning can dawn on the last remaining communist bastion of the Western hemisphere. The message is now very clear to those who think they will continue to misrule Cuba through oppression and fear. Enough is enough. The Cuban people have been shortchanged for too long to continue down this reviled path. Those who still rule Cuba with an iron grip may attempt to delay the island’s liberation, but they cannot stop it. Castro’s successors cannot hide and must not be allowed to hide beneath cosmetic changes that will only lengthen the malaise of the Cuban nation. No regime, no matter who leads it, will have a shred of legitimacy if it has not been chosen by the people of Cuba in free and fair elections. Fidel’s apologists around the world can help to restore freedom and human rights for Cuba by joining the call for the new regime to free the hundreds of freedom fighters and pro-democracy activists still locked in Castro’s prisons. Not until the gulags are closed, elections are held, political prisoners are freed and liberty is restored can the United States lawfully end its embargo against the communist regime in Havana. The time to act is now. We must seize the moment and help write a new chapter in the history of Cuba; that of a Cuba that is free, democratic, and prosperous. A Cuba where faith in God has prevailed over tyranny, a Cuba whose people rose up to meet the challenges placed before them and overcame them through sheer patriotism and love of country.” Rep. Diaz-Balart: “Today, a tyrant is dead. Although his totalitarian dictatorship deeply scarred a once prosperous nation, his death ushers in a renewed hope that the Cuban people finally will be free. Now we must work even harder toward achieving liberty, basic rights, and free, multi-party elections for the Cuban people. "The dictator has the blood of innocents on his hands, and his dictatorship is guilty of torture, murder and numerous other atrocities. As an evil dictator finally faces his Creator, the malevolent Castro dictatorship continues. Shamefully, President Obama has spent the past eight years attempting to cede important leverage to the ailing Castro regime. Despite President Obama's collaboration and betrayal of America's longstanding mission to promote freedom, the American people continue their strong solidarity with the Cuban people in their struggle for free elections, human rights, and liberty.” Rep. Curbelo: "Cuban dictator Fidel Castro terrorized the people of Cuba for decades with religious and political persecution, oppression of free speech and free press, and disrespect for basic human rights. His passing marks the end of a long, horrifying chapter in Cuba's history. "For the past 50-plus years Castro and his regime undermined American interests in Latin America and on our home-front. His anti-American policies and relationships with brutal regimes like Iran and North Korea have proved a significant threat to our national security time and time again. Policies that have not changed despite the Obama Administration's endless concessions to the regime over the past two years. "Now more than ever, the people of Cuba need our solidarity. Our country and all of our democratic allies must demand political reforms that secure the human rights of all Cubans." ####
11.16.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after it was announced that Miami Dade College President Eduardo Padron would receive the Presidential Medal of Freedom next week. “Eduardo Padron has done an outstanding job as President of Miami Dade College. Under his leadership, the college has expanded to seven campuses around the county, serving over 165,000 students. Eduardo strives to serve Miami Dade College's largest student population; MDC enrolls and graduates more minorities than any other higher education institution in the country. This recognition is an extraordinary testament to his legacy of service. I look forward to continue working with him to ensure South Florida students receive a world class education.” ###
11.10.2016	MIAMI – Today, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) honored a group of local veterans for their service in the United States Armed Forces. The Congressional Veteran Commendation is a nominations-based program designed to recognize the wartime sacrifices and peacetime community involvement of veterans residing in Florida’s 25th Congressional District. The honorees, listed below, will be interviewed and their wartime collections will be added to the Veterans History Project, sponsored by the Library of Congress. Sergeant Gary E. Cardenas – United States Army, Hialeah, Florida Sergeant Miller Couse – United States Army, Clewiston, Florida Colonel Rogelio Barbaro Figueroa – United States Air Force, Pembroke Pines, Florida Master Sergeant Joshua Adam Hobson – United States Air Force, Pembroke Pines, Florida Congressman Diaz-Balart with Congressional Veteran Commendation honorees from left to right: Master Sergeant Joshua Adam Hobson, Sergeant Miller Couse, and Sergeant Gary E. Cardenas. Not pictured: Colonel Rogelio Barbaro Figueroa ###
11.04.2016	NAPLES – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after the Army Corps of Engineers announced they have accredited parts of the Herbert Hoover Dike. Last summer, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) implemented new flood zone maps that put Clewiston into a higher risk flood zone, resulting in higher flood insurance premiums. This week, Army Corps announced accreditation of sections of the Herbert Hoover Dike, which would positively impact Clewiston residents. Congressman Diaz-Balart has since sent a letter to FEMA requesting immediate revision of the maps. “For the last year, I have worked tirelessly with Clewiston city leaders, the Army Corps of Engineers, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), and industry stakeholders to bring fairness to homeowners and businesses in Clewiston. The current flood maps zoned Clewiston into a higher risk flood zone, crippling the community with much higher flood insurance premiums. In early 2015, I had implored FEMA to delay any change to the flood maps until ongoing rehabilitation projects at the Herbert Hoover Dike (HHD) were completed. I am grateful that after all of the hard work, the Army Corps has accredited parts of the HHD, and urge FEMA to update the current flood maps. "I would like to thank Mayor Phillip Roland, City Manager Al Perry, City Engineer Tommy Perry, and the Clewiston City Commission, particularly, Commissioner Mali Gardner, for their efforts on this issue. I will continue to work with FEMA to ensure the changes, and therefore the new rates, take effect expeditiously,” said Congressman Diaz-Balart. “We are appreciative of Congressman Diaz-Balart and his staff for their commitment to work on the town’s behalf after hearing our concerns regarding the new flood maps that we believed did not take into consideration the on-going levee work and the city’s infrastructure. The community will benefit from this collaborative effort and we look forward to working with the Congressman to see this process through,” said City of Clewiston Mayor Phillip Roland. ###
11.03.2016	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, was today recognized with the Change Maker Award by the Homeless Trust. Diaz-Balart, who has served in this role since 2014, has worked with his colleagues to provide additional opportunities for Broward, Collier, Hendry, and Miami-Dade Counties to compete for federal grants. Diaz-Balart has prioritized housing programs that serve the most vulnerable in our community, including homeless and voucher programs. “I am humbled to receive the Change Maker Award from the Homeless Trust. My work as Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee is fulfilling, but it is when I am able to help better serve South Florida in this role that I know I am making a direct impact on our community. I’m fortunate to work with so many dedicated community partners, including the Homeless Trust, who are passionate about serving South Florida. Federal resources are often tight, and I’m steadfast in supporting effective and efficient programs that best provide for the most vulnerable populations while protecting taxpayer dollars. I am honored to work with organizations like the Homeless Trust and leaders like Ron Book, and remain committed to prioritizing housing programs that serve the most vulnerable in our community,” said Congressman Diaz-Balart. “November 3rd is Homeless Awareness Day in Miami-Dade County. It is the largest community-wide event in the US focused on homelessness and involves more than 5,000 volunteers and more than 70 events in one 24-hour period. As we prepare for that day, we simply cannot overlook the tremendous role you played in aiding the homeless of our community in 2016. As Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Subcommittee, you went above and beyond, expending time and energy to take a stand for our community and others hit hard and unexpectedly by the HUD funding cuts. Because of your valiant and immediate efforts to come to our aide, we want to present you personally with a coveted “Homeless Trust Change Maker Award” at our business breakfast on that day,” said Homeless Trust Chairman Ron Book. Congressman Diaz-Balart accepts the Change Maker Award from the Homeless Trust. ###
11.01.2016	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after participating in a roundtable with local restaurant owners at Sergio’s, hosted by the Florida Restaurant and Lodging Association and the National Restaurant Association. Florida’s 25th District is home to 1,144 eating and drinking establishments, employing more than 21,000 people throughout the District. “I am pleased to join the Florida Restaurant and Lodging Association, the National Restaurant Association, and restaurant owners from our community this afternoon. Our local businesses owners are the heart of South Florida, and these roundtables are the perfect opportunity to listen to their concerns, learn about the regulations that are impacting their businesses, and get feedback as to what we can be doing in Washington to lessen the burden. From our tax code to cumbersome regulations, we need to update and reform government programs so that they work for families, small business owners, and individuals, and not the other way around,” said Congressman Diaz-Balart. “We thank the Congressman for taking time out of his busy schedule to meet with restaurateurs from across the district today. As an industry that operates on thin margins, running restaurants can be challenging business. These kinds of opportunities for direct dialogue with our elected officials are so important in explaining how government policies impact our day to day operations,” said Carlos Gazitua, President & CEO of Sergio's.Congressman Diaz-Balart talks to local restaurant owners about federal policy that impacts their businesses. Congressman Diaz-Balart joins local restaurant owners for a photo after participating in a roundtable hosted by the Florida Restaurant and Lodging Association and the National Restaurant Association. ###
10.26.2016	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after the Obama administration decided to have the United States abstain from a United Nations General Assembly vote condemning sanctions against the Castro regime. “In yet another shameless concession to the Castro regime, President Obama's administration abstained from the vote to condemn the embargo at the United Nations. As our nation's chief executive, the President is entrusted to uphold the law, even those laws which he does not approve. As U.S. law states, sanctions against the Castro regime must remain in place until conditions are met, such as the liberation of all political prisoners, legalization of the press, labor unions, and political parties, and free, fair elections. Sadly, the Castro regime has failed even those basic conditions. President Obama's repeated decision to appease ruthless, anti-American dictators is appalling. President Obama should stand in solidarity with the Cuban people in their struggle for freedom, rather than siding once again with their oppressors.” ###
10.21.2016	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement calling on the Organization of American States (OAS) and the Obama administration to hold the Maduro regime accountable for ending the referendum campaign in Venezuela, persecuting the opposition, and widespread human rights violations. “The Maduro regime’s decision to halt the referendum campaign and further persecute the opposition is a direct assault on democracy and the fundamental rights of the Venezuelan people. Rule of law, judicial institutions, independent media and civil society have been assailed, while opposition leaders are repressed and imprisoned. The laws passed by the National Assembly are systematically ignored. “Following numerous failures of diplomacy and dialogue, these and other egregious violations constitute an impairment of democratic and constitutional order which demands immediate consequences under the Inter-American Democratic Charter. The OAS Secretary General already invoked Article 20 of the Charter in May and issued a scathing report condemning the Maduro regime’s mounting failures. His report recommended that a referendum take place this year. However, little action was taken by the OAS members and the situation in Venezuela has further declined. “At the OAS, the United States should demand measures to hold the Maduro regime accountable, and restore democracy and constitutional order in Venezuela. In the U.S., the Obama administration must vigorously enforce sanctions provided by Congress in the Venezuela Defense of Human Rights and Civil Society Act, which Congress extended earlier this year. As the act provides, anyone who participates in human rights abuses must face tough consequences. “The Maduro regime has propelled a once prosperous nation into a downward spiral that is having calamitous consequences for the Venezuelan people. Sadly, the resource-rich nation of Venezuela is suffering from a rapidly contracting economy with skyrocketing inflation that has compounded the Venezuelan people’s suffering. By blocking the referendum and cracking down on the opposition, the Maduro regime shows that it is exceedingly weak and would not survive a challenge. We must not allow this blatant power grab and shameful assault on democracy to stand.” ###
10.21.2016	OKLAHOMA CITY, OK – Senator James Lankford (R-OK) and Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) today sent a letter to President Obama, stating their profound concern regarding the recent Presidential Policy Directive with the communist Castro regime in Cuba. On October 14, the President issued the directive to ease the economic embargo between America and Cuba. The directive is an overreach of Executive authority regarding congressionally-enacted sanctions with Cuba, and it contradicts America’s commitment to human rights. A PDF of the letter is available here, and the full text is below:October 21, 2016 President Barack Obama President of the United States of America The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We write to express our profound concern regarding your recent Presidential Policy Directive which further seeks to weaken the congressionally-enacted sanctions against the communist Castro regime. These changes, which your Administration alleges are intended to “help create more economic opportunity,” circumvent current law yet again and sidestep Congress and the American people. Since you laid out your vision for reestablishing diplomatic relations with Cuba in December 2014, human rights conditions in the country have worsened. As former Treasury official and executive director of Cuba Democracy Advocates, Mauricio Claver-Carone, noted in front of the House Committee on Agriculture in September, political arrests in Cuba have intensified, Internet connectivity has dropped, and religious freedom violations have increased tenfold since the policy change was announced.[1] The on-island Cuban Commission for Human Rights and National Reconciliation, documented 8,616 political arrests in 2015, and 8,505 political arrests through September of this year.[2] According to Christian Solidarity Worldwide (CSW), 2,000 churches were declared illegal and 100 were designated for demolition last year.[3] In just the first half of 2016, CSW documented 1,606 separate violations of religious freedom in Cuba.[4] Additionally, several of the prisoners released by Cuba as part of the announcement of the reestablishment of diplomatic relations were rearrested with even longer prison sentences, according to your State Department’s own human rights report.[5] It is also deeply disturbing that many pro-democracy women activists, such as the Ladies in White, are routinely imprisoned.[6] Furthermore, the Castro regime has shown no inclination to end its rogue, anti-American activities. It was caught be smuggling 240 tons of military weapons to North Korea in 2013, which a U.N. panel of experts determined was the largest violation of sanctions against that country to date.[7] The Castro regime in August and September 2016 deepened ties with Iran,[8] and has allowed Russian spy ships to dock from its territory.[9] Russia also announced earlier this month that it is considering opening a military base in Cuba.[10] The Director of National Intelligence, General James R. Clapper, testified in February 2016 before the Senate Armed Services committee that the Castro dictatorship remained an espionage threat on par with Iran, behind only China and Russia.[11] As the American people rightly have many questions regarding your continued circumvention of the congressionally-enacted embargo on Cuba, we respectfully request you provide an answer in writing to the following questions no later than October 31, 2016: Section 204(a) of Cuban Liberty and Democratic Solidarity (LIBERTAD) Act of 1996 (P.L. 104-114) states that the embargo on Cuba may be lifted only pursuant to certification that a genuine transition government in Cuba is in power. As there is no democratically-elected government in power in Cuba, please explain how your policy of weakening sanctions adheres to both the letter and the spirit of this law. Were any of the changes to the Cuban Assets Control Regulations (CACR) or Export Administration Regulations (EAR) announced on October 14, 2016 requested by any member of the Castro dictatorship? Did any other entity approach you or any U.S. government official directly or indirectly in support of these changes prior to them being announced? In authorizing “all transactions incident to the processing and payment of credit and debit cards” while Americans are traveling to Cuba, how will your Administration ensure compliance with section 103 of the LIBERTAD Act, which prohibits credit and financing to any person involving confiscated property which is claimed by a U.S. national? What procedures and safeguards are in place at the Department of the Treasury, and other federal agencies, to ensure that U.S. law is followed and that confiscated properties are not trafficked as defined in the Act? How many total outstanding claims are there against the Castro regime for confiscation of property from U.S. claimants? Are you communicating to U.S. businesses the litigation risk involved in trafficking expropriated property in Cuba? What steps is your administration taking to ensure that trademarks belonging to U.S. companies are not adversely affected, or possibly further exploited or expropriated, by your policy of allowing imports of rum and tobacco products? Is your Administration in full compliance with section 201(b) of the LIBERTAD Act, which requires U.S. diplomatic personnel to communicate the reasons for the economic embargo on Cuba and encourage foreign officials to cooperate more effectively with the embargo? If so, please explain what steps your Administration is taking to execute this law. You have made it clear that you oppose current U.S. law in regard to sanctions against the Castro regime. However, absent further action by Congress, it is imperative that your administration act in a way that is consistent with the laws passed by the American people’s representatives in Congress and signed into law by a previous president. We encourage you and your administration, in the waning days of your presidency, to provide at least as much transparency and engagement with the U.S. Congress as you apparently have cultivated with the Castro dictatorship. Sincerely, James Lankford United States Senator Mario Diaz-Balart United States Congressman [1] https://agriculture.house.gov/uploadedfiles/claver-carone_testimony.pdf [2] https://www.diariodecuba.com/derechos-humanos/1475823299_25838.html [3] https://www.csw.org.uk/2016/01/11/press/2948/article.htm [4] https://www.csw.org.uk/2016/08/16/news/3227/article.htm [5] https://www.state.gov/documents/organization/253217.pdf [6] https://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/obama-cuba-civil-rights-activists_us_56ef405de4b084c67220a5e0 [7] https://www.un.org/ga/search/view_doc.asp?symbol=S/2014/147 [8] https://www.aei.org/publication/iranian-envoy-shoring-up-ties-on-us-doorstep/; https://www.usnews.com/news/world/articles/2016-09-19/iran-leader-meets-with-fidel-castro-during-stop-in-havana [9] https://www.foxnews.com/politics/2015/09/03/russian-spy-ship-spotted-near-us-sub-base.html [10] https://www.reuters.com/article/us-russia-military-bases-idUSKCN1270PN [11] https://www.armed-services.senate.gov/hearings/16-02-09-worldwide-threats, at approximately the 37-minute mark.
10.14.2016	MIAMI—Congressman Diaz-Balart (FL-25)released the following statement after the Obama Administration announced further concessions to encourage business with the Castro Dictatorship. "Once again, the Obama administration seeks to appease the Castro dictators with weakened sanctions, and justifies the policy by conflating the Cuban people with the brutal dictatorship that oppresses them. It is false to pretend that doing business with the Castro regime helps the Cuban people. Instead, and in contravention of U.S. law, the new regulations provide a boost to the Castro brothers’ state-owned monopolies. Right now, the American people are preparing to exercise the fundamental right to vote. In contrast, the illegitimate Castro regime will continue to suppress expression, tighten its grip on power, and harass, beat, detain, and imprison pro-democracy activists. Just last month, there were 570 documented political arrests in Cuba, for a total of at least 8,505 so far this year. President Obama should pursue a policy that empowers the Cuban people and encourages pro-democracy activists, rather than enriching and embracing those who oppress them.” ###
10.13.2016	MIAMI – Representatives Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), Carlos Curbelo (FL-26), Frederica Wilson (FL-24), and Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement after sending a letter to Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Burwell requesting that recently appropriated Zika funds be disbursed immediately to affected areas, including Florida. Miami-Dade County is the first confirmed location of local transmission in the continental United States. Read the letter, which was led by Diaz-Balart, here. Rep. Diaz-Balart: “South Florida is ground zero for the local transmission of the Zika virus in the continental United States, and I’m working to ensure that adequate federal resources are part of the response. Now that Congress has appropriated funds to fight the Zika virus, we cannot allow the money to sit unspent. Both the state of Florida and Miami-Dade County have spent millions in Zika response, and federal dollars are urgently needed to continue these prevention and treatment programs. By collaborating with HHS, we can make sure these funds are disbursed immediately to the most affected areas. Together, local, state, and federal governments can work towards the eradication of this dangerous disease.” Rep. Ros-Lehtinen: “Our South Florida Congressional delegation worked together to secure more than $1 billion in critical federal funding to fight the Zika epidemic plaguing our community. However, our community remains ground zero for the local transmission of Zika in the United States. The federal government must do more to ensure an efficient and quick disbursement of funds to best aid South Florida in the fight against this threat. It is crucial that some of those funds go to reimburse our local governments that took the lead on Zika prevention and eradication efforts at a time when the federal government was paralyzed by political posturing.” Rep. Curbelo: “It is imperative that resources be directed toward the state of Florida as soon as possible to eradicate the Zika virus. As ground zero for local transmission, Florida must have the necessary tools to prevent the spread of the virus, which has been linked to devastating health conditions. I am proud of the efforts by local leaders, and I am pleased to join my colleagues to urge the Department of Health and Human Services to quickly disburse these funds.” Rep. Wilson: “Until the Zika virus ceases to exist or there is a vaccine available to prevent another outbreak, efforts to educate our constituents, treat those who’ve been infected, and combat the virus must move at full speed. That cannot happen without adequate resources, which should be disbursed as quickly as possible. In addition, the local governments and organizations that stretched their resources to the limit during the past several months working so hard on every aspect of fighting the virus, from outreach to education to treatment, need to be reimbursed as soon as possible. Wynwood is in my district, so I witnessed firsthand the adverse effect Zika had on my constituents’ physical and economic well-being. As the epicenter of the virus in South Florida, this community has suffered enough and will greatly benefit from the good these funds will do as it continues to rebound.” ###
10.05.2016	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after Miami-Dade County was awarded a $960,000 grant from the Federal Transit Administration’s Pilot Program for Transit Oriented Development (TOD) Planning. In August, Diaz-Balart spoke with DOT Deputy Secretary Victor Mendez to express his strong support for Miami-Dade’s application. Diaz-Balart serves as the Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, and is the most recent South Floridian to hold that powerful post since former Congressman Bill Lehman, who served until 1993. “I am pleased to announce that Miami-Dade County was awarded close to a million dollars towards transit oriented development planning along the East-West Transit Corridor. These federal resources can be used to further integrate land use policies and identify multi-modal infrastructure needs for transit oriented development along the corridor. The East-West Corridor is a critical component of the Miami-Dade County’s Strategic Miami Area Rapid Transit (SMART) Plan, and can provide South Floridians with additional transportation options along State Road 836. As a senior member of the influential Appropriations Committee, I'm committed to continuing working together with Miami-Dade leadership so that we can better position our community to compete for vital and much needed transportation dollars.” "I commend Mayor Gimenez, Transportation Chairman Bovo, and Transit Director Bravo for working towards innovative transportation solutions, and I look forward to continuing working with them.” Miami-Dade County’s project was selected competitively for a total cost of $1.2 million with an 80% federal & 20% local cost share. ###
09.28.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after the passage of H.R. 5303, the Water Resources Development Act of 2016 (WRDA). “I am pleased to have supported this legislation that invests in our nation’s water infrastructure projects. Across the country, our ports and waterways play a vital role in the economy, as well as in providing a safe and reliable source of drinking water for our communities. As Co-Chair of the Everglades Caucus, I worked with my colleagues to ensure inclusion of the Central Everglades Planning Project (CEPP), keeping critical Everglades restoration and preservation projects on track. The Picayune Strand restoration project was also included, assisting with water flow throughout Southwest Florida and benefiting wildlife habitats and the local ecosystem. Additionally, Port Everglades will be deepened, bringing more jobs and commerce to South Florida, while expanding one of our busiest ports to accommodate more cruise and cargo ships. “I’d like to thank Speaker Ryan and Chairman Shuster for their leadership on this issue, and for prioritizing our waterways and ecosystems for a stronger economy.” The Water Resources Development Act of 2016 includes the following items that directly impact South Florida: $976 million for the Central Everglades Planning Project (CEPP), a part of the Central Everglades Restoration Plan (CERP) $308 million for Picayune Strand restoration project water flow upgrades $220 million for Port Everglades dredging ###
09.28.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after the passage of H.R. 5325, the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, which included Zika funding and a Continuing Resolution (CR) to keep the government open. “As the number of Zika cases in Florida continues to rise, long-awaited federal funding will finally be provided. This is a tremendous victory for the South Florida delegation who has tirelessly worked together, from both sides of the aisle and both chambers, to raise the importance of this issue and help resolve it. I’m proud of the work my colleagues and I have done to spread awareness about this critical issue and get the right amount of funding we need to fight Zika. “I thank Speaker Ryan and Chairman Rogers for their leadership in these negotiations, and I look forward to the President signing this into law to quickly release federal funds.” ###
09.25.2016	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after Miami Marlins pitcher Jose Fernandez passed away in a boating accident early Sunday morning. “I’m saddened to hear of the passing of Miami Marlins’ Jose Fernandez. The two-time All-Star had defected from the Castro regime with his mother nine years ago. I had the pleasure of meeting them both at a Three Kings Parade, and remember that moment fondly. My wife Tia and I send our condolences to his family who is suffering from this tragic loss.” ###
09.22.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after the passage of H.R. 5931, the Prohibiting Future Ransom Payments to Iran Act, which would prohibit all cash payments to Iran and demand transparency on any future settlements with Iran to ensure funds are not being used to pay ransom. “This necessary legislation prohibits President Obama – or any future president – from paying ransom for hostages. President Obama's capitulations to the mullahs in Iran, including $1.7 billion in cash, have emboldened the terrorist state. The United States has a longstanding history of never paying for the release of hostages, and of not providing material support to terrorists. Yet President Obama has yielded on both and endangered Americans in doing so. “President Obama has rewarded one of the world's most dangerous terrorist states with cash and legitimacy, and treated it as an equal rather than the pariah that it is. I commend Speaker Ryan and Chairman Royce for their leadership on this issue to ensure that the United States never pays cash to the regime in Iran in exchange for hostages.” In addition, this week the House passed H.R. 5461, the Iranian Leadership Transparency Act. This bill would require the Secretary of the Treasury to create and maintain a list of funds and assets held by senior Iranian political and military regime officials. ###
09.22.2016	WASHINGTON – Representatives Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), Carlos Curbelo (FL-26), and Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) released the following statement after meeting with Miami-Dade County Mayor Carlos A. Gimenez and City of Miami Beach Mayor Philip Levine regarding the continuing battle against the Zika virus in South Florida. “This morning I met with Mayor Gimenez and my colleagues from Florida to discuss urgently-needed funding to address the growing crisis of Zika. Mayor Gimenez was able to speak to the conditions in South Florida, which has become ground zero for this disease. We all agree that funding needs to be passed as quickly as possible. I strongly believe that we need to provide every penny needed to fight this disease, and not one dollar less. This virus poses a threat to every Floridian, and I am confident we will be able to secure funding to protect the lives of unborn babies and their families,” said Rep. Diaz-Balart. "South Florida is ground zero for Zika and we need Congress to step in to help us keep our millions of residents and visitors safe," said Mayor Gimenez. “I appreciate the full support of our state delegation as we continue to urge Congress to provide the funding our community urgently needs." "With the rest of our Miami-Dade Congressional delegation, I will continue demanding that Congress set aside partisan politics and live up to its obligation to families and residents in South Florida by passing a comprehensive funding bill with no policy riders once and for all. Our community deserves better, the time for federal action is now. I have communicated to the leadership in the House my deep frustration with the paralysis of appropriating funds to fight this public health menace. Our South Florida Congressional delegation stands united in a bipartisan manner in our deep disappointment with the dysfunction of this broken system. We have been saying loud and clear: stop the political gamesmanship and pass a full funding Zika bill now. It is way overdue,” said Rep. Ros-Lehtinen. “Today’s meeting further proves that Florida legislators from both parties and elected leaders at all levels are taking this issue seriously. We have seen firsthand the impact of Zika on our neighborhoods. For Floridians it represents both an economic and public health threat. Today, we once again come together to urge Congress to pass a clean Zika bill to fund response efforts long-term, and I'm confident that the concerns of our South Florida community will soon be addressed,” said Rep. Curbelo. "As I've advocated for months, along with my South Florida colleagues, we need a clean Zika funding bill to attack this crisis, and it is long past time for House Republican Leadership to stop playing politics with people's lives. We cannot allow extraneous political issues to interfere with our public health response - especially for a disease that overwhelmingly affects pregnant women and potential mothers-to-be," said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. "It is important that legislators like Mayors Gimenez and Levine today, and Governor Scott last week, are coming to Washington to discuss our efforts to end the spread of Zika and join Florida’s congressional delegation in the fight for a clean bill to swat, drain and repel this terrible virus," said Congresswoman Wilson. "We are excited about the lifting of the travel advisory for Wynwood, which is in my district, but our work isn't done until we have ended the Zika threat. I remain committed to passing a clean Zika bill and securing the funding needed to achieve our goal,” said Rep. Frederica Wilson. ###
09.21.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after the passage of H.R. 3957, the Emergency Citrus Disease Response Act. “Today's legislation will help the hardworking citrus growers in the Sunshine State. For over a decade, our citrus groves have battled citrus greening, which has caused billions in economic damage to one of Florida’s most important industries. This bill will help struggling citrus growers get back on their feet by allowing them to immediately expense the cost of planting new citrus trees. My colleagues and I have succeeded in securing vital research dollars for greening, and this legislation is another important step towards aiding one of Florida’s signature industries. By helping growers replant, we can support the citrus industry and also quickly replace the citrus production that our entire country depends on. I’m proud to be an original cosponsor of this legislation, and I commend Congressman Buchanan on his leadership. I urge the Senate to consider it expeditiously.” ###
09.20.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after reports of Iran’s Hassan Rouhani meeting with Raul and Fidel Castro. Meanwhile, President Obama told world leaders to reject authoritarianism at the United Nations General Assembly this morning. "On the heels of the so-called Non-Aligned Movement summit in Venezuela, Iran's Hassan Rouhani traveled to Havana to meet with the Castro brothers to further their dangerous, anti-American agenda. “The repressive dictatorships in Iran and Cuba have another trait in common: they have gained unwarranted concessions from a U.S. President. In response to President Obama's capitulations, the regime in Iran has responded with threats to annihilate the U.S. and Israel, while acting with increasingly dangerous and provocative aggression to the U.S. military. Meanwhile, the regime in Cuba continues to harbor fugitives from U.S. justice and is on track to perpetrate more political arrests this year than the 8,616 documented arrests in 2015. President Obama's misguided policy toward these brutal regimes has thrown a lifeline to their struggling economies and encouraged an even cozier relationship between two of America's foes. “Regrettably, President Obama's policy of appeasement has made the world a more dangerous place for Americans. While the Castro brothers hosted the titular head of a terrorist state just ninety miles from our shores, President Obama encouraged others in his speech before the U.N. General Assembly to oppose authoritarianism and the politics of ‘the strong man.’ Unfortunately, the President's words do not match his deeds. Instead, President Obama chose to legitimize and embolden oppressive tyrants in Iran and Cuba with weakened sanctions and engagement. By coddling and strengthening the oppressors, he has failed the oppressed who struggle to achieve democracy and human rights in two of the most repressive corners of the globe.” ###
09.15.2016	WASHINGTON - Los representantes Mario Díaz-Balart (FL-25), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), Carlos Curbelo (FL-26), Gus Bilirakis (FL-12) y Frederica Wilson (FL-24) hicieron estas declaraciones después de reunirse con el gobernador de Florida, Rick Scott, en Washington, D.C. para comentar sus continuos esfuerzos para erradicar el virus Zika. Rep. Diaz-Balart: "La reunión de hoy con el gobernador Scott sigue poniendo de relieve su liderazgo en el tema del Zika. Desde el primer momento, el gobernador Scott ha trabajado sin descanso para abogar a favor de la Florida para conseguir fondos federales para responder al Zika. También aseguró que el estado estaba haciendo su parte y utilizando todos sus recursos. Sé que necesitamos urgentemente esta financiación aquí en la Florida. Me he reunido con oficiales electos a nivel local y estatal, así como con los departamentos de control de mosquitos a nivel condado que están en primera línea de lucha contra el virus. Sigo comprometido con aprobar inmediatamente la financiación para prevenir, tratar y responder al Zika. Como he dicho muchas veces y sigo repitiendo, hay que financiar y gastar cada necesario, ni un centavo menos". ###
09.14.2016	WASHINGTON – Representatives Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), Carlos Curbelo (FL-26), Gus Bilirakis (FL-12) and Frederica Wilson (FL-24) released the following statement after meeting with Florida Governor Rick Scott in Washington, D.C. to discuss their continued efforts to eradicate the Zika virus in Florida.Rep. Diaz-Balart: "Today's meeting with Governor Scott continues to highlight his leadership on the issue. Since the first threat of this disease, Governor Scott has worked tirelessly to advocate on behalf of the Sunshine State for federal funding to combat the Zika virus. He also ensured the state was doing its part and utilizing all of its resources. I know how urgently we need this funding here in Florida. I have met with elected leaders at the local and state level, as well as those at the county mosquito control departments who are battling the virus on the front lines. I remain committed to passing immediate Zika funding to prevent, treat, and respond to this disease. As I've said many times, and continue to emphasize, we must fund and spend every dollar needed, and not one penny less."Rep. Ros-Lehtinen: “The South Florida Congressional delegation remains united in demanding that both the House and Senate put politics aside and do their jobs by passing a comprehensive funding bill that will provide our community with the tools it needs to stop and eradicate the Zika virus once and for all. This is the right thing to do for families in South Florida and across our nation. In our meeting with Governor Scott, I stressed the importance of accurate, transparent, and timely communications from FDOH about the Zika threat in our community so that residents and visitors alike can make informed decisions to keep themselves and their loved ones safe. We continue to learn important lessons about Zika and the efficacy of our own emergency response efforts, but our community deserves even more transparency and cooperation between federal, state and local agencies during the difficult road ahead as we work to eliminate the virus and its invasive mosquito host.”Rep. Curbelo: “I thank Governor Scott for meeting with Members of the House and Senate to discuss the need to pass funding for Zika eradication efforts. Zika is both a public health and economic issue for our South Florida community, and Congress has been too slow to act. I implore my colleagues to rise above politics and pass a clean bill that will help American families who are suffering at the hands of this disease.”Rep. Bilirakis: “I reiterated my support to the Governor for proper funding for Florida’s Zika public health crisis. I’ve discussed the issue of Zika with leadership of HHS, FDA, CDC and NIH, and have been involved in emergency response oversight since February. Florida is on the front lines in the fight to combat Zika. Additional funds would help us better detect the virus, study its affects, ensure patients have access to the care they need, and prevent the spread of Zika. We must do all we can to stay ahead of a potential explosive outbreak – to do this, we must attack Zika head on in our state.”Congresswoman Wilson: “Today we had a good and productive meeting with Governor Scott. It is gratifying to know that we are on the same page about the urgent nature of the Zika outbreak in our state and its impact on both public health and Florida’s economy. We also are in complete agreement about the need for Congress to pass a clean bill as quickly as possible. We need a bill without any policy riders or poison pills. That’s all we’re asking for and that’s all Governor Scott is asking for.”Governor Scott meets with members of the South Florida Congressional Delegation in Washington, D.C. From (l): Rep. Ros-Lehtinen, Governor Scott, and Rep. Diaz-Balart. ###
09.14.2016	WASHINGTON - Los representantes Mario Díaz-Balart (FL-25), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), Carlos Curbelo (FL-26), Gus Bilirakis (FL-12) y Frederica Wilson (FL-24) hicieron estas declaraciones después de reunirse con el gobernador de Florida, Rick Scott, en Washington, D.C. para comentar sus continuos esfuerzos para erradicar el virus Zika. Rep. Diaz-Balart: "La reunión de hoy con el gobernador Scott sigue poniendo de relieve su liderazgo en el tema del Zika. Desde el primer momento, el gobernador Scott ha trabajado sin descanso para abogar a favor de la Florida para conseguir fondos federales para responder al Zika. También aseguró que el estado estaba haciendo su parte y utilizando todos sus recursos. Sé que necesitamos urgentemente esta financiación aquí en la Florida. Me he reunido con oficiales electos a nivel local y estatal, así como con los departamentos de control de mosquitos a nivel condado que están en primera línea de lucha contra el virus. Sigo comprometido con aprobar inmediatamente la financiación para prevenir, tratar y responder al Zika. Como he dicho muchas veces y sigo repitiendo, hay que financiar y gastar cada necesario, ni un centavo menos". ###
09.12.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement on the evening before the Non-Aligned Movement Summit begins in Venezuela. "On the eve of the 'Non-Aligned Summit' in Venezuela, there have already been reports of intimidation and fears from protesters of acts of retaliation. Just last week, opposition leader Henrique Capriles was threatened at an airport by a group of armed regime thugs. While Venezuelans starve, inflation remains in triple digits, and many suffer from lack of basic medicines, the Maduro regime is spending extravagantly to prepare for summit attendees. As the Venezuelan people suffer at the hands of the Maduro regime, these delegates will feast on champagne, luxurious food, and will be greeted by a gaudy statue of Hugo Chavez recently erected outside the summit's hotel. Such lavish spending in the midst of this crisis reveals once again that the Maduro regime cares only about maintaining its ever tightening grip on power, and not the well-being of the Venezuelan people." ###
09.12.2016	WASHINGTON –Today, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after he received the 2016 Housing Champion Award from the Florida Housing Coalition at their 29th annual Affordable Housing Conference. “There is no doubt that Florida is a desirable place to live, and affordable housing will always be in demand. I’m grateful to be in a position where I can advocate for and preserve housing programs at the federal level that serve so many Florida families. It is vital that Congress prioritize the most critical housing programs, while protecting hard earned taxpayer dollars. Thanks to the support from organizations like the Florida Housing Coalition, we can work together to provide for our community’s most vulnerable populations. The work does not end here, and as Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, I will continue to fight for affordable housing for those who depend on it most, providing taxpayer dollars to the most efficient and effective programs.” ###
09.12.2016	WASHINGTON - El Congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (FL-25) hizo las siguientes declaraciones con respecto a la cumbre del Movimiento de Países No Alineados que se inicia en Venezuela. "En la víspera de la cumbre de los llamados ‘no alineados’ en Venezuela, ya hay informes de intimidación así como preocupación entre los manifestantes por posibles actos de represalia. La semana pasada, el líder opositor Henrique Capriles fue amenazado en un aeropuerto por un grupo de matones armados del régimen. Mientras que los venezolanos pasan hambre y sufren una hiperinflación galopante y la falta de medicamentos básicos, el régimen de Maduro se permite gastos extravagantes para agasajar a los participantes de la cumbre. Los delegados se darán un festín de champán y comida gourmet, luego de su recibimiento por la ridícula estatua de Hugo Chávez erigida fuera del hotel de la cumbre. Tal derroche de dinero en medio de la crisis reconfirma que el régimen de Maduro sólo busca aferrarse cada vez más al poder, sin importarle el bienestar del pueblo venezolano". ###
09.08.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after receiving the Guardian of Seniors’ Rights award from the 60 Plus Association: “I'm grateful to receive this award from the 60 Plus Association. Preserving Social Security for current and future generations, saving Medicare, and repealing the estate and death taxes are important to our seniors, and these issues are ones that I strongly support. I have fought to protect the rights of seniors across Southern Florida, and will proudly continue to do so.”Congressman Diaz-Balart accepts the Guardian of Seniors’ Rights award from 60 Plus Association representatives.The 60 Plus Association is a 24-year old nonpartisan organization working for death tax repeal, saving Social Security and Medicare, affordable prescription drugs, lowering energy costs and other issues featuring a less government, less taxes approach as well as a strict adherence to the Constitution. The organization calls on support from over 7 million activists. ###
09.06.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after Senate Democrats blocked a vote to advance Zika funding for the third time. “For the third time in as many months, Senate Democrats have once again put politics before the health of the American people. Just last week, I saw firsthand the work our local governments are putting towards fighting Zika on the frontline, and immediate funding from the federal government is desperately needed. Instead of blocking this funding and using political rhetoric to defend their actions, Senate Democrats should have supported this legislation so that we can get urgently needed federal dollars to help prevent, treat, and combat the Zika virus. I believe we have to fund and spend every dollar needed to respond to the Zika virus, and not one penny less. Unlike my Democratic colleagues in the Senate, I remain committed to working with folks from both sides of the aisle to fund Zika response programs.” Read background on Congressman Diaz-Balart’s Zika response efforts here. ###
09.02.2016	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after he was briefed by leaders of the local mosquito control departments of Collier, Hendry, and Miami-Dade Counties. He began the day by meeting with Miami-Dade County Deputy Mayor Alina Hudak, Miami-Dade County Chief of Staff Alex Ferro, Chief of Miami-Dade Solid Waste Management Lee Casey, Deputy Director of Miami-Dade Solid Waste Management Paul Mauriello, and Miami-Dade Mosquito Control Operations Manager Chalmers Vasquez at the county’s mosquito control department. He was also briefed by Hendry County Mosquito Control District Director Shane Parker, and ended the day meeting with Patrick Linn, Director of Collier County Mosquito Control District. “I’m grateful for the frontline efforts of these local community officials. It is critical that Miami-Dade County’s two local transmission areas are contained and eventually eliminated. Collier and Hendry Counties’ geographic distance to these zones make them susceptible, but with the right preventative actions, it can and will be evaded. Whether it is research and development for a vaccine or additional funds for mosquito control efforts, I remain committed to ensuring the federal government provides all of the necessary resources to respond to Zika. We must fund and spend every dollar needed to combat, prevent, and treat this disease and not one penny less. I will continue to collaborate with our local leaders and my congressional colleagues as we work together toward the eradication of the Zika virus.” Read background on Congressman Diaz-Balart’s Zika response efforts here. Congressman Diaz-Balart (R) is briefed by Miami-Dade County Deputy Mayor Alina Hudak (L) and Deputy Director of Miami-Dade Solid Waste Management Paul Mauriello (C). Congressman Diaz-Balart (C) speaks with Collier Mosquito Control District Director Patrick Linn (L) and Collier Mosquito Control District Research Entomologist Dr. Mark Clifton (R) about the county’s efforts to prevent the spread of local transmission to Southwest Florida. ###
09.01.2016	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after a two day tour of various defense contractors and suppliers in Florida. Diaz-Balart is a member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, and also serves as Chair of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee. Beginning next Congress, Diaz-Balart will be the only returning Florida House member serving on a defense authorizing or appropriations committee. The tour was hosted by the Florida Defense Contractors Association (FDCA), a statewide organization dedicated to promoting the common interest of commercial enterprises engaged in manufacturing, supplying, or other services or activities for the national defense. Rep. Diaz-Balart: "Florida’s military bases and defense industry play a critical role in supporting our national security. They are also critical to our state's economy, serving as the fourth largest industry, employing nearly 775,000 Floridians with an economic impact of close to $80 billion. I saw first-hand the types of programs and platforms Florida’s small, midsize, and large contractors support as part of our defense posture. Florida's training, modeling, and simulation corridor creates and sustains a highly educated workforce that secures our state's status as the country's leading industry hub. It provided me with a deeper understanding of Florida’s military role and reinforced my commitment to a strong, robust national defense that serves as the cornerstone of America’s security. As the only Floridian returning to a defense committee next Congress, I’m committed to ensuring we have the necessary resources needed by our men and women in uniform. “I want to commend the Florida Defense Contractors Association for hosting this tour, and for the important role they play in promoting the interest of defense contractors across the state and the partnerships they help forge.”Noel McCormick, Chairman of the Florida Defense Contractors Association: “The Florida Defense Contractors Association was honored to host Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart this week, and to offer him an introduction to the extraordinary accomplishments of Central Florida's defense industry. We particularly admire the Congressman's demonstrated leadership in traveling beyond his district to learn more about the impact of our efforts statewide. We look forward to a continued close working relationship with he and his staff as we seek to serve America’s Heroes, while creating Florida jobs.” During the tour, Diaz-Balart visited and met with representatives from General Dynamics Ordinance & Tactical Systems, DRS Technologies, EEI Manufacturing Services, McCormick Stevenson, Lockheed Martin (Rotary & Mission Systems, Missiles & Fire Control, Aeronautics), Raytheon, Cubic, National Center for Simulation, GC Laser Systems, American Services Technology, Magnus Hitech Industries, R-Squared Solutions, SIMETRI, and Industrial Smoke and Mirrors, Inc. ###
08.26.2016	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) joined House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere Chairman Jeff Duncan (SC-03) and Ranking Member Albio Sires (NJ-08) on a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry and Secretary of the Treasury Jacob Lew urging support for the Venezuelan people. More than 30 Members of Congress called for a recall referendum by the end of 2016, the release of all political prisoners, and the continued issuance of sanctions to operatives of the Maduro regime. "While the Maduro regime continues to censor the media, brutally suppress dissent, imprison the opposition and destroy Venezuela's economy through corruption and gross mismanagement, the Obama administration has done little to help the Venezuelan people in their struggle. I join my colleagues in this important, bipartisan letter which urges the administration to work toward ending the Maduro regime's corruption of democratic institutions and civil society in Venezuela. I commend the Chairman of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere, of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, Representative Jeff Duncan (R-SC), and the Ranking Member, Representative Albio Sires (D-NJ), for spearheading this important effort."See the letter here. ###
08.26.2016	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after participating in a Zika preparedness roundtable with Florida Governor Rick Scott, Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), and other local elected officials. “I was glad to join Governor Scott at this important roundtable to discuss how the federal government and Florida can work together to combat this dangerous virus. The state of Florida has become ground zero for the Zika virus, yet Senate Democrats continue to block funding for their own political gain. I urge them to reconsider the two pieces of House legislation they have twice blocked. Time is of the essence, and we must fund and provide every dollar needed to respond to Zika, and not one penny less. I am grateful to Governor Scott for his leadership on the issue, and I will continue to work with him on prevention, response, and the eventual eradication of this disease.” Read background on Congressman Diaz-Balart’s Zika response efforts here. ###
08.26.2016	MIAMI - El Congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (FL-25) se unió a Jeff Duncan (SC-03), presidente del Subcomité para el Hemisferio Occidental del Comité de Asuntos Exteriores, y Albio Sires (NJ-08), en una carta al secretario de Estado, John Kerry, y al secretario del Tesoro, Jacob Lew, instándoles a apoyar el pueblo venezolano. Más de treinta miembros del Congreso pidieron un referéndum revocatorio en Venezuela antes de final de año, la liberación de todos los presos políticos y nuevas sanciones a agentes del régimen de Maduro. "Si bien el régimen de Maduro continúa censurando los medios de comunicación, reprimiendo y encarcelando a la oposición, y destruyendo la economía de Venezuela a base de corrupción y mala gestión, la administración de Obama apenas ha hecho nada para ayudar al pueblo venezolano en su lucha. Me uno a mis colegas en esta importante carta bipartidista para instar a la administración a que intente acabar con la corrupción de las instituciones democráticas y la sociedad civil en Venezuela por parte del régimen de Maduro. Felicito al Presidente del Subcomité para el Hemisferio Occidental del Comité de Asuntos Exteriores, el Representante Jeff Duncan (R- SC), y el miembro de alto rango, Representante Albio Sires (D-NJ), por encabezar este importante esfuerzo". Puedes leer la carta aqui. ###
08.11.2016	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after the Department of Health and Human Services announced it will reallocate $81 million to fight the Zika virus. "House Republicans, led by Speaker Ryan and Chairman Rogers, have been calling on the White House for several months to reallocate existing funds to continue addressing the Zika response. The White House has stubbornly refused. The House voted on and passed two pieces of legislation that would provide immediate and direct funding to combat, treat, and respond with clear guidelines as to how the money would be allocated. Yet, with the support of the White House, Senate Democrats blocked legislation not once, but twice. I'm glad the Administration finally came around and listened to Speaker Ryan and Chairman Rogers, but it didn't have to come down to this. The Administration could have chosen to take this action months ago, but refused. I urge Senate Democrats to reconsider the two pieces of legislation they have before them, so that we can get urgently needed resources to affected regions." ###
08.09.2016	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement after participating in the Safe Cars Save Lives Tour alongside Dr. Mark Rosekind, Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. This free event, held at Florida International University, invited the local community to learn about vehicle safety, including car seat and tire checks, recall look-ups, and spreading awareness about the dangers of heat stroke when leaving children in hot cars. This event was a collaboration of the NHTSA, Safe Kids Miami-Dade Coalition, Florida Department of Transportation-State Safety Office, Florida Highway Patrol, and the Rubber Manufacturers Association. “Millions of car owners across the United States are facing a massive recall on Takata air bags, and this event invited the local community to learn more about the recall and what steps to take to replace the air bags. As a native Floridian, I am all too familiar with the soaring temperatures and high humidity during the summer months, and I am pleased that NHTSA made South Florida their first stop on the safety tour. I am happy to work with NHTSA Administrator Rosekind to help spread awareness about the dangers posed when leaving children in hot cars. Being informed about these dangers, as well as any recent vehicle recalls and the importance of proper car seat installation, are critical to keeping our families safe.” NHTSA is partially funded through the Transportation Appropriations Subcommittee, chaired by Diaz-Balart. For the current fiscal year, Congress funded NHTSA Operations and Research at $295.7 million, an increase of $27.2 million over current levels, and funded Safety Programs at $573.3 million, an increase of $11.8 over current levels. ###
08.06.2016	MIAMI - El Congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (FL-25) hizo la siguiente declaración después de que él y el congresista Curt Clawson (FL-19) escribieran una carta al líder de la mayoría del Senado, Mitch McConnell (R-KY), y el líder de la minoría del Senado, Harry Reid (D-NV), instándoles a tomar medidas inmediatas con respecto a dos propuestas de ley que proporcionarían fondos adicionales para ayudar a combatir, prevenir y tratar el virus Zika. Los dos proyectos fueron aprobados en la Cámara pero bloqueados en dos ocasiones por los demócratas del Senado. "Los líderes del Senado deben actuar ya con respecto a dos proyectos de ley aprobados por la Cámara para proporcionar fondos adicionales urgentes contra el Zika. Esta semana en la Florida se han confirmado más de una docena de casos de transmisión local, los primeros en los Estados Unidos continentales. Es irresponsable que los demócratas del Senado ignoren la amenaza del Zika, que ya ha llegado a nuestras costas. En dos ocasiones han bloqueado legislación aprobada por la Cámara y ya es tarde para que se dejen de politiqueo. Los demócratas del Senado tienen el deber de votar a favor de esta financiación para que los fondos lleguen urgentemente a las zonas afectadas". El texto de la carta se puede leer a continuación: Estimados líderes McConnell y Reid, La amenaza del Zika a nuestro modo de vida ya no puede acoplarse al calendario del Senado de los Estados Unidos. Con el anuncio reciente del Estado de Florida de que quince personas han contraído el virus del Zika a través de la transmisión local, la Florida se ha convertido en el primer estado del país con casos de Zika no relacionados con viajes al exterior. El lunes 1 de agosto, los Centros para el Control y la Prevención de Enfermedades (CDC) emitieron una advertencia de viaje para Wynwood, un barrio ubicado en Miami, FL, donde se han identificado la mayoría de los casos. El virus del Zika es una enfermedad peligrosa relacionada con los defectos de nacimiento, ciertos trastornos neurológicos, y el síndrome de Guillain-Barré. La enfermedad se transmite más comúnmente a través de la picadura de la especie de mosquito Aedes, pero también se puede transmitir por vía sexual. Antes del anuncio de la Florida, el CDC había reportado 4.729 casos adquiridos localmente en territorios de Estados Unidos, la mayoría en Puerto Rico. Hasta ahora la Cámara y el Senado han sido incapaces de ponerse de acuerdo sobre las medidas para prevenir, contener y tratar el Zika, a pesar de la clara amenaza que supone para los Estados Unidos. Más inacción es inaceptable. Imploramos al Senado que explore cualquier opción para que estos fondos urgentes estén disponibles de inmediato. La Cámara ha pasado varias medidas relacionadas con Zika al Senado para su aprobación final. En mayo, la Cámara aprobó H. R. 5243, la Ley de Asignaciones para la Respuesta al Zika. La forma más rápida en que el Senado pueda presentar al Presidente una ley que responde a la amenaza del Zika es aprobando este proyecto de ley. De inmediato y hasta el final de este año fiscal, se dedicarían más de $600 millones a combatir la propagación del virus, dándole tiempo al Congreso de aprobar legislación integral a largo plazo durante las negociaciones para el año fiscal (FY) 2017. Además, el Senado podría aprobar el informe de conferencia para el HR 2577, que incluye lenguaje que asignaría $ 1,1 millones durante FY2017 para luchar contra la propagación de Zika. Independientemente de cuál de las propuestas es finalmente aprobada, es inaceptable esperar hasta después del receso de agosto para actuar. Instamos una vez más al Senado a que explore cualquier opción que haga fluir urgentemente los recursos necesarios a la primera línea para proteger al país de esta amenaza biológica.
08.06.2016	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement, after he and Congressman Curt Clawson (FL-19) wrote a letter to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) and Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV), urging Senate leadership to take immediate action on two pieces of legislation that would provide additional funding to help combat, prevent, and treat the Zika virus. These two bills were passed in the House, and legislation to provide funding was twice blocked by Senate Democrats. "I urge Senate leadership to take action on the two bills the House has passed that would provide additional and immediate funding to combat Zika. This week, Florida has confirmed over a dozen locally transmitted cases, the first of their kind in the continental United States. It is irresponsible of Senate Democrats to ignore the threat of Zika that has already reached our shores. After blocking House approved legislation twice, it is time to end political grandstanding. Senate Democrats have a duty to vote for immediate Zika funding, and to get these urgently needed funds to the affected regions." The text of the letter can be found below: August 5, 2016 The Honorable Mitch McConnell The Honorable Harry Reid Senate Majority Leader Senate Minority Leader S-230, The Capitol S-221, The Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515 Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Leaders McConnell and Reid, The threat of Zika to our national way of life can no longer accommodate the calendar of the United States Senate. With the State of Florida’s recent announcement that 15 individuals have contracted the dangerous Zika virus through local transmission, Florida now has become the first state in the nation to report non-travel related cases of the virus. On Monday, August 1, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) announced a travel warning for Wynwood, a neighborhood located in Miami, FL where most of these cases have been identified. Zika virus is a dangerous disease linked to birth defects, certain neurological disorders, and Guillain-Barré syndrome. The disease is most commonly transmitted through a bite from the Aedes species of mosquito, but can also be spread through sexual transmission. Prior to Florida’s announcement, the CDC had reported 4,729 locally acquired cases in U.S. territories, with the majority being recorded in Puerto Rico. Despite the acknowledged threat to the United States, the House and Senate have thus far been unable to agree on meaningful prevention, containment, and treatment measures. Further disagreement and inaction is unacceptable, and we implore the Senate to explore all options to make urgently-needed funding available immediately. The House has referred multiple Zika-related measures to the Senate for final passage. In May, the House passed H.R. 5243, the Zika Response Appropriations Act. Passage of this bill is the quickest way for the Senate to get a clean bill to the President that responds to the threat posed by Zika. It would appropriate over $600 million in funding to combat the spread of the virus through the remainder of this fiscal year, allowing Congress additional time to pass long-term, comprehensive legislation during the appropriations negotiations for Fiscal Year (FY) 2017. Additionally, the Senate could agree to the conference report to H.R. 2577, which includes language that would direct $1.1 billion through FY2017 to fight the spread of Zika. Regardless of which bill receives final passage, it is unacceptable to wait until after the August recess to act. We again urge the Senate to aggressively pursue any options that would start the flow of needed resources to the frontline to secure the nation from this biological threat. Sincerely, Curt Clawson Mario Diaz-Balart Member of Congress Member of Congress ###
08.02.2016	MIAMI - El Congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (FL-25) publicó la siguiente declaración con respecto al líder pro democracia Guillermo "Coco" Fariñas, que cumple hoy trece días en huelga de hambre. "La huelga de hambre de Guillermo Fariñas, galardonado con el Premio Sajarov de la Unión Europea para la libertad de pensamiento, junto con las huelgas de otros activistas incluyendo varios de la Unión Patriótica de Cuba UNPACU, muestra la disposición del movimiento pro democracia de Cuba de recurrir a medidas extremas para protestar la represión creciente del régimen de Castro. Es lamentable que se sientan obligados a recurrir a estas medidas para que el mundo vea la maldad de la tiranía a que se enfrentan cada día. "Su mensaje no podría ser más claro. El brutal régimen de Castro sigue siendo el peor violador de derechos humanos del hemisferio y reprime la disidencia con palizas, detenciones e intimidación. Insto a los que valoren los derechos humanos más fundamentales a que condenen la barbarie de la dictadura y expresen su solidaridad con el pueblo cubano. "Es vergonzoso que la fallida política de apaciguamiento del presidente Obama no haya hecho nada para ayudar a los defensores de la democracia, sino que ha envalentonado a sus opresores. El presidente Obama afirmó que, como parte del ‘acuerdo’ con Castro en diciembre de 2014, las organizaciones internacionales como el Comité Internacional de la Cruz Roja tendrían acceso a la isla. Esto parece haber sido una mentira. Con activistas valientes arriesgando sus vidas por la libertad, lo mínimo que podría hacer el presidente Obama es exigirle al régimen que cumpla sus compromisos.” ###
08.01.2016	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement regarding pro-democracy leader Guillermo “Coco” Fariñas, who is entering the 12th day of hunger strike. "The hunger strike by Guillermo Fariñas, recipient of the EU's Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought, among other activists demonstrates the determination of Cuba's pro-democracy movement to resort to extreme measures in protesting the Castro regime's escalating repression. Sadly, these activists are resorting to such extreme measures so the world will see the malevolence of the tyranny that they face each day. “Their message is received. The brutal Castro regime continues to hold our hemisphere's worst record on human rights and stifles dissent with beatings, arrests, and intimidation. I urge those who value basic rights to condemn the savagery of the Castro dictatorship and express solidarity with the Cuban people. “Shamefully, President Obama's failed policy of appeasement has done nothing to help democracy activists, but has only emboldened their oppressors. President Obama claimed that part of the Obama-Castro December 2014 ‘deal’ was that international organizations such as the International Committee of the Red Cross would have access to the island. Yet, this apparently was just another empty promise. As courageous activists risk their lives for freedom, holding the Castro regime to its commitment is the bare minimum that President Obama could do.” ###
08.01.2016	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after the arrest of Cuban independent labor activist Iván Hernández Carrillo. According to reports from inside the island, Hernández Carrillo was violently arrested when he arrived at the airport in Havana, and remains detained in Cuba. “It is outrageous that independent labor activist Iván Hernández Carrillo was arrested upon arriving back in Cuba after his trip to the United States and Europe. While abroad, Ivan brought attention to the Castro regime’s egregious abuses of basic human rights and labor standards in Cuba, and protested the labor violations that will occur as a result of the recently announced Castro-Starwood deal. “The Castro dictatorship is punishing Ivan for effectively and eloquently highlighting the regime’s repression to the outside world. While in the U.S. and Europe, Ivan informed labor activists in free countries about his personal experiences with tyranny in Cuba, and emphasized the lack of free association and other basic labor rights. But within minutes of returning to his homeland, he was violently and brutally reminded of the consequences of expression in the Castro’s totalitarian regime. For years, Ivan has demonstrated remarkable courage in continuing the struggle for the Cuban people’s freedom despite numerous arrests, threats, beatings, and imprisonment. His latest trip to highlight labor abuses, and then return to Cuba to continue the struggle, was an exceptional act of bravery. “As the violent arrest and detention of Ivan demonstrates, along with the ongoing hunger strikes by other activists, repression in Cuba continues to escalate despite numerous concessions from the Obama administration. By failing to focus on human rights and barreling ahead with his failed policy of appeasement, President Obama has done nothing to help Cuba’s pro-democracy and human rights activists, and has emboldened their oppressors. President Obama should change course and cease his misguided concessions to the Castro regime until basic human rights are respected.” ###
07.29.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Florida Department of Health confirmed the first mosquito-transmitted Zika cases in the United States. All four cases are in Florida. “It was only a matter of time before mosquito-transmitted Zika cases would appear in Florida. I’ve said time and time again that Florida had the potential to become ground zero for local transmission. Unfortunately, that has now become the case, and we must stop it before it gets worse. The House has passed legislation that would provide the necessary and immediate funds to combat the disease, yet Senate Democrats blocked legislation not once, but twice. “I urge President Obama to use the funds that have already been repurposed to combat Zika. Instead of waiting idly for the right political opportunity, he must continue using the $590 million that is available, only a fraction of which has been spent. We must fund and spend every penny needed to prevent, combat, and treat this disease, and I will work with my colleagues to ensure this happens." ###
07.22.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after Miami-Dade County was awarded a $2.35 million grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation under the Low-Emission or No-Emission Vehicle Program for the purchase of electric buses. Diaz-Balart serves as the Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, and is the most recent South Floridian to hold that powerful post since former Congressman Bill Lehman, who served until 1993. "I am pleased to announce that Miami-Dade County was awarded $2.35 million for the purchase of electric busses and to modernize the County's bus fleet. As Chairman of the Transportation Appropriations Subcommittee, I worked to ensure that funding for this program was included in the omnibus appropriations bill for fiscal year 2016. This award will help modernize the County's bus fleet, while using more efficient energy sources. As a senior member of the influential Appropriations Committee, I'm committed to working with Miami-Dade leadership so that together, we can better position our community to compete for vital and much needed transportation dollars. South Floridians are all too familiar with the traffic congestion problems our community faces, and I am glad to have supported a grant program that will help alleviate some of the congestion. "I commend Mayor Gimenez, Transportation Chairman Bovo, and Transit Director Bravo for working towards innovative transportations solutions, and I look forward to continuing working with them.” ###
07.22.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement on the 4th anniversary of the deaths of Oswaldo Payá and Harold Cepero, two Cuban pro-democracy activists who are believed to have been killed by the Cuban regime. “Four years ago today, Harold Cepero and Oswaldo Payá died for their efforts to bring freedom and democracy to Cuba. Witnesses to the event described the intentional ramming of their vehicle by Castro regime thugs, and suspicious circumstances at the hospital following the crash. Rosa Maria Payá, and the other family members, are entitled to an international investigation into the cause of their deaths. Shamefully, despite these and other heinous acts by the Castro regime, the Obama administration continues to provide endless concessions to the brutal Castro brothers. On this solemn anniversary, we remember the courage of activists such as Oswaldo Payá and Harold Cepero, and remain in solidarity with those who continue their noble cause.” ###
07.14.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after the passage of H.R. 5538, the Interior and Environment Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2017. “I’m glad to see this appropriations bill makes an impact here in Southern Florida. The bill included my request of $62.7 million for Everglades National Park ecosystem projects under the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Program (CERP) and park management. Further, this bill fully funds another one of my priorities - the Payments in Lieu of Taxes program (PILT), which are federal payments to local governments that help offset losses in property taxes due to non-taxable federal lands within their boundaries. Collier County has a significant amount of federal land and this bill addresses that lost revenue. In fiscal year 2016 alone, Collier County will have received a total of $1.3 million. The Interior and Environment Appropriations bill protects our environment, while removing unnecessary red tape and bureaucratic regulations that are costly and ineffective. By reducing EPA’s budget, funds can be refocused on programs of critical need, such as programs that give states the flexibility they need to implement new environmental standards. “I want to thank Chairmen Rogers and Calvert for their leadership on getting this bill approved. This bill will mark the fifth appropriations bill passed by the House, and I am proud to join Speaker Ryan and Chairman Rogers in their work to return the House to regular order to pass our spending bills.” ###
07.13.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement honoring the victims of the “13 de Marzo” attack on its 22nd anniversary. “Today, we mark twenty-two years since the horrific massacre that occurred when Castro regime thugs viciously and deliberately attacked a tugboat with men, women, and children on board who simply were attempting to escape tyranny. As a result of their brutality, many innocent passengers, as young as five months old, perished at sea. “Regrettably, record numbers of Cubans are risking everything and undertaking the same treacherous journey across the Florida straits to escape their island prison. When the Cuban people finally rid themselves of the murderous Castro dictatorship, the criminals who carried out that heinous atrocity against dozens of innocents will be held accountable for their crimes. On this solemn anniversary, I hold the victims and their families in my prayers, and I will continue my efforts to help the Cuban people in their fight for freedom.” ###
07.12.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations bill was approved in full committee. The bill included language that would require State Department to issue reports on Palestinian incitement, and what actions the Department is taking to end to it. “The Palestinian Authority has created a strong culture of incitement against Israelis. There has been continued violence and aggression by Palestinian terrorists, with the most recent and gruesome attack carried out against a 13 year old girl in her own home. Palestinian Authority leadership must recognize that in order for these acts of aggression to end, they must take responsibility themselves and stop using and promoting this inflammatory language. In order to keep the Palestinian Authority accountable, the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations bill has included language that requires more thorough reporting from the State Department on Palestinian incitement. By requiring the State Department to issue a report on the extent of the incitement and the steps that are being taken to combat it, I hope that we can work together as a global community to end these words and actions of hate.” ###
07.06.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart released the following statement after the passage of S. 2845, the Extension of the Venezuela Defense of Human Rights and Civil Society Act. "I am pleased Congress has once again reaffirmed its commitment to human rights and democracy around the world by passing an extension to the Venezuela Defense of Human Rights and Civil Society Act. As the Maduro regime continues to subvert democratic institutions, rule of law, and civil society, Congress will continue to stand with the people of Venezuela in pressing for fundamental rights and liberties by ensuring that those who commit human rights abuses face consequences. "After the recent celebration of Venezuela's Independence Day, the Venezuelan people mark 205 years free from Spanish rule. Today, the American people stand with them as they press to regain their hard-won freedoms and rid themselves of the Maduro plague." ###
07.06.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after the passage of H.R. 2646, the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act. Diaz-Balart was an original co-sponsor of the legislation. "Individuals suffering from mental health and their families have been working inside an ineffective system that does not recognize the unique needs of mental health disorders for far too long. Today's passage of the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act allows for better quality of care for these patients. The current healthcare system provides far too many obstacles that delay, and even prevent, these individuals from receiving the care they need quickly and effectively. By updating antiquated healthcare and mental health policies to better fit the needs of the patients and their families, we can provide better care for those who are silently pleading for help. This bill also includes mental health treatment under the types of care that can be paid for by Medicaid, making treatment more accessible to patients in underserved communities. It's time to reform our mental health system to provide care for these folks who so desperately need and deserve it. "I am proud to work with Chairman Upton and Congressman Murphy on this issue, and I am grateful for their leadership on an area that affects millions of Americans." ###
06.28.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after Senate Democrats voted to block the final conference report for H.R. 2577, the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Zika Response Appropriations Act. “I’m extremely disappointed the Senate voted against Zika funding that was passed by the House last week. The report would have made $1.1 billion immediately available to continue fighting the disease, and these funds are especially needed as we head into the summer months. As we learned today, the first baby in Florida with Zika-related microcephaly was born, and the further spread of the virus, especially among pregnant women, is a danger to millions of Americans. By voting against this funding, Senate Democrats are prioritizing playing politics over combating a growing public health problem. It is imperative that Senate Democrats quit trying to seek political points and move quickly to provide and spend every dollar needed for Zika prevention, treatment, and response programs, and not one penny less. Zika is a serious health concern that has real potential to become a public health crisis in our state. This is not the time for Senate Democrats to be playing politics, and I urge the Senate to reconsider the bill for final passage.” ###
06.23.2016	WASHINGTON – Representatives Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), Carlos Curbelo (FL-26), Fred Upton (MI-6), Mike Coffman (CO-6), Dan Newhouse (WA-4), David Valadao (CA-21), Jeff Denham (CA-10), and Bob Dold (IL-10) released the following statement after the United States Supreme Court ruled 4-4 in the United States vs. Texas case. “The Supreme Court has spoken, but today's decision does not resolve the issue. The American people expect Congress to work together to secure our borders, adhere to the rule of law, offer a humane solution to those living in the shadows, modernize our visa system, and bolster the economy. We are committed to fixing our broken immigration system once and for all.” ###
06.09.2016	WASHINGTON - El Congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (FL-25) hizo las siguientes declaraciones a raíz de informes de que el diputado venezolano Julio Borges, líder de la oposición en el partido Primero Justicia, fue agredido por chavistas armados con tubos y piedras. "Cada día que pasa, el régimen de Maduro alcanza nuevos extremos en la opresión de la oposición democrática en Venezuela. Es imperdonable que los verdugos de Maduro hayan golpeado y ensangrentado a Julio Borges mientras cumplía con sus funciones oficiales. A medida de que la economía de Venezuela se desmorona debido a la corrupción e incompetencia de Maduro, la agresión y violencia contra la oposición va en aumento. La comunidad internacional debe condenar rotundamente las tácticas de violencia e intimidación que caracterizan al régimen de Maduro y comprometerse a trabajar con el pueblo venezolano para restaurar la democracia. " ###
06.09.2016	WASHINGTON - Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after reports that Venezuelan Congressman Julio Borges, an opposition leader in the Primero Justicia party, was assaulted by Chavistas wielding pipes and stones. "With each passing day, the Maduro regime is sinking to new lows in oppressing the opposition and subverting the suppressed remnants of democracy in Venezuela. Shamefully, Maduro's thugs beat and bloodied Julio Borges as he was attempting to carry out his official duties. As Venezuela's economy crumbles due to Maduro's corruption and mismanagement, these acts of aggression against the opposition are escalating. The international community must roundly condemn the violence and intimidation tactics that have come to characterize the Maduro regime and commit to working with the Venezuelan people to restore democracy.” ###
06.09.2016	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after Speaker Paul Ryan and House Republicans unveiled their foreign policy agenda. This agenda furthers America’s longstanding commitments to democracy and human rights in Cuba, Iran, Venezuela, and other oppressed regions of the world. "I wholeheartedly commend the Speaker and my House Republican colleagues for their dedication to promoting democracy, opposing tyranny, and strengthening relationships with our allies. House Republicans have firmly rejected President Obama's policy of appeasing dictators at the expense of the people they oppress, and we have presented a better way forward in protecting America's interests across the globe. “I especially appreciate that Speaker Ryan vows to work toward ensuring that President Obama's policy of appeasement toward the Castro regime will not enrich the Cuban military -- the very oppressive institution responsible for brutal repression of the Cuban people and which perpetrates dangerous anti-American activities such as weapons smuggling, narco-trafficking, espionage, harboring fugitives, and the murder of innocent Americans. House Republicans also oppose the dangerous deal with Iran, which makes us and our allies less safe, while proposing ways to strengthen ties with those in the Middle East who share America's desire for peace. “Through his plan, the House Republicans announce a profound commitment to those in Cuba, Iran, Venezuela, and elsewhere who are struggling to achieve fundamental liberties and human rights within the world's most oppressive environments. It also provides a way to enhance our national security by standing firm with our allies while refusing to appease or enrich our foes. With this U.S. foreign policy agenda, House Republicans demonstrate the strong, effective leadership that derives not from capitulations and weakness, but from purpose and principle. I stand ready to work with Speaker Ryan and the rest of our leadership team in realizing these foreign policy goals and protecting America's national security interests in the U.S. Congress.” ###
06.07.2016	WASHINGTON - Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart, Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Subcommittee of the House Committee on Appropriations (FL-25), released the following statement after the White House announced the Southwest Florida Regional Planning Council was awarded the rural Promise Zone designation. As Chairman, Diaz-Balart advocated for SWFRPC’s bid to be designated as a Promise Zone, and wrote a letter to the Departments of Housing and Urban Development and Agriculture in support of the Southwest Florida Regional Planning Council's application. Diaz-Balart also spoke with HUD Secretary Castro to discuss the group’s bid. "I am pleased the Southwest Florida Regional Planning Council was awarded this designation. Southwest Florida's low cost of living and young population provide opportunities for a growing economy, and the Promise Zone designation helps to bolster it. These communities have all the right factors - a strong agricultural industry, the geographic location for tourism, and ideal economic conditions that can attract and grow businesses. With the appropriate guidance from a federal liaison, these factors can be utilized to add to the region's continued growth, while making a positive impact on the economic situation of our neighbors in need. I am proud to have supported this initiative and I look forward to partnering with local leaders to ensure the region competes for federal funding opportunities that can improve and revitalize our community and those who need it most." The Promise Zone is a joint effort of the Departments of Housing and Urban Development and Agriculture. In this effort, grantees are assigned a federal liaison to help navigate federal programs, given preferential consideration for certain federal grant programs, and receive technical assistance from numerous federal agencies. In addition, they will also receive five AmeriCorps volunteers, who assist with programming in critical need communities. After speaking with HUD Secretary Castro, Chairman Diaz-Balart wrote a letter to HUD and the USDA in February 2016 in support of the Southwest Florida Regional Planning Council's bid to be designated as a Promise Zone. ###
06.01.2016	Diaz-Balart Praises OAS Decision to Invoke Inter-American Democratic Charter WASHINGTON - Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after Secretary General Luis Almagro of the Organization of American States called for an emergency meeting of regional governments to assess the deterioration of democracy in Venezuela: “Finally, under the leadership of Secretary General Luis Almagro, the OAS is standing up to the escalating repression and ongoing human rights abuses in Venezuela. OAS member states have a responsibility to work together to uphold the democratic principles that bind our nations together. The Maduro regime has systematically undermined democratic institutions, violated human rights, and cultivated corruption at all levels of government. The deteriorating conditions in Venezuela demand concerted and unequivocal consequences from Western Hemisphere nations that support the fundamental principles of democracy, human rights, and the rule of law. At the Permanent Council meeting called by the Secretary General, I urge the Obama administration to abandon its predilection for appeasing dictators and stand with the people of Venezuela. At a minimum, all political prisoners in Venezuela must be liberated, the independence of the judiciary must be restored, the media must be uncensored, and the will of the people must be respected. The Venezuelan people deserve no less.”
05.25.2016	WASHINGTON - Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after reports that Cuban pro-democracy activist Berta Soler was arrested by the Castro regime on erroneous charges and is awaiting trial. “According to reports, Berta Soler, the iconic leader of the Ladies in White, has been arrested and charged with bogus crimes, and stripped of her ability to travel. “As Berta’s arrest demonstrates, President Obama’s policy of appeasement has emboldened the Castro regime to further oppress the Cuban people. For the first four months of 2016, there have been 5,351 political arrests in Cuba with 498 of those occurring during President Obama’s 2-day trip in March. The dictators know that President Obama is too wedded to his policy of weakness to let the realities of escalating repression, political arrests, and mounting human suffering affect his course. Shamefully, his policy is failing Cuba’s human rights and pro-democracy activists, and it is propelling record numbers of Cubans to attempt risky escapes. Meanwhile, the regime has allowed Russian ships to spy from its waters, engaged in weapons smuggling, harbored terrorists and fugitives from U.S. justice, and assisted the Maduro regime suppress dissent in Venezuela. “Despite the regime’s egregious human rights record, President Obama will barrel ahead in encouraging businesses to directly enrich the very dictatorship that suppresses dissent, brutally beats activists, and engages in vicious acts of repudiation. While he unreservedly embraces a brutal regime, he is shockingly disengaged from the terrible consequences of his policy for the Cuban people. “Berta Soler is a recipient of the EU’s Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought. She bravely accepted the mantle of leadership of the Ladies in White after its previous leader, Laura Pollan, died at the hands of Castros’ thugs. She is often among the other Ladies in White who are beaten, threatened or insulted on their way to mass virtually every Sunday. “I urge the President to end his damaging concessions to the Castro brothers, as Berta herself also has advocated, and require that the Castro regime respect basic human rights and liberties. Rather than sidling up to the ailing octogenarians that have oppressed the Cuban people for decades, President Obama should embrace the true leaders such as Berta Soler.” ###
05.24.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after the passage of H.R. 897, the Zika Vector Control Act. “In order to properly combat Zika, we must get to the root of the problem and begin the extermination of the carrier mosquitos. Yet proper extermination is hindered by numerous and complicated regulations set in place by the Environmental Protection Agency. By removing these burdensome regulations imposed by the EPA, this bill is a step forward in the fight against the Zika virus. It is also crucial that the Senate begin consideration of this bill, as well as H.R. 5243, the Zika Response Appropriations Act of 2016, which was passed in the House last week. “The House of Representatives, led by Speaker Ryan, have come up with commonsense solutions to fight Zika, yet constant veto threats coming from the White House show how President Obama is more interested in putting politics ahead of the safety and health of the American people.” ###
05.20.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after Congressman Curt Clawson (FL-19) announced he would not seek re-election this fall. “Curt is a champion for the Caloosahatchee River and for the Everglades. I am grateful to have had the opportunity to work closely with him on a number of issues important to Southwest Florida. He has become a personal, trusted friend. I will miss his insight and sense of humor in the halls of the Capitol. I wish him and his family the best.” ###
05.18.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after the passage of H.R. 5243, the Zika Response Appropriations Act of 2016. “I believe we need to provide and spend every dollar needed for Zika prevention, treatment, and response programs, and not one penny less. It is significant to note that the funds proposed in today’s bill - $622.1 million – are not the only funds immediately available for Zika response. Last month, after repeated requests from Congress, the Administration identified $590 million in existing unused Ebola funds and other funding to address immediate Zika needs. This will total almost $1.3 billion to combat Zika this fiscal year alone. If more funds are needed, Congress will do what is necessary to make sure additional funds are available. It is crucial the Obama administration and the Centers for Disease Control provide Congress with detailed information as to how they plan to spend these proposed funds. Congress has a responsibility to American taxpayers that their hard-earned dollars are spent efficiently and effectively, much unlike the fiasco with the ‘shovel-ready’ programs. “I am grateful to Chairman Rogers for his leadership on this issue, and I am committed to continue working with him and my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee to address Zika funding.” ###
05.17.2016	WASHINGTON - Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Subcommittee of the House Committee on Appropriations, released the following statement after introducing the draft fiscal year 2017 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill. The legislation will be considered in subcommittee tomorrow. "This bill provides for our nation's transportation and housing needs, while making tough choices to protect hard-earned taxpayer dollars. It recognizes the need to house the most vulnerable and get critical infrastructure back on track. Most importantly, it will ensure the safety of our infrastructure and improve the quality of our public housing programs. "As I continue seeking answers on why the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) found the Homeless Trust's programs ineffective and its grant application to be less competitive, I am taking action to prioritize funding for essential homeless assistance grants vital to South Florida's most needy. These programs, which provide support services, as well as transitional and permanent housing, are funded at $2.487 billion, which represents an increase of $237 million over current levels. Very few programs in the bill are receiving an increase of this magnitude, and I am grateful to be able to aid our community in a time of great need. Specifically, I am increasing funding to programs that will directly benefit South Florida: $40 million in supplemental Emergency Solutions Grant funding to be distributed to communities that have recently lost significant funding within their continuum of care program, and at least $5 million for technical assistance to high-needs communities. It is becoming clear the Homeless Trust and Miami-Dade County are in need of HUD assistance to improve their homeless programs. Introducing the bill this morning is the beginning of a lengthy legislative process, but I am committed to ensuring that resources are available so that South Florida can better compete and improve the quality and scale of their homeless services." Background: Diaz-Balart's bill recommends $2.487 billion for Homeless Assistance Grants. Within that allotment, no less than $2.014 billion is provided to support continuum of care program renewals, at least $270 million is for regular Emergency Solutions Grants (ESG), and an additional $40 million in formula funds for rapid re-housing and other critical activities like emergency shelter and street outreach in communities that have recently lost significant capacity to serve persons experiencing homelessness. Further, the bill provides no less than $15 million for technical assistance to continuum of care communities, including no less than $5 million for high need communities. Miami-Dade County would be an eligible recipient of both the supplement ESG funding and technical assistance. ###
05.16.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) released the following statement after House Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers (KY-05) introduced a bill proposing $622.1 million in FY16 funds to combat the Zika virus in the United States. “The funds proposed to combat Zika are critical. This horrible disease has the capability to infect many, and we must focus on stopping it before it continues to spread. This is especially important in Florida, where the spring and summer seasons are especially rainy, creating a breeding ground for mosquitos. It is imperative the Centers for Disease Control and the Administration provide Congress with detailed guidance on how they plan to spend these proposed funds. Congress must know these funds will be spent efficiently and effectively to battle this disease. “I want to thank Chairman Rogers for his leadership on the issue and ensuring that the United States is prepared to combat Zika.” The legislation includes: $230 million for the National Institutes of Health that will support clinical development for a vaccine, $170 million for the Centers for Disease Control to focus on mosquito control efforts and readiness and response programs for states and territories with heavy mosquito populations, such as Florida Within the funding for the CDC, $50 million is included for maternal and child health programs for those affected by the Zika virus $119.1 million for the State Department and the U.S. Agency for International Development, Within the funding for USAID, $100 million is included for international mosquito control efforts, known as “vector control” ###
05.13.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) encourages families and individuals to prepare for Hurricane Season. Diaz-Balart promotes National Hurricane Preparedness Week, which begins this Sunday, May 15th and runs through Saturday, May 21st. The 2016 Hurricane Season begins on Wednesday, June 1st.“Though Florida has been fortunate in the last several years, we must not let our guard down. If we prepare our families, homes, and communities now, we can protect ourselves from these natural disasters,” said Congressman Diaz-Balart. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) kicked off their annual National Hurricane Preparedness Week to create awareness leading up to the start of the season. More information and ideas can be found at www.ready.gov/hurricanes. Information on the different types of severe weather such as tornadoes, severe thunderstorms, and flooding is available at www.weather.gov or the Spanish-language web site www.listo.gov. Congressman Diaz-Balart’s website has a list of emergency preparedness resources, including checklists in English and Spanish. ###
05.13.2016	“I'm pleased to see that members from both sides of the aisle have come together to combat an issue affecting communities around the country. Opioid addiction is a serious problem, and the House has approved a package with 18 bills that help to confront the crisis. From bringing together healthcare stakeholders and experts to create a task force that will identify best practices, to awarding grants to state, local, or tribal governments to collaborate ideas on ways to help alleviate the crisis, these bills provide the resources and the guidance our cities, towns, and states need to begin the battle against opioid addiction.” To see the entire set of bills passed to fight opioid abuse in the United, please click here. ###
05.11.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressmen Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Gus Bilirakis (FL-12), and Carlos Curbelo (FL-26) met with Florida Governor Rick Scott to discuss the Zika virus.Rep. Diaz-Balart said: “This afternoon, I met with Governor Scott to discuss the ongoing battle with the Zika virus. As Floridians, we understand the urgent need to address this public health issue. It is significant to note that because of pressure from the House Appropriations Committee, the Administration has transferred and made $600 million immediately available to fight this virus. The Administration has not provided the Committee or Congress with the proper information as to how exactly any newly proposed funds will be spent. We have a responsibility to ensure that taxpayer money is used effectively and is not wasted. Regardless, I have been working with my colleagues, both on the Appropriations Committee and in our Florida delegation, to provide the necessary funds at the federal level to combat the virus. Speaker Paul Ryan and House Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers have made it clear they are committed to providing the Administration with what is needed to fight Zika. “I thank Governor Scott for taking the time to meet with myself and Congressmen Bilirakis and Curbelo. Zika has the potential to become a public health crisis, and Governor Scott’s leadership on this issue is vital and very much appreciated. Working together at the state and federal levels will result in the best response to fight this disease before it continues to spread.” Rep. Bilirakis said: “Our meeting with Governor Scott was very productive, and I look forward to working together, along with other FL members, and the federal government, to ensure all FL communities, and communities across the country, are safe. I have been on the front lines in the fight to address Zika. I discussed this issue with witnesses from FDA, NIH, CDC, and HHS during a hearing earlier this year and co-sponsored H.R. 4400, the Adding Zika Virus to the FDA Priority Review Voucher Program Act, which became law earlier this year. This bill allows the developer of a vaccine or treatment for a qualifying tropical disease to receive a voucher for FDA priority review for a second product of its choice, and will help immensely in the fight against the virus. There is no doubt funding is necessary to address the issue, however, we must determine funds are being used efficiently to keep individuals safe and prevent the spread of Zika. I have heard directly from stakeholders involved in preventing the spread of Zika - they have concerns about how the funds would be allocated. As we in Congress continue working with stakeholders to determine the best plan of attack, I will continue to be as proactive as possible. My top priority is to keep us safe.” Rep. Curbelo said: "I thank Governor Scott for his support in urging Congress to come together and fund eradication efforts of the Zika virus. As representatives from the state of Florida, we understand the real threat that Zika poses to our families and neighbors. We also discussed my bill, the Zika Eradication and Good Government Act, to ensure that when federal funds are disbursed, agencies tasked to fight the disease share best practice methods. It is critical that we continue to collaborate on finding solutions to reduce and ultimately eliminate the threat of Zika.”Reps. Diaz-Balart, Bilirakis, and Curbelo met with Gov. Scott to discuss the impact of the Zika virus in Florida.From left to right: Reps. Curbelo, Bilirakis, and Diaz-Balart are pictured with Gov. Scott (center) after discussing the Zika virus. ###
05.10.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) recognized Hialeah Gardens Senior High School sophomore Melanie Himely for her winning piece in the 25th congressional district’s 2016 Congressional Art Competition. Her piece, titled “Sharapova in Action,” was chosen out of 98 entries submitted from 14 participating schools. Melanie’s piece will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. A viewing reception for the submitted artwork was held on Friday, May 6, 2016 at Mary Collins Community Center in Miami Lakes, Florida. (L): Melanie Himely is pictured with Congressman Diaz-Balart at the 2016 Congressional Art Competition Reception. (R): Her winning piece, “Sharapova in Action” was done in charcoal and drawing pencils. The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 as a way to recognize and encourage the artistic talent of the country’s youth. Since then, over 650,000 high school students have participated nationwide. Each spring a winner is selected from each Congressional District in the U.S. ###
05.05.2016	WASHINGTON – This morning, at the request of Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Department of Housing and Urban Development Secretary Julian Castro met with Miami-Dade County Mayor Carlos Gimenez and Diaz-Balart’s senior staff to discuss the homeless grant award. HUD’s homeless assistance program has become increasingly competitive as HUD directs more funding to grantees that allocate resources to projects known to deliver better outcomes like permanent housing and rapid re-housing. Diaz-Balart, Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement: “Like many in South Florida, I was disappointed to learn of the loss of over $5 million in funding for essential homeless programs in the county. As we continue to gather information on the award, my staff and I will work with HUD to gain a clearer understanding of the agency’s decision making process and, perhaps more importantly, why HUD found the Homeless Trust’s grant application to be less competitive. Together with the Homeless Trust, county leadership, and concerned stakeholders, we must refocus our efforts on providing solutions that effectively help reduce homelessness in our community. I am grateful to the Secretary and his staff for accommodating the meeting this morning at such short notice.” Since 2015, Diaz-Balart has served as Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee. As Chairman of this Subcommittee, Diaz-Balart has jurisdiction over and sets funding levels for various transportation and housing programs, including homeless assistance grants. ###
04.27.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the passage of H.R. 699, the Email Privacy Act, of which he was a co-sponsor. “Today's passage of H.R. 699, the Email Privacy Act, amends the Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986. As law currently reads, the federal government has access to all of your email and text messages - without a warrant. Our electronic privacy laws had been drafted long before we knew the impact that email communication and smart phones would have in our daily lives, and it desperately needed to be updated. The federal government should not have access to the private messages of millions of Americans across the country without a court order. I am proud to support a bill that stops unwarranted intrusion and protects privacy.” ###
04.19.2016	WASHINGTON – Representatives Mario Diaz-Balart and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) issued the following statement regarding the denial of Mr. Ramon Saul Sanchez’s petition for United States residency after fourteen years. "Mr. Saul Sanchez has been an outspoken critic of some aspects of the Obama administration's policy toward the Castro regime. We have questions about the peculiar timing of the Obama administration's decision to deny Mr. Sanchez's petition for residency, who has been in the United States for 49 years and whose petition for residency has been pending for fourteen of those years." ###
04.15.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after reports that Panamanian authorities discovered 401 kilos of cocaine en route from Cuba to Belgium. "The Castro regime has once again been caught red-handed violating international law and norms. This time, it reportedly was caught red-handed sending hundreds of kilos of cocaine to Belgium. This is only the latest in the Castro regime's long history of links to narco-trafficking. “Shamefully, President Obama's overtures to the Castro regime have emboldened it to escalate its illicit activities. As this latest incident reveals, the Castro brothers remain a grave threat to U.S. national security interests and global stability. President Obama's policy of providing this rogue dictatorship with billions of dollars in sanctions relief is unconscionable. “I commend the Panamanian authorities for their effectiveness in rooting out narco-trafficking and illicit weapons smuggling. In light of the Castro regime's continued malevolence against the United States and complete disdain for international comity, President Obama should abandon his failed policy of appeasement and prohibit U.S. dollars from bolstering the Castro regime's illicit and dangerous activities.” In 2013, Panamanian authorities also caught the Castro regime smuggling 240 tons of military weapons to North Korea, which a U.N. panel of experts determined was the largest violation of sanctions against that country to date. Colombian authorities discovered a hidden shipment of weapons from Cuba on a Chinese-flagged vessel in 2015. ###
04.13.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) issued the following statement after Congressman Ander Crenshaw (R-FL) announced this morning he would not seek re-election this fall. "This morning, a longtime colleague and close friend Ander Crenshaw announced his retirement from the U.S. House of Representatives. I am proud to serve alongside a man who has given his life to public service, first in the Florida Senate, and now here in Congress. Ander has been a great mentor, colleague, and friend on the Appropriations Committee, and I, alongside our fellow appropriators, have truly benefitted from his insight and knowledge. He is a tireless advocate for our men and women in uniform, supporting them and advocating for naval assets in Northeast Florida. I wish the best for him, his wife Kitty, and their daughters, Sarah and Alex.” ###
03.24.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to an announcement by the National Association of Manufacturers. "Shamefully, the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) has called for an end to sanctions and the opening of unrestricted financial transactions with the Castro regime. “Under U.S. law, sanctions end once basic conditions are met in Cuba, including the scheduling of free, fair elections, release of all political prisoners, and legalization of political parties, independent labor unions and independent press. Until those simple conditions are met, the commonsense sanctions in the law must continue. “In totalitarian Cuba, the vast majority of the economy is run by the state, and key industries are controlled by the Cuban military. American businesses are not permitted to deal directly with Cuban individuals, but must do business with the Castro regime’s state-run monopolies that further anti-American objectives and oppress the Cuban people. For example, the Castro regime provides safe harbor to more than 70 fugitives from U.S. justice, including FBI’s “Top Ten Most Wanted Terrorist” Joanne Chesimard, admitted hijacker and alleged murderer Charles Hill, and terrorist bomb maker William Morales. In 2013, the regime was caught smuggling 240 tons of weapons to North Korea in the largest violation of international sanctions against that country to date. In February 2016, General James Clapper, Director of National Intelligence, testified that the Castro regime remains one of the most serious intelligence threats against the United States. And last year, the Castro regime perpetrated at least 8,616 political arrests against pro-democracy and human rights activists. These are not activities that U.S. businesses should subsidize. “Today, NAM wrongfully encourages U.S. businesses to deal directly with the Castro dictatorship and encourages their entanglement with a malevolent, anti-American dictatorship that brutally oppresses the Cuban people and threatens U.S. interests at every opportunity. I am disappointed that NAM has made such a misguided recommendation to its members.” ###
03.23.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to President Obama’s trip to Cuba. “President Obama's attendance at a baseball game, gleeful handshakes with the Cuban people's oppressors, and seeming apologetic tone with continued requests for ‘indulgence’ were sickening to those who know the true malevolence of the Castro regime that is responsible for the deaths of activists Oswaldo Paya, Orlando Zapata Tamayo, Laura Pollan, and Juan Wilfredo Soto Garcia, Harold Cepero, and Wilman Villar Mendoza during the Obama presidency alone. It is shameful that President Obama seeks to sustain the same dictatorship that murdered Brothers to the Rescue humanitarians Carlos Costa, Armando Alejandre, Jr., Mario De la Pena, and Pablo Morales, harbors more than 70 fugitives from U.S. justice including terrorists and indicted murderers, struck down dozens of men, women and children in the Tugboat Massacre of 1994, and routinely imprisons pro-democracy and human rights activists. “As of Monday evening, the Cuban Commission for Human Rights and National Reconciliation estimated approximately 304 political arrests during the President's trip, on top of the 1,447 political arrests in January and 1,141 in February this year. Among those arrested during the President's trip were more than 50 Members of the Ladies in White and more than 20 other activists on Palm Sunday. Renowned activists Berta Soler, Antonio Rodiles, and Pastor Mario Felix Lleonart Barroso were among those arrested, and many more were placed on house arrest. The Directorio Democratico Cubano responded to the dictator's laughable comment that Cuba has no political prisoners with a partial list. For Directorio's list of current political prisoners in Cuba, click here. “Fortunately, the policies promulgated by one man without the consent of Congress are reversible, and the Cuban people will gain their freedom despite the President's concessions to the Castro dictatorship. Now that President Obama's trip is over, the Cuban people will continue their struggle for human rights and essential liberties. They will do so despite President Obama's continued and shameful overtures to their oppressors.” ###
03.19.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement on the eve of President Obama's trip to Cuba. “Regrettably, President Obama will soon embark on a trip to once again embrace a brutal, murderous dictator in yet another shameful capitulation that does nothing to further U.S. national interests and help the Cuban people. Of the many countries that he could grace with a presidential visit, he has chosen the only totalitarian dictatorship in our hemisphere. “President Obama must demand the return of the more than seventy fugitives from U.S. justice including “Ten Most Wanted Terrorist” Joanne Chesimard, terrorist bomb maker William Morales, and Charles Hill. He should remember the Brothers to the Rescue victims and demand that the indicted pilots Lorenzo Alberto Perez-Perez and Francisco Perez-Perez, and then-head of Cuba’s Air Force General Ruben Martinez Puente, be turned over to U.S. authorities to face justice for the murders of three innocent Americans and one U.S. resident. He should demand that the Americans whose properties were stolen by the Castro regime receive just compensation. He should demand that the Castro regime stop smuggling weapons to North Korea in violation of international sanctions. He should demand that basic human rights and liberties are finally realized in Cuba. “The President should refuse to shake the blood-stained hands of the Cuban people’s oppressors, and instead, meet with courageous activists who are Cuba's true leaders, such as Berta Soler, Jorge Luis Garcia Perez Antunez, Antonio Rodiles, and so many others who have suffered arrests, beatings and other despicable acts of repudiation at the hands of Castro’s thugs. They are worthy of presidential recognition. “Fortunately, everything that President Obama has done is entirely reversible; he cannot unilaterally undo the laws that Congress and presidents before him have enacted. His trip has only symbolic and fleeting significance. I, along with my colleagues in Congress, will continue to stand firmly with the Cuban people as they struggle to achieve free, fair, multi-party elections, independent press and labor unions, and the liberation of all political prisoners. We will not join President Obama in his capitulations to an anti-American, brutal dictatorship that opposes U.S. interests at every opportunity." ###
03.17.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressmen Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to remarks offered by Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) during his weekly press briefing. “I commend the Speaker for his words today in support of both U.S. national security interests and the Cuban people in their struggle for basic rights and liberties. In stark contrast to President Obama’s shameful concessions to a brutal and oppressive dictatorship, the Speaker once again has demonstrated principled and decisive leadership in promoting core American values and interests. I am grateful for his invaluable dedication to freedom in our hemisphere and across the globe.” ###
03.10.2016	MIAMI – Los congresistas Mario Díaz-Balart (R-FL) y Carlos Curbelo (R-FL) se reunieron con el Embajador de Colombia, Juan Carlos Pinzón, y miembros de la comunidad colombiana en el sur de la Florida para discutir el proceso de paz en Colombia. La congresista Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) estuvo representada por su Jefe de Despacho y Director del Subcomité. Congresista Diaz-Balart: "Estoy muy agradecido que el Embajador Pinzón pudo viajar desde Washington, D.C. para esta reunión. Colombia es uno de nuestros mayores socios comerciales y es vital para la economía del sur de la Florida. La relación entre Estados Unidos y Colombia es una de las más importantes de nuestro hemisferio, y hay que seguir fortaleciendo y ampliando esos lazos. Sin embargo, he expresado mi profunda preocupación con respecto a este acuerdo entre el presidente Santos y las FARC, las mismas preocupaciones que comparten muchos en la comunidad colombiana-estadounidense. Nuestro encuentro con el embajador Pinzón fue muy informativo; obtuvimos detalles adicionales y su visión personal acerca de las negociaciones en curso con las FARC. También aprecio que habló largo y tendido y respondió a las preguntas de los líderes de la comunidad colombiana-estadounidense. Agradezco al Embajador Pinzón el haberse tomado el tiempo para reunirse con nosotros, y por permitirnos ser francos y sinceros en estas conversaciones". Congresista Curbelo: “Nuestra reunión con el Embajador Juan Carlos Pinzón fue fructífera y le agradecemos su tiempo y su franqueza en cuanto al proceso de paz en Colombia. Todos queremos la paz y la prosperidad para Colombia pero nos preocupan elementos de lo que se ha propuesto y las posibles consecuencias para los intereses de seguridad nacional de EEUU. Seguiremos dialogando con los residentes del Sur de la Florida y con el gobierno colombiano en cuanto a este importante tema”.Este encuentro fue concebido durante una reunión en febrero entre los congresistas Díaz-Balart, Curbelo y Ros-Lehtinen con el presidente de Colombia, Juan Manuel Santos, en Washington, DC. ###
03.10.2016	MIAMI – Congressmen Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and Carlos Curbelo (R-FL) met with Colombian Ambassador Juan Carlos Pinzón and members of the Colombian-American community in South Florida to discuss the Colombian peace process. Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) was represented by her Chief of Staff and Subcommittee Staff Director. Rep. Diaz-Balart: “I am grateful that Ambassador Pinzón was able to travel from Washington, D.C. for this meeting. Colombia is one of our largest trading partners, and that is vital to South Florida’s economy. The relationship between the United States and Colombia is one of the most important ones in our hemisphere, and we must continue to strengthen and expand those ties. However, I have expressed my deep concerns regarding this agreement between President Santos and the FARC, the same concerns that are shared by many in the Colombian-American community. Our meeting with Ambassador Pinzon was very informative; we were able to gain additional details and his personal insight about the ongoing negotiations with the FARC. I also appreciate that he spoke at length and answered questions from leaders of the Colombian-American community. I thank Ambassador Pinzón for taking the time to meet with us, and for allowing me to be frank and candid in these conversations.” Rep. Curbelo: “Our meeting with Ambassador Juan Carlos Pinzón and leaders of South Florida's Colombian-American community this afternoon was very productive, and we are grateful to him for his time and his candor regarding the peace process in Colombia. All of us want peace and prosperity for Colombia, but we have concerns with the ongoing negotiations and their ramifications for US national security interests. We look forward to continuing this dialogue with our constituents and with the Colombian government.”This meeting was a follow-up to a February Meeting where, along with other Congressional colleagues, Representatives Diaz-Balart, Curbelo, and Ros-Lehtinen met with Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos in Washington, D.C. ###
02.24.2016	WASHINGTON - El Congresista Mario Díaz-Balart hizo las siguientes declaraciones al conmemorar el derribo hace veinte años de las avionetas de Hermanos al Rescate. “Hoy es el vigésimo aniversario del día en que el régimen de Castro asesinó a tres estadounidenses y un residente de EE.UU. “El régimen de Castro no ha rendido cuentas por sus crímenes. Desgraciadamente, sólo unos días antes de este solemne aniversario, el presidente Obama anunció su intención de viajar a Cuba para visitar a Raúl Castro, el hombre que ordenó el asesinato de estos hombres inocentes. Y, además, en una de las muchas concesiones vergonzosas a la dictadura de Castro, el presidente Obama permitió que Gerardo Hernández, la única persona en prisión por el delito, volviera a Cuba en vez de cumplir sus dos sentencias de por vida. Mientras tanto tres militares cubanos, desde 2003, permanecen bajo acusación en los tribunales federales de Estados Unidos por asesinato, conspiración y destrucción de aeronaves. Rubén Martínez Puente (entonces comandante en jefe de la Fuerza Aérea de Cuba), y los hermanos y pilotos de combate Lorenzo Alberto Pérez Pérez y Francisco Pérez Pérez deben ser llevados ante la justicia por su participación directa en estos crímenes. Es una vergüenza que el presidente Obama no haya exigido como mínimo que estos asesinos fueran sometidos a la justicia como condición previa a la normalización. “En este solemne aniversario, recordamos la pérdida de Carlos Costa, Armando Alejandre Jr., Mario de la Peña y Pablo Morales, y celebramos su valor. Ofrezco mi más sincero pésame y mis oraciones a las familias de estos valientes héroes cuyas vidas fueron tomadas por un acto indignante y cobarde de terrorismo hace veinte años.” ###
02.24.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement on the 20th anniversary of the Brothers to the Rescue shoot down. “Today, we mark the twentieth anniversary of the day that the Castro regime murdered three Americans and one U.S. resident. “The Castro regime has not been held accountable for its crimes. Disgracefully, just a few days before this solemn anniversary, President Obama announced his plan to travel to Cuba to visit with Raul Castro, the very man who ordered the murder of these innocent men. And further, in one of many shameful concessions to the Castro dictatorship, President Obama allowed Gerardo Hernandez, the only person imprisoned for the crime, to return to Cuba rather than finish serving two life sentences. Meanwhile, three Cuban military operatives have remained under indictment in U.S. federal courts since 2003 for murder, conspiracy, and destruction of aircraft. General Ruben Martinez Puente, then head the Cuban Air Force, and brother fighter pilots Lorenzo Alberto Perez-Perez and Francisco Perez-Perez must be brought to justice for their direct role in these crimes. It is shameful that President Obama did not at least demand these men were brought to justice as a precondition to normalization. “On this solemn anniversary, we mourn the loss of Carlos Costa, Armando Alejandre Jr., Mario de la Peña, and Pablo Morales and celebrate their courage. My thoughts and prayers are with the families of those brave heroes whose lives were taken by an outrageous and cowardly act of terrorism twenty years ago.” ###
02.24.2016	WASHINGTON - Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart released the following statement after the House Judiciary Committee passed H.R. 3892, the Muslim Brotherhood Terrorist Designation Act of 2015, by a vote of 17-10. Diaz-Balart introduced the bill, and Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX) introduced a companion bill in the Senate. The bill would call on the State Department to recognize and sanction the Muslim Brotherhood as a foreign terrorist organization. “The Muslim Brotherhood continues to pose a global threat. The jihadist movement actively supports and finances terrorist networks around the world, including al-Qaeda and Hamas. The United States must recognize and sanction the Muslim Brotherhood as a terrorist organization as part of our national security strategy. I thank Chairman Goodlatte for his leadership and assistance in getting this bill through committee, and I look forward to working with him when it is brought to the floor.” ###
02.23.2016	WASHINGTON - El Congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (R-FL) hizo la siguiente declaración después de que el presidente Obama anunció su intención de cerrar la prisión de Guantánamo: "Una vez más, el presidente Obama prefiere imponer su ideología en vez de defender la Seguridad Nacional de Estados Unidos. Recuperar Guantánamo es el deseo número uno del régimen comunista de Castro. Me preocupa que cerrar el centro de detención sea sólo el primer paso hacia otras concesiones sustanciales e inmerecidas a una dictadura, en contra de la ley y los intereses de EE.UU. La ley no podría estar más clara: es ilegal tanto mover los detenidos a los Estados Unidos, como devolver el terreno al régimen sin la aprobación del Congreso. "Si el presidente estuviera intentando debilitar nuestra Seguridad Nacional, no podría hacerlo mejor. Aparte de los Castro, ha apaciguado a los mulás de Irán, a Maduro y sus matones en Venezuela, y Putin en Rusia. Pone en riesgo nuestra Seguridad para crearse un legado, pero al final su legado será el de haber claudicado ante los enemigos y oponerse a nuestros aliados". ###
02.23.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after President Obama announced his plans to close Guantanamo Bay prison: “Once again, President Obama has put ideology over America's national security. The return of the base at Guantanamo Bay is at the top of the Castro regime’s wish list. I am concerned that closing the detention facility is the first step toward providing yet another major, unwarranted concession to a dictatorship and in contravention of U.S. law and interests. The law could not be any clearer - it is illegal to both move the detainees to the United States and return the land to the regime without Congressional approval. “If this President was purposely trying to hurt our national security interests, he couldn't be doing a better job. As he has appeased the mullahs in Iran, Maduro and his thugs in Venezuela, and Putin in Russia, he is putting our national security at risk for the sake of creating a legacy. The only legacy he is leaving behind is weakening our leverage with our enemies and opposing our allies.” ###
02.18.2016	WASHINGTON – El Congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (R-FL) hizo la siguiente declaración en el segundo aniversario del encarcelamiento por el régimen venezolano del funcionario electo y activista pro democracia Leopoldo López. "Es indignante que Leopoldo López, que se atrevió a desafiar pacíficamente el régimen de Maduro, permanezca en prisión dos años después de las protestas de 2014. Incluso el Grupo de Trabajo de la ONU sobre la Detención Arbitraria exigió su liberación, declarando que su juicio a puerta cerrada estuvo ‘marcado por irregularidades graves’ y que el Sr. López tenía derecho a una indemnización y una disculpa. "El régimen de Maduro se rebajaría a cualquier nivel para debilitar y desmoralizar a la oposición. Apenas el mes pasado, la esposa y la madre del Sr. López informaron que fueron desnudadas delante de los hijos del Sr. Lopez, de seis y dos años de edad, cuando la familia estaba tratando de visitarlo en la cárcel de Ramo Verde de Venezuela. Pero encarcelar a la oposición y traumatizar a mujeres y niños inocentes no puede enmascarar la censura de los medios, la corrupción masiva, la brutalidad contra los manifestantes, la escasez y la aplastante inflación que han definido el legado de Chávez-Maduro. Las elecciones del pasado diciembre demostraron rotundamente que el pueblo de Venezuela está harto del desastroso régimen de Maduro y su intimidación y opresión. Me uno a ellos en exigir que Leopoldo López, y todos los presos políticos en Venezuela, sean liberados de inmediato. " ###
02.18.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement on the second anniversary of Venezuelan pro-democracy activist and elected official Leopoldo Lopez’s imprisonment by the Venezuelan regime. "It is outrageous that Leopoldo Lopez, who dared to peacefully defy the Maduro regime, remains in prison two years after the protests of 2014. Even the U.N.’s Working Group on Arbitrary Detention demanded his release, declaring that Mr. Lopez’s closed trial was ‘marked by serious irregularities’ and that Mr. Lopez was entitled to compensation and an apology. “The Maduro regime will stoop to any level to weaken and demoralize the opposition. Just last month, Mr. Lopez’s wife and mother reported that they were strip searched in front of Mr. Lopez's children, aged six and two, as the family was attempting to visit him in Venezuela’s Ramo Verde prison. Yet imprisoning the opposition, and traumatizing innocent women and children, cannot mask the media censorship, massive corruption, brutality against protesters, shortages, and crushing inflation that have become the Chavez-Maduro legacy. The December elections resoundingly declared that the people of Venezuela have had enough of the Maduro reign of intimidation and oppression. I join them in demanding that Leopoldo Lopez, and all political prisoners in Venezuela, must be released immediately." ###
02.18.2016	WASHINGTON -- Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to reports that President Obama would be announcing a March trip to Cuba. "Regrettably, President Obama's planned travel to Cuba is hardly a surprise. Instead, it is the latest addition to the litany of concessions to dictators that have come to characterize this administration. The Castro brothers continue to harbor more than seventy fugitives from U.S. justice including 'Most Wanted Terrorist' Joanne Chesimard, Charles Hill and William Morales, smuggle weapons with North Korea and China, and even invited Hezbollah to establish a stronghold within its borders. "While campaigning for President, Senator Obama promised in Miami that, 'I will maintain the embargo. It provides us with the leverage to present the regime with a clear choice: if you take significant steps toward democracy, beginning with the freeing of all political prisoners, we will take steps to begin normalizing relations.' Obviously, he has abandoned that commitment. And last year, he said that his trip to Cuba would be conditioned on an improvement in human rights. That if 'we're seeing some progress in the liberty and freedom and possibilities of ordinary Cubans, I'd love to use a visit as a way of highlighting that progress... I'm not interested in validating the status quo.' Yet in 2015, political arrests totaled more than 8,000 and political activists Danilo Maldonado Machado 'El Sexto', Vladimir Morera Bacallao, and Misael Canet Velazquez languished near death in Castro's gulag. Cuba remains the only country in the Americas to be classified as 'Not Free' by Freedom House. By any objective measure, the Castro regime has not improved its human rights record. Neither has it unclenched its fist. "During his time in Cuba, President Obama should at least meet with those who risk their lives in the struggle for freedom and who have suffered most as a result of his policy of appeasement. He should meet with activists such as Berta Soler and the Ladies in White, Jorge Luis Garcia Perez 'Antunez' and his wife Yris Tamara Aguilera, Danilo Maldonado Machado 'El Sexto', and Antonio Rodiles. "The Cuban people will be free. Unfortunately, they will do so in spite of President Obama's alliance with their oppressors." ###
02.10.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Congressman Gregg Harper (R-MS), Congressman Albio Sires (D-NJ), and Congressman Gerry Connolly (D-VA), Co-Chairs of the Congressional Taiwan Caucus released the following statement after Saturday’s earthquake in Taiwan. "As co-chairs of the Congressional Taiwan Caucus we send our sincere condolences to the people of Taiwan as they recover from a devastating earthquake Saturday. We look forward to working with the government of Taiwan as they rebuild, and pray for the families of those lost in the tragedy."
02.04.2016	WASHINGTON — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), and Congressman Carlos Curbelo (R-FL) released the following statement after meeting several agencies regarding the Cuban migrant crisis. “This morning we met with representatives from the Departments of Homeland Security, State, and Health and Human Services regarding the Cuban migrant crisis. Over the last several months, there has been a dramatic surge of people leaving the repressed island, yet it was only recently that the Obama administration acknowledged the problem. With an increase of 84% in the numbers of migrants reaching the U.S., it is critical that the administration has a credible plan to deal with the influx of migrants and the possible costs associated with their arrival. It is also important that in crafting this response, the administration communicate and work with us on a regular basis find the best solution for our South Florida community. It is becoming apparent that municipalities in South Florida will have to handle the influx of migrants, and accordingly, we strongly encouraged the administration to collaborate closely with local official officials to ensure that the federal response to the migrant crisis provides the necessary support to manage the increase in population and potential additional burdens on local resources.” In attendance at the meeting were: Congressman Diaz-Balart, Congresswoman Ros-Lehtinen, Congressman Curbelo, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX), Congressman Albio Sires (D-NJ), and staff from the offices of Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX), Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL), Senator Bill Nelson (D-FL), and Senator Bob Menendez (D-NJ). ###
02.03.2016	WASHINGTON — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after meeting with Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos. “I was pleased to join my colleagues for a meeting with President Santos this morning. As we move forward following the success of Plan Colombia, we must ensure our bilateral relationship remains strong and enduring. In order to continue combatting the drug trafficking and cartels, we must further collaborate with the Colombian government at all levels to succeed. This relationship is also crucial to continuing trade and the positive affect it has on our economy, especially right here in Southern Florida. I have a number of serious concerns about the FARC and the ongoing negotiations with the terrorist organization. Among them, I strongly believe the organization must denounce terrorism and stop all terrorist activities. It must dismantle its entire narcotrafficking operation - no exceptions. The United States must also stand firmly against the release of narcotraffickers like Ricardo Palmera (‘Simón Trinidad’); their release will compromise national security and should not be used as a bargaining chip.” (Photo courtesy of Colombian Government) ###
01.27.2016	WASHINGTON -- Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the Obama administration announced another round of concessions to the Castro regime. "This brazen attempt to allow direct trade with the Castro regime has revealed fully that President Obama's policy has nothing to do with supporting the Cuban people but has everything to do with propping up a brutal, anti-American dictatorship 90 miles from our shores. "With political arrests surpassing 8,000 last year and brave political prisoners such as Vladimir Morera Bacallao, Danilo Maldonado Machado ('El Sexto'), and Misael Canet Velazquez nearly perishing in prison over the past several months, the Castro regime's human rights record remains the worst in our hemisphere. Shamefully, for the first time since the murderous Castro regime seized power decades ago, we have a U.S. president who repeatedly sides with the oppressors over the oppressed. "However, the majority in Congress and every Cuban-American member, whether Democrat or Republican, whether in the House or Senate, continues to fiercely oppose President Obama's appeasement of the Castro regime. In contrast to the President, we remain in steadfast solidarity with Cuba's true leaders -- the political prisoners and human rights activists who risk everything to demand change in Cuba. We will continue to oppose the Obama-Castro deals that undermine the Cuban people's struggle for freedom by supporting their jailers." ###
01.20.2016	WASHINGTON – El congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (R-FL) hizo la siguiente declaración para exigir la liberación inmediata del periodista independiente Misael Canet Velázquez. “El 17 de diciembre de 2015, el periodista independiente Misael Canet Velázquez del Frente de Resistencia Cívico Orlando Zapata Tamayo fue violentamente detenido y encarcelado por expresar su deseo de libertad. Ha estado en huelga de hambre desde hace 28 días y, según su familia, está detenido en condiciones deplorables en la notoria prisión Kilo 8 de Camagüey, sin ropa o un lugar adecuado para dormir, y acceso limitado al agua. “El arresto de Misael fue uno de los más de 8.000 que se produjo en Cuba desde el 17 de diciembre 2014, cuando el presidente Obama anunció concesiones incondicionales al régimen comunista de Castro. Es vergonzoso que no hayan mejorado los derechos humanos en este tiempo. De hecho, varios de los 53 presos políticos liberados en el acuerdo Obama-Castro han sido detenidos de nuevo. Insto al gobierno de Obama que presione para la liberación inmediata de los activistas incluyendo Misael, Hugo Damián Prieto Blanco, Vladimir Morera Bacallao, Jorge Ramírez Calderón, y el resto de los presos políticos en Cuba. Hasta que los gulags de los Castros se vacíen de todos los presos inocentes y se respeten los derechos humanos y las libertades básicas, no debe haber concesiones al régimen de Castro.” ###
01.19.2016	WASHINGTON —Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement calling for the immediate release of independent journalist Misael Canet Velázquez. “On December 17, 2015, independent journalist Misael Canet Velázquez of the Orlando Zapata Tamayo Civic Resistance Front was violently arrested and imprisoned for expressing his desire for freedom. According to reports, he has been on hunger strike for at least 27 days and, according to his family, is being held in abhorrent conditions in Camaguey’s notorious Kilo 8 prison without clothes or a suitable place to sleep, and has been provided limited access to water. “Misael’s arrest was one of more than 8,000 that occurred in Cuba since President Obama’s December 17, 2014 announcement of unconditional concessions to the Castro regime. Shamefully, the dictatorship’s human rights record has not improved. In fact, several of the Obama-Castro ‘53’ released political prisoners have been rearrested. I urge the Obama administration to press for the immediate release of activists including Misael, Hugo Damian Prieto Blanco, Vladimir Morera Bacallao, Jorge Ramirez Calderon, and all other political prisoners in Cuba. Until Castros’ gulags are emptied of all innocent prisoners, and basic human rights and liberties are respected, there must be no further concessions to the Castro regime.” ###
01.15.2016	WASHINGTON — Today, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) sent a letter to President Obama expressing concern about the imprisonment of independent labor activist Jorge Ramirez Calderon, one of the 53 political prisoners released as part of the Obama-Castro deal of December 2014. Diaz-Balart also demanded the permanent and unconditional release of all of Cuba’s political prisoners. You may find a copy of the letter here. ###
01.08.2016	WASHINGTON – House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) today announced that Representative Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will deliver the Republican Address to the Nation in Spanish following the State of the Union address on Tuesday, January 12, 2016. “Mario Diaz-Balart has long been a tremendous ambassador for communicating conservative principles and bold, pro-growth solutions,” Speaker Ryan said. “In a year when the country is crying out for an alternative to the status quo, we will offer a vision for a more confident America at home and abroad.” “I am grateful to Speaker Ryan for giving me the opportunity to deliver the Republican address in Spanish,” Rep. Diaz-Balart said. “The United States and the American people face grave challenges, all of which can be overcome with leadership in Washington, DC that understands the greatness of our country. We need a president who will unify, not divide; a president who will stand with our allies and stand up to enemies of freedom. House Republicans are committed to putting our country back on a path to prosperity, creating solutions that will bolster the economy, cultivate job growth, and provide for a robust national defense. The American people deserve nothing less.” Mario Diaz-Balart is fulfilling his 7th term in the U.S. House of Representatives. He serves as Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Subcommittee of the House Committee on Appropriations, the House Committee on the Budget, and is the Co-Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Conference and the Congressional Everglades Caucus. Prior to his time in Congress, Diaz-Balart served 14 years in the Florida State Legislature. Mario Diaz-Balart was born on September 25, 1961 in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida. He studied at the University of South Florida and currently resides in Miami, Florida with his wife and son. NOTE: The Republican Address to the Nation in Spanish will be available after the State of the Union at https://www.youtube.com/user/GOPespanol/. Follow @GOPEspanol for additional updates.
01.06.2016	WASHINGTON — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in reaction to President Obama’s executive order. “By announcing his executive order yesterday, President Obama is targeting the rights of millions of law-abiding citizens. Instead of clearing the path for serious mental health reform or supporting law enforcement, he is making a political gesture to make a so-called legacy out of his last year in the White House. The brave men and women who risk their lives for our communities deserve to be protected too, which is why I am a proud co-sponsor of H.R. 814, the Thin Blue Line Act, a bill that ensures those convicted of murdering a first responder face the harshest penalty for such a malicious act. I am pleased that Speaker Ryan has made mental health reform a priority for the 114th Congress. I am proud to be a co-sponsor of H.R. 2646, the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act, which makes real reforms to our nation’s mental health system. I believe in taking tangible steps that will not only support our law enforcement and truly reform the mental health system, but also work towards preventing senseless violence that claims innocent lives.” ###
12.29.2015	WASHINGTON — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement regarding incarcerated Cuban pro-democracy activist Vladimir Morera Bacallao. "Vladimir Morera Bacallao is in intensive care after being transferred from his prison cell where he has been on hunger strike since October 9, 2015. Reports indicate that he is gravely ill. "Morera Bacallao was released as part of the Obama-Castro deal announced on December 17, 2014. However, he was re-arrested in April 2015 for placing a sign outside his home during the Castro regime's sham 'elections' that said, 'I vote for my freedom and not in an election where I cannot choose my president.' Last month, the Castro regime gave Morera Bacallao a new four-year prison sentence for the 'crime' of expressing his political opinion. "During the Obama administration, activists Orlando Zapata Tamayo and Wilman Villar Mendoza died under uncannily similar circumstances. Activists Laura Pollan and Oswaldo Paya also perished at the hands of Castros' thugs during this administration. "Morera Bacallao has risked everything for the basic right to have a voice in his government. His unjustifiable imprisonment and mistreatment are further indictments of the brutal malevolence of the Castro regime, and the utter failure of Obama's appeasement of Cuba's dictators. I urge human rights organizations and the Obama administration to bring attention to the urgent case of Vladimir Morera Bacallao, and to demand that he receive immediate medical attention. We must not remain silent while another courageous activist hovers on the brink of death." ###
12.18.2015	WASHINGTON — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the passage of the omnibus appropriations bill. “Today, I joined colleagues from both sides of the aisle to prioritize crucial programs that keep our country running. With this bill, we are able to provide robust resources to protect and enhance our national security, provide housing assistance to our nation's most vulnerable, and permanently reauthorize the 9/11 Victims Compensation Fund. I want to commend Speaker Ryan and Chairman Rogers for their leadership in negotiating and finalizing this legislation. I look forward to beginning the 2016 appropriations process in the new year.” Congressman Diaz-Balart, Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Subcommittee of the House Committee on Appropriations, was successful in including the following items in the appropriations omnibus: $130 million for ongoing Everglades restoration efforts $64.1 million for continued improvements to the Herbert Hoover Dike $7.5 million to combat the damaging effects of citrus greening disease An increase in resources for SOUTHCOM to support intelligence and surveillance activities and counter-narcotics Permanent reauthorization of the 9/11 Victims Compensation Fund Housing assistance to our nation's most vulnerable Fully fund Section 8 vouchers and public housing assistance $433 million for housing for the elderly $151 million for housing for persons with disabilities $60 million for housing for homeless veterans Increase to rail safety programs $4.9 billion for TSA, including funding to improve passenger screening operations, equipment, training, and other protocols, as well as enhancements to intelligence and vetting programs $3.1 billion to keep our commitment to Israel $30 million towards spinal cord injury (SCI) research for competitive grant funding for institutions such as The Miami Project to Cure Paralysis $32.1 billion for the NIH, with specific increases to Alzheimer’s research, brain research, and antibiotic research 1.3% pay raise for members of the armed forces Prohibiting the IRS from targeting groups based on ideological beliefs Prohibiting the IRS from targeting individuals based on their First Amendment Rights ###
12.17.2015	WASHINGTON — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the passage of H.R. 2029, the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act. "This afternoon, the House of Representatives voted in support of H.R. 2029, which would make numerous tax extenders permanent and protect Americans from further tax hikes. These extenders promote research and innovation, delay some of the damage from the President's disastrous healthcare law, and expand the Child Tax Credit. From small business owners and active duty military, to teachers and families, this bill is a victory for all taxpayers. I am glad to have supported this bill that stimulates job creation, stops a number of President Obama's tax increases, and takes concrete steps to rein in the out of control IRS." ###
12.17.2015	WASHINGTON — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in reaction to the anniversary of President Obama’s failed appeasement and concession policy towards the Castro regime. “One year ago today, President Obama announced his plan to provide further concessions to the Castro regime in exchange for precious little in return. The regime swapped an innocent humanitarian aid worker that it unjustly imprisoned for five years, and promised to release 53 political prisoners. In exchange, President Obama granted diplomatic recognition to the Castro dictatorship, removed it from the state sponsors of terrorism list, released convicted spies including one serving a life sentence for conspiracy to murder, and eased sanctions on financial transactions and trade with a dictatorship that holds the worst human rights record in our hemisphere. “And what have the U.S., and the Cuban people, gained from President Obama's policy? Just take a look at the facts. Political arrests totaled 1,447 in November, the highest monthly tally this year, and there have been 7,686 political arrests this year to date. More than half of the Obama-Castro so-called ‘list of 53’ political prisoners have been re-arrested in the past year. Desperate Cuban refugees are fleeing the regime in ever greater numbers. Meanwhile, the Castro regime is sending members of its military to prop up fellow dictator Assad in Syria and smuggling military weapons to rogue international actors. “Sadly, the President's decision to coddle brutal dictators rather than embrace the people they oppress has had dismal consequences. From Tehran to Damascus to Havana, a President once given the Nobel Peace Prize has done nothing but allow tyranny to entrench itself. His policies have not helped the oppressed around the world, but have been a boon to repressive regimes across the globe.” ###
12.07.2015	WASHINGTON —Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement regarding yesterday’s Venezuelan elections. “Yesterday, Venezuelans went to the polls en masse to soundly reject the oppression, corruption and mounting failures of the Maduro regime. Today, hopes are high that the people of Venezuela have an opportunity to chart a new course toward prosperity and freedom. “Following reports of election irregularities, intimidation, arrests of opposition leaders, and vast media censorship, the Obama administration must increase pressure on the Maduro regime and impose sanctions on those involved in human rights abuses. Although the leadership of the National Assembly is changing, the Maduro regime is still in power. Those who were involved in the assassination of Luis Manuel Diaz, and those who attempted to silence and intimidate opposition leaders must be held accountable. We must do all that we can to ensure that the results of yesterday's elections are respected, and that the Maduro regime does not undermine the legislature's authority. “Despite obstacles imposed by the Maduro regime and his thugs, the Venezuelan people courageously mandated change. I commend the people of Venezuela for rejecting the Chavez-Maduro legacy that has plagued them for far too long. I look forward to standing with them as they begin the process of building a brighter future for themselves and their children.” ###
12.04.2015	WASHINGTON —Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement regarding Venezuela’s upcoming elections this Sunday. “On the eve of Sunday's elections, the people of Venezuela must have the opportunity to chart a new course with elections that are free of corruption, intimidation or interference. The Chavez-Maduro legacy of shortages, skyrocketing inflation, corruption, oppression and violence has devastated Venezuela's economy, curtailed liberties, and repressed civil society. The imprisoned members of Venezuela's opposition are a testament to the courage of Venezuela's independent leaders, and to the repression that they endure. “I stand with the people of Venezuela as they demand a government that responds to their needs, respects basic liberties of expression, media, and association, and promotes democratic institutions such as an independent judiciary. We can only hope that this election will not end like past elections that have been stolen by Venezuelan dictators. When the Maduro regime has finally come to an end, Venezuela can launch a new course toward prosperity, liberty, and honest government. I fully support the brave opposition leaders and pray that Sunday will mark the start of Venezuela's brighter future.” ###
11.17.2015	“The Obama administration’s clueless and inept foreign policy is a major contributing factor to why we now face this Syrian refugee crisis. We know that the Islamic State is utilizing the refugee crisis to send radical Islamic jihadists around the world, as we saw with the horrific attacks in Paris. Unfortunately, this administration has demonstrated that it cannot properly screen these refugees. This was confirmed last month when FBI Director Comey said that his agency could run into issues screening incoming refugees if they were not already in the FBI database. Knowing these facts, it is clear that at this time, the Obama administration cannot be trusted to continue this program which jeopardizes our national security. “In order to help stem this refugee crisis, we must have a strategic plan to deal with Syria, Iraq, and the Islamic State in the Middle East. Through the appropriations process, we have provided financial assistance to these refugees and countries in the affected region, and I still fully support that assistance. At the end of the day, we have to ensure that our most important priority is our national security.” ###
11.13.2015	Washington, D.C.—Representatives Mario Diaz-Balart, Gerry Connolly, Albio Sires, and Gregg Harper, the co-chairs of the Congressional Taiwan Caucus, made the following statement regarding the meeting between the presidents of Taiwan and China: “Last weekend, the leaders of Taiwan and China met for the first time in more than sixty six years. As co-chairs of the Congressional Taiwan Caucus, the largest nation based caucus in the House of Representatives aiming to strengthen U.S.-Taiwan relations, we will continue to strive for dignity and equality for Taiwan, as well as peace and stability in the Asia Pacific region. “It is crystal clear that due to China’s long time coercion, Taiwan remains isolated from international society, inadequately armed and threatened. The United States will continue to honor the Taiwan Relations Act and the Six Assurances, and will continue to provide defensive weapons based solely upon our judgement of the needs of Taiwan. We also will continue to examine ways to help Taiwan to join international organizations and regional trade and economic mechanisms. Taiwan is a close friend, strong ally and important security partner with the United States. We reaffirm our commitment to Taiwan in order to preserve its thriving democracy, freedom and peace.”
11.12.2015	WASHINGTON — Today, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the arrests of several Cuban pro-democracy activists by the Castro regime. "Yesterday, Castro regime thugs once again arrested pro-democracy activists Edelvis Granda Pérez, Ciro Alexis Casanova Pérez, Yris Tamara Pérez Aguilera, leader of the Rosa Parks Women’s Movement for Civil Rights, and Jorge Luis García Pérez Antúnez*, leader of the Orlando Zapata Tamayo Civic Resistance and Civil Disobedience Front. Upon the arrests, Castro’s thugs went into his home and seized Antunez’s computer, CDs, and other personal items. On the day prior to these activists’ arrests, they began a campaign of 'No, no and no' to the dictatorship and were protesting the unjust imprisonment of activists Geovanys Izaguirre Hernández and Laudelino Rodríguez Mendoza whose 'crime' was distributing leaflets protesting the Castro regime. "Once again, the Castro regime has demonstrated that its malevolence and brutality have not waned. In fact, repression continues to escalate. Shamefully, the Obama administration’s policy of appeasing dictators and its abandonment of promoting human rights in Cuba has emboldened the regime to intensify its oppression against the Cuban people. Although those arrested yesterday finally were released today, they and the Cuban people remain imprisoned by a regime that arrests, brutalizes, threatens and steals from them at will. Egregious human rights abuses such as those committed against Cuba’s pro-democracy leaders yesterday must be roundly condemned and sanctions tightened until fundamental rights and liberties are fully realized in Cuba." *In his support of a free and democratic Cuba, then-Speaker of the House John Boehner invited Antúnez to be his guest at the 2015 State of the Union address. ###
11.10.2015	MIAMI — Today, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) honored a group of local veterans for their service in the United States Armed Forces. The Congressional Veteran Commendation is a nominations-based program designed to recognize the wartime sacrifices and peacetime community involvement of veterans residing in Florida’s 25th Congressional District. The honorees, listed below, will be interviewed and their wartime collections will be added to the Veterans History Project, sponsored by the Library of Congress. Master Sergeant John A. Cornejo – United States Air Force, Hialeah Gardens, FloridaCommander Douglas J. Fitzgerald – United States Navy, Doral, FloridaRadioman 3rd Class Gilbert Antonio Irizarry – United States Navy, Hialeah, FloridaCaptain Crisilda Irizarry-Anson – United States Army, Doral, FloridaChief Petty Officer Matthew William Kindermann – United States Marine Corps/United States Navy, La Belle, Florida Congressman Diaz-Balart with honorees, from left to right: Commander Douglas J. Fitzgerald, Master Sergeant John A. Cornejo, Radioman 3rd Class Gilbert A. Irizarry, and Chief Petty Officer Matthew W. Kindermann. Not pictured: Captain Crisilda Irizarry-Anson ###
11.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) and Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-Fla.) yesterday introduced the Muslim Brotherhood Terrorist Designation Act, urging the Secretary of State to designate the Muslim Brotherhood as a foreign terrorist organization. The U.S. has officially listed individual members, branches, and charities of the Muslim Brotherhood as terrorists, but has not designated the organization as a whole. The Muslim Brotherhood poses a direct and severe threat to U.S. national security through radical jihadist attempts to eliminate and destroy America and its allies. “This bill recognizes the simple fact that the Muslim Brotherhood is a radical Islamic terrorist group. For years, American presidents of both parties have correctly designated the Brotherhood’s various affiliates, such as Hamas and Ansar al-Sharia, as terrorist groups. They have designated individual Muslim Brotherhood leaders such as Shaykh Abd-al-Majd Al-Zindani, who was complicit in the 2000 attack on the USS Cole, and Sami Al-Hajj, who was captured on the Afghanistan-Pakistan border in 2001 running money and weapons for al Qaida, as terrorists. Now we can reject the fantasy that their parent institution is a political entity that is somehow separate from these violent activities,” Sen. Cruz said. “A number of our Muslim allies have taken this common-sense step, including Egypt, Saudi Arabia, and the UAE. As this bill details, the Brotherhood’s stated goal is to wage violent jihad against its enemies, and our legislation is a reality check that the United States is on that list as well.” “I proudly join Sen. Cruz to introduce this bill in both chambers. This legislation codifies into law something that is long overdue. The Muslim Brotherhood has a long history of terrorism around the world. The group supports and stands behind numerous terrorist organizations that are responsible for acts of violence and aggression,” Rep. Diaz-Balart said. “It is time for Congress and the Department of State to recognize and sanction them as they deserve – as a foreign terrorist organization.” Read the full text of Rep. Diaz-Balart's bill here. ###
10.28.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the passage of H.R. 1314, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015. "The two year budget deal will help to stabilize our nation's economy. First and foremost, the budget prevents President Obama from continuing his political games with our national security, allowing Congress to support our troops with the additional resources they need. It also provides necessary entitlement reform by strengthening the Social Security program and the Disability Insurance Trust fund, and protecting seniors from a devastating 50% increase to their Medicare Part B premiums. The budget deal alo eliminates the wasteful auto-enrollment mandate from the President's healthcare law. The mandate forced employees to auto-enroll in their employers' healthcare coverage, leaving them to pay for expensive insurance they might not want or need. "I want to thank Speaker Boehner for his leadership on this momentous budget deal. This once again shows his commitment to the American people and our country, even down to the last hours of his time as a Member of Congress." ###
10.27.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the passage of H.R. 597, To Reauthorize the Export-Import Bank of the United States. "Today's passage to re-authorize the Export-Import Bank will help support the American economy. The Export-Import Bank needed serious reforms, and this legislation achieves that by strengthening risk management, increasing small business lending requirements, enforcing greater anti-corruption safeguards. At a time where nations such as China and Russia are subsidizing businesses for exports, I do not think unilaterally disarming efforts to ensure American businesses can compete internationally is in the United States’ best interest, especially back home in Southern Florida. “I proudly represent the district that ranks #1 among all congressional districts by the number of businesses the banks supports. The majority of these businesses are not Fortune 500 companies, but rather small businesses heavily reliant on exports-imports. These small businesses depend on financing from the Export-Import Bank to compete with the heavily subsidized businesses in China and Russia, and provide jobs to individuals in the district. The district ranks #15 in the total dollar value of exports supported related to the Bank’s financing. “This bill will not only bolster our national economy, but our local economy as well. I will continue to support legislation that will positively impact Florida’s 25th congressional district.” ###
10.27.2015	WASHINGTON –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart released the following statement after the United Nations General Assembly voted to oppose U.S. sanctions against the Castro regime. Both the United States and Israel voted against the resolution. “Today, once again, the United Nations General Assembly held a purposeless vote to reprimand the United States Congress for its solidarity with the Cuban people and opposition to the oppressive Castro regime. “The UN has a checkered history of supporting dictators at the expense of the people. When human rights activists in Cuba attempt to distribute the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, they routinely are arrested, beaten, and harassed. The Castro regime does not respect the inherent dignity of the individual and the inalienable rights to which all people are entitled, which are the cornerstones of that Declaration. It is a disgrace that the UN body does not defend its essential principles as vigorously as it defends the Castro dictatorship. Instead, it has again turned a blind eye to mounting human rights abuses perpetrated against the Cuban people and focused its misguided criticism on the United States.” ###
10.07.2015	WASHINGTON – Earlier this week, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) announced that Collier County achieved a substantial victory in a 10-year struggle with FEMA over reimbursement for sand replenishment and beach restoration projects following Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma in 2005 and Tropical Storm Gabrielle in 2001. Collier County pursued a corrective response to reverse FEMA’s decision to take back (deobligate) millions in funding previously approved by both the Florida Department of Emergency Management (FDEM) and FEMA. FEMA granted Collier’s appeal of $7.76 million after considerable documentation showed Collier was eligible for costs associated with sand replacement and engineering, survey, and environmental compliance costs. Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) welcomed the news with the following statement: “This is a big step in the right direction for Collier and shows what is possible when we all work together to limit the overreach of the federal government. Together, Collier County leadership and the Southwest Florida Congressional Delegation have worked closely to resolve this for more than three years with letters, meetings, and conference calls with FEMA. I especially want to thank County Manager Leo E. Ochs, Jr., Deputy County Manager Nick Casalanguida, Coastal Zone Manager Gary McAlpin and their hard-working staff for their determination in settling this issue with a positive solution. I also want to recognize County Commission Chair Tim Nance for his continued involvement and engagement. “As Floridians, we are fully aware of the vital role FEMA plays before, during, and after a natural disaster and I am pleased we were able to resolve this. The beaches of Collier County are important to the area’s tourism and economy, and protecting and restoring them for residents and visitors alike is something we must continue. “I also want to commend my colleague, Congressman Curt Clawson, for quickly getting up to speed on this complex issue and for our collaborative approach to resolving problems for the residents of Southwest Florida.” ###
09.30.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in support of Steve Scalise as the next Majority Leader. “I have had the pleasure of working with Steve Scalise on a number of complex issues, as well as part of the Whip Team. Steve works inclusively, knows how to get things done, and most importantly, is a man of his word. Steve has honorably and effectively served the House of Representatives as Majority Whip. I look forward to what he will be able to accomplish as Majority Leader.” ###
09.28.2015	WASHINGTON – El congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (R-FL) hizo la siguiente declaración para exigir la liberación inmediata del artista cubano Danilo Maldonado Machado, conocido como “El Sexto.” "Los informes indican que El Sexto, un artista cubano que ha sido encarcelado desde diciembre de 2014 por su arte que disgusta al régimen comunista de Castro, está muy enfermo. Según estos informes, lleva una huelga de hambre desde el 8 de septiembre y está sufriendo en condiciones deplorables en la prisión de Valle Grande. “A principios de este mes, El Sexto escribió una carta de despedida a su familia y a todos los que han apoyado su reclamo de libertad. En la carta, dijo estar dispuesto a dar su vida cien veces por la libertad de Cuba. Este artista valiente ha arriesgado todo por el futuro de Cuba. Debemos hacer todo lo posible para asegurarnos de que no perezca en la cárcel del régimen de Castro. “El Sexto ha estado en prisión desde el mes en que el presidente Obama anunció el inicio de las capitulaciones hacia al régimen de Castro. Demando al presidente, y a otros que dicen apoyar la libertad del pueblo cubano, que se unan a mí para exigir la liberación inmediata e incondicional de El Sexto.” ###
09.28.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement calling for the immediate release of Cuban artist Danilo Maldonado Machado, known as “El Sexto.” "Reports indicate that El Sexto, a Cuban artist who has been imprisoned since December 2014 for his artwork that the Castro regime finds objectionable, is very sick. According to these reports, he has continued a hunger strike since September 8 and is suffering in deplorable conditions in the Valle Grande prison. “Earlier this month, El Sexto penned a farewell letter to his family and all those who have supported him in his calls for freedom. In his letter, he said that he is willing to give his life a hundred times for Cuba's freedom. This courageous artist has risked everything for Cuba's future. We must do all we can to ensure that he does not perish in Castro's prison. “El Sexto has been in prison since the month of President Obama's announcement promising ever further capitulations to the Castro regime. I call on the president, and others who purport to support freedom for the Cuban people, to join me in demanding El Sexto's immediate and unconditional release.” ###
09.25.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after a group of Cuban pro-democracy activists wrote a letter to the U.S. Congress. “Cuban pro-democracy activists recently wrote a letter asking the U.S. Congress to maintain sanctions against the brutal Castro regime until human rights and democratic principles are realized in Cuba. These renowned activists explain that, since President Obama’s December 2014 announcement and the Summit of the Americas in April 2015, repression in Cuba has escalated. In fact, the Cuban Commission on Human Rights and National Reconciliation documented 768 political arrests in the month of August alone. The courageous activists who signed this letter have risked vicious reprisals simply by daring to support sanctions against the Castro regime until the most basic conditions are met. We must continue to stand with the Cuban people and the brave activists who have assumed enormous risk to send this message to Congress. “The Castro regime’s days are numbered. I am grateful to my colleagues in Congress for their continued support of the Cuban people and for refusing to fund and sustain the ailing dictatorship that brutally oppresses them.” ###
09.18.2015	WASHINGTON —Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the passage of H.R. 3504, the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act, and H.R. 3134, the Defund Planned Parenthood Act. “I proudly supported these two pieces of legislation that help protect the sanctity of life. In the case of a failed abortion, the child must immediately be transported and admitted to a hospital to receive medical care. As H.R. 3504 states, failing to do so will result in criminal charges against those involved. These babies are able to feel pain just like we do. Justice must also be taken against those who commit the horrific crimes that we have heard about in the recent videos that exposed Planned Parenthood’s vicious tactics. In order to make sure that the unborn are not treated like parts for sale, H.R. 3134 places a one-year freeze on both mandatory and discretionary funding for Planned Parenthood. This funding moratorium will allow enough time for a detailed Congressional investigation. These bills are just another way we can protect life and be a voice for those without one. ” ###
09.11.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement regarding his vote against the Iran Deal. “Today, I voted against a bill that would approve the dangerous and irresponsible deal that was negotiated by Secretary Kerry and the Obama Administration with the murderous regime in Iran. I strongly believe this deal will become one of the most perilous mistakes in U.S. history. This deal recognizes and legitimizes Iran's nuclear weapons program in short order. It allows Iran to develop intercontinental ballistic missiles, putting our national security at grave risk. Furthermore, I am convinced that this will lead to a nuclear arms race in the Middle East. History will record this deal as the moment the United States, and the world, granted the largest, most dangerous state sponsor of terrorism that which it covets the most – nuclear weapons and the means to deliver them. I stood firmly in opposition to this deal, and I will do everything in my power to contain, pressure, and defeat the terrorist regime in Iran.” ###
09.01.2015	MIAMI – Today, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), and Congressman Carlos Curbelo (R-FL) commented on the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services’ (USCIS) decision to prioritize the pending cases of Cuban medical professionals who escaped conscripted service in Venezuela and applied for relief under the Cuban Medical Professional Parole (CMPP) Program in Colombia. Combined, the offices of Representatives Diaz-Balart, Ros-Lehtinen, and Curbelo have had at least 20 cases resolved since their letters were sent to the Administration asking for an expeditious resolution to the dozens of pending cases. "USCIS has favorably responded to our urgent requests to expeditiously and fairly review the cases of Cuban medical professionals who fled to Colombia. The CMPP Program, instituted during the Bush Administration, is essential to helping physicians in inhumane working conditions escape forced labor abroad. I will continue to work diligently with my colleagues to ensure that Cuban medical professionals forced to work abroad have the opportunity to escape their abysmal work conditions. The Castro regime contracts with foreign countries to sell the work of Cuban medical professionals, often separates the professionals from their families, and keeps as much as 70 percent of their salaries. This is not charity; it is forced labor that earns the Castro regime a hefty profit at the expense of Cuban workers,” said Diaz-Balart. "I'm so very pleased that Cuban medical professionals in Colombia are finally getting their cases reviewed because they have been living under poor conditions and every day, their situation becomes a bigger heartache. My colleagues and I see the human toll that Castro's evil regime takes on freedom seeking folks. Our U.S. embassies must do their part to help process all legitimate petitions in a timely manner because that is what this special program is designed to do," said Ros-Lehtinen. “Since concerns were raised over delays in resolving the cases of Cuban doctors in Colombia, the State Department has taken the issue more seriously. While I’m still disappointed by the unnecessary delays the doctors experienced in receiving a response, I am pleased that we now seem to be on a pathway to resolve their cases,” said Curbelo. ###
08.14.2015	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after reports that the Obama administration chose to exclude Cuban pro-democracy leaders from the ceremony with Secretary Kerry at the U.S. post in Havana. "That a U.S. Secretary of State would sideline Cuba's pro-democracy activists simply to avoid offending their oppressors is unthinkable. In Cuba, pro-democracy and human rights activists strive each day, at grave personal risk, to achieve freedom for the Cuban people. It is shameful that President Obama and Secretary Kerry have stooped so low as to publicly choose the Castro regime over the Cuban people, and exclude Cuba's brave leaders from a U.S.-hosted event at our post in Havana. Our U.S. mission in Cuba has always been a welcoming haven and symbol of liberty for those struggling for freedom in the midst of tyranny. The U.S. must remain unequivocal in its support for democracy, human rights and essential liberties, which necessarily includes standing by those struggling to achieve them." ###
07.22.2015	WASHINGTON— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement on the third anniversary of the deaths of Oswaldo Payá Sardiñas and Harold Cepero Escalante, who died at the hands of the Castro regime. “Today, we remember Cuban pro-democracy activists Oswaldo Payá Sardiñas and Harold Cepero Escalante who died at the hands of Castros’ thugs three years ago today. “Prior to their deaths, Oswaldo Payá and Harold Cepero, both of the Christian Liberation Movement, were repeatedly threatened for daring to oppose the repression of the Castro regime. The eye witness testimony of Spaniard Ángel Carromero, who was driving the car involved in the fatal crash, affirms the Castro regime’s culpability. The pattern of pro-democracy activist deaths in Cuba during the Obama Administration alone – Orlando Zapata Tamayo (d. Feb. 23, 2010), Juan Wilfredo Soto García (d. May 8, 2011), Laura Pollán (d. October 14, 2011), and Wilman Villar Mendoza (d. January 19, 2012) – is alarming. “The Payá and Cepero families need answers. Oswaldo Payá‘s daughter, Rosa Maria Payá Acevedo, bravely asked the UN Human Rights Council for an investigation into the death of her father. Despite threats against her and her family, she continues the struggle for the Cuban people’s freedom and demands an objective investigation into her father’s death. However, at Monday’s press conference with representatives of the very regime that killed her father, the U.S. State Department informed Rosa Maria Payá that if she did not stay quiet, she would be escorted from the conference. Shamefully, the Obama Administration adopted a tactic from the Castro regime’s playbook and became complicit in attempting to silence a pro-democracy activist. Rosa Maria Payá suffered great personal loss due to the Castro regime’s oppression and brutality. She deserves better from the Obama Administration and the U.S. State Department. “Despite the Obama Administration’s shunning of Cuban pro-democracy activists such as Rosa Maria Payá, my colleagues and I continue to stand with them in their struggle for human rights and democracy. The Cuban people will win their freedom thanks to their persistence and courage. “On this solemn day, we remember the sacrifice of activists such as Oswaldo Payá and Harold Cepero. My thoughts and prayers are with their families.” ###
07.20.2015	WASHINGTON— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement regarding President Obama’s decision to extend diplomatic recognition to the Castro regime. “Today, we see the completion of another step in President Obama’s failed policy of appeasing brutal dictators that threaten U.S. interests. In Cuba and elsewhere, the administration has removed human rights and America's security from the President's foreign policy agenda. Since the President's December 17, 2014 announcement, there have been well over 2,500 political arrests in Cuba. For the past fourteen consecutive Sundays, at least seventy activists have been arrested, including the courageous Ladies in White who protest on their way to mass. Instead of tightening sanctions against the Castro regime in response to continued human rights abuses and arrests, President Obama has ceded important leverage. “A Cuban embassy in Washington will not represent the Cuban people. The Cuban people have not chosen the Castros as their leaders. A Cuban embassy will represent the Cuban military and intelligence services that perpetuate human rights abuses against them. Purportedly to help the Cuban people achieve ‘independence from Cuban authorities,’ President Obama continues to appease and channel resources to their oppressors. The Castro regime is not the Cuban people. If only we had a president that knew the difference.” ###
07.14.2015	WASHINGTON— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement following the announcement of a nuclear deal with Iran. “This agreement with Iran seems to be a bad deal for the United States and our allies. Getting rid of the necessary sanctions will simply help fund Iran’s continuous terrorist activities, including those against Americans. Not only is the deal short of what Congress expected, but it also falls short of what President Obama had initially outlined when negotiations began almost two years ago. Furthermore, this deal will put Israel, one of our strongest allies, at grave risk. I will continue to review details as they emerge, but from what I have seen so far, this deal will certainly incentivize nuclear proliferation in the region, which appears to be another shameful legacy for President Obama and his administration.” ###
07.13.2015	WASHINGTON— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement honoring the victims of the “13 de Marzo” attack on its 21st anniversary. “On the 21st anniversary of the 13 de Marzo massacre, we remember the lives lost that day. Just a few miles off the island, Cuban regime agents deliberately capsized a tugboat carrying dozens of people who were fleeing the oppressive dictatorship. Using pressurized water cannons, regime agents sprayed the boat, knocking off those on deck, including women and small children as young as five months old. Those precious lives will never be forgotten. “Just yesterday, for the thirteenth Sunday in a row, over 120 Cuban activists were beaten and arrested for attempting to attend Mass. The ailing Castro regime's days are numbered, and Cuba's criminals will be held accountable for their crimes. Until then, we will stand with the Cuban people in their struggle for freedom. My thoughts and prayers are with those who were lost 21 years ago today and their families.”
07.06.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after Antonio Rodiles, a reowned pro-democracy leader and founder of “Estado de SATS” was brutally attacked by agents of the Castro regime. "Yesterday, Antonio Rodiles, renowned pro-democracy leader and founder of the independent program ‘Estado de SATS’ in Cuba, was violently attacked and his nose shattered by Castros' thugs. Also yesterday, for the 12th consecutive Sunday, more than 80 activists were beaten on their way to mass, including dozens of members of the Ladies in White. “Since President Obama's December 17, 2014 announcement, the Castro regime's brutality against innocent pro-democracy leaders has escalated. Predictably, following the President's announcement a few days ago that he will press ahead with opening embassies without any conditions, the human rights abuses in Cuba continue unabated. The Castro regime has been emboldened by President Obama's shameful disinterest in human rights and liberties in Cuba. “The beatings, oppression, and arbitrary arrests must end. The Cuban people must be free to speak their minds, assemble freely, practice their faiths, and choose their leaders. Those are hardly onerous burdens for a government in the twenty-first century. While the President might be unphased by the brutality, oppression, and lack of fundamental freedoms 90 miles from our shores, the American people and Congress will not join him in tossing a lifeline to the Cuban people's oppressors. Instead, we continue to stand firmly with courageous activists such as Antonio Rodiles and the Ladies in White who sacrifice, bleed, and suffer countless indignities simply to achieve freedom and a hopeful future for the Cuban people.” ###
07.01.2015	WASHINGTON – El congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (R-FL) hizo las siguientes declaraciones después de que el Departamento de Estado de Estados Unidos y el régimen cubano anunciaran que volverán a abrir embajadas en La Habana y Washington, D.C. "Al seguir adelante con sus planes de abrir una embajada de Estados Unidos en La Habana y una embajada de Cuba en Washington, el presidente Obama continúa con su política fallida de apaciguar a dictadores brutales que amenazan a intereses estadounidenses. Es una vergüenza absoluta que la política exterior del presidente ignore la defensa de los derechos humanos y la seguridad de los Estados Unidos. El régimen de Castro ha respondido a las incontables concesiones del presidente Obama aumentado la represión de los activistas pro-democracia. Desde el anuncio del Presidente el 17 de diciembre 2014, se han producido más de 2.000 arrestos políticos en Cuba. Durante los últimos doce domingos, más de setenta activistas han sido detenidos, incluyendo a las valientes Damas de Blanco que protestan en su camino a misa. En febrero de este año, la dictadura cubana fue sorprendida traficando con armas a través de territorio colombiano, hecho ocurrido después de que un panel de expertos de la ONU emitiera una condena severa a Cuba en marzo 2014 por su tráfico ilegal de armas a Corea del Norte. Por si fuera poco, varios diplomáticos-espías cubanos han sido expulsados de los EE.UU. por sus actividades de espionaje. Si una embajada de Cuba abre en Washington, no va a representar al pueblo cubano. Sí representará a los servicios de inteligencia cubanos que perpetúan los abusos de derechos humanos contra el pueblo cubano. Sí servirá a los intereses de los militares que trafican armas ilegalmente a nuestros adversarios. Y, muy directamente, sí servirá a los dictadores que continúan empobreciendo y oprimiendo al pueblo cubano. El pueblo cubano no ha elegido a los Castro como sus líderes. Al contrario, los líderes verdaderos de Cuba son los que están en la cárcel, o que han perdido sus medios de vida, tarjetas de racionamiento, vivienda y salud, simplemente por exigir los derechos humanos. El régimen cubano no los representa. Es su enemigo. Por estas razones, el Subcomité de la Cámara encargada de Asignaciones de Estado, Operaciones Extranjeras y Programas Relacionados negó fondos para una embajada de Estados Unidos en La Habana y para una embajada y consulados de Cuba en los EE.UU. en su proyecto de ley para el año fiscal 2016. Para supuestamente ayudar al pueblo cubano a alcanzar la ‘independencia de las autoridades cubanas’, el presidente Obama sigue apaciguando a sus opresores. El pueblo cubano está pidiendo a gritos solidaridad con su lucha por la libertad, no colaboración con los que lo encarcelan. Ojalá tuviéramos un presidente que entendiera la diferencia.” ###
07.01.2015	WASHINGTON - Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the U.S. State Department and Cuban regime announced they will reopen embassies in Havana and Washington, D.C. "By pressing ahead with plans to open a U.S. embassy in Havana and a Cuban embassy in Washington, President Obama continues his failed policy of appeasing brutal dictators that threaten U.S. interests. It is an utter disgrace that the administration has removed human rights and America's security from the President's foreign policy agenda. The Castro regime has increased its oppression of human rights and pro-democracy activists in the wake of President Obama's ceaseless overtures. Since the President's December 17, 2014 announcement, there have been well over 2,000 political arrests in Cuba. For the past twelve consecutive Sundays, more than seventy activists have been arrested, including the courageous Ladies in White who protest on their way to mass. In February of this year, the Cuban dictatorship was caught smuggling weapons through Colombian territory, which occurred after severe condemnation of Cuba's illegal weapons smuggling to North Korea from a U.N. panel of experts in March 2014. In addition, several Cuban diplomat-spies have been expelled from the U.S. for their espionage activities. If a Cuban embassy opens in Washington, it will not represent the Cuban people. It will represent the Cuban intelligence services that perpetuate human rights abuses against the Cuban people. It will serve the interests of the military generals that illegally smuggle weapons to our adversaries. And, most directly, it will serve the dictators that will continue to impoverish and oppress the Cuban people. The Cuban people have not chosen the Castros as their leaders. Instead, Cuba's true leadership includes those who are in prison, and who have lost their livelihoods, ration cards, housing, and health, simply for demanding human rights. The Cuban regime does not represent them. It is their enemy. For these reasons, the House Subcommittee for State, Foreign Operations and Related Programs Appropriations denied funding for a U.S. embassy in Havana, and a Cuban embassy and consulates in the U.S. in its FY 2016 bill. Purportedly to help the Cuban people achieve "independence from Cuban authorities," President Obama continues to appease their oppressors. The Cuban people are calling out for solidarity with their struggle for freedom, not collaboration with those that imprison them. If only we had a president that knew the difference.
06.18.2015	WASHINGTON - El Congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (R-FL) publicó la siguiente declaración después de presentar la Ley de Restauración y Cobertura Mercado Libre Salud de 2015. "Con el fallo King v. Burwell acercándose rápidamente, presente legislación que permitiría a las familias en el distrito 25 y a todos los estadounidenses mantener sus primas mientras republicanos de la Cámara preparan una solución real y permanente. Creo firmemente que nuestros constituyentes no deben sufrir las consecuencias negativas de las destructivas decisiones de los demócratas del Congreso y del Presidente Obama. Este proyecto de ley extenderá las subvenciones actuales hasta 2017, manteniendo las primas a la tasa actual. También deroga Obamacare en mayo 2017, permitiendo que el próximo Presidente trabaje de manera bipartidista con el Congreso. Me comprometo a seguir trabajando con mis colegas con el fin de conseguir esto. Los estadounidenses merecen tener acceso a la atención que necesitan, de los médicos que eligen, a precios que pueden pagar". Para ver el proyecto de ley, por favor haga clic aquí. ###
06.18.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after introducing the Free Market Healthcare Restoration and Coverage Act of 2015. "With the King v. Burwell ruling quickly approaching, I introduced legislation that would allow my constituents and Americans across the country to keep their premiums while House Republicans work on a real and permanent solution. I strongly believe that our constituents should not suffer the negative consequences of the poor decisions made by Congressional Democrats and President Obama. This bill will extend current subsidies until 2017, keeping premiums at the current rate. It also repeals Obamacare in May 2017, allowing the next President to work in a bipartisan fashion with Congress. I am committed to continue working with my colleagues in order to get this done. Americans deserve access to the care they need, from the doctors they choose, at a price they can afford." To view the text of the bill, please click here.
06.16.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Founder and Co-Chairman of the Everglades Caucus, released the following statement after the House Committee on Appropriations passed the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill for FY16. “As Founder and Co-Chairman of the Everglades Caucus, I am very pleased with the Everglades funding levels in the Interior Appropriations bill for FY16. Everglades National Park is a natural treasure that we must preserve and protect for future generations. I have worked diligently with my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee to ensure that the Everglades restoration and operations programs were adequately funded. Restoration is crucial to protect our state’s ecosystem and provides for our drinking water supply. Furthermore, restoration and operations funds can result in a boost to our state’s economy. I look forward to continue working with my colleagues to ensure that the Everglades may flourish for many years to come.” National Park Service funds in the bill include $139 million for Everglades restoration within Big Cypress National Park, Biscayne National Park, Everglades National Park, and Dry Tortugas National Park, and $10 million for interagency coordination to support restoration efforts and ensure the following: $4.8 million to keep the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan (CERP) on schedule and without further delay $3.9 million for Critical Ecosystems Studies Initiative (CESI) to allow ecologists to better understand the park’s ecosystem and wildlife species $1.9 million for the South Florida Ecosystem Restoration Task Force Diaz-Balart was also successful in including funding for Everglades restoration projects in the FY16 Energy and Water Appropriations bill, which passed the House last month, and included the following items that are specific to South Florida: $64 million for the Herbert Hoover Dike repair and restoration $123 million for Everglades restoration and construction projects for the Army Corps of Engineers $7 million for operation and maintenance of Army Corps of Engineers projects ###
06.09.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Subcommittee of the House Committee on Appropriations, released the following statement after the passage of H.R. 2577, the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill for FY16. "I am very pleased with the passage of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill for FY16. This bill prioritizes our nation's infrastructure and housing needs, while adhering to the imposed sequestration cuts. “We prioritized programs and spending to achieve a number of very important goals, including: continuing the funding levels of MAP-21 contingent upon reauthorization, keeping the commercial air space running smoothly, and preserving the housing option for all current HUD-assisted families. "Rail safety is a priority for Americans across the country, and we have ensured that all safety and operational measures in the bill were fully funded, including $2 million for safety training and $1.1 million for 16 new rail grade inspectors. We even accepted amendments to provide additional rail safety resources. Many roads, bridges, and tunnels across America are in dire need of restoration, and the legislation provides $40.3 billion towards their repair and renovation. The $15.9 billion provided to the Federal Aviation Administration ensures full funding for air traffic control and its safety personnel that keep our airports efficient. "I recognize the importance of providing stability and keeping people in their homes, and the legislation ensures that all families who are currently receiving Section 8 and Public Housing Assistance will continue to receive it. This bill protects our most vulnerable by increasing funding for housing for the elderly to $416 million and $152 million for the disabled. "The common sense provisions in the bill, which prohibit new flights to Cuba and deny licenses to marine vessels that use property confiscated from Americans, further core American values and safeguard the property rights of Americans. We must not permit the exploitation of properties stolen by the Castro regime, which is expressly prohibited in U.S. law. "Difficult decisions had to be made, but I am confident that this legislation best supports our housing and infrastructure priorities and the Americans who depend on them. I'd like to thank Chairman Rogers for his leadership, support, and guidance during the entire process of moving this bill. I'd also like to thank Ranking Member Price for his willingness to work with me. I look forward to working with Senator Collins to address our nation’s infrastructure and housing needs.” ###
06.04.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the United States House of Representatives issued two strong rebukes of President Obama’s policy towards Cuba in both the Commerce, Justice, and Science and the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bills for FY 2016. “This week, the House strongly confirmed its commitment to support key American values by denying U.S. exports to the Cuban military, and ensuring that the property claims of Americans are respected. “The House issued two strong rebukes of President’s Obama’s absurd policy toward Cuba which turns a blind eye to U.S. law and channels resources to the Cuban people’s oppressors. The Farr Amendment to CJS, which would have allowed direct exports to the Cuban military, was rejected by a vote of 153-273, and the Barbara Lee amendment to THUD, which would have allowed the use of confiscated properties for new flights and the docking of marine vessels, was rejected by a vote of 176-247. The House unequivocally voted to stand with the Cuban people and uphold the core American principles of liberty and the rule of law. “On December 17, 2014, President Obama stated, ‘I believe that more resources should be able to reach the Cuban people.’ Certainly supporting the Cuban people does not include channeling goods to the oppressive Cuban military and intelligence services, nor does it include facilitating the unlawful use of stolen properties that were illegally confiscated from Americans. President Obama purports to ‘help’ the Cuban people through policies that actually empower and fund the Cuban military and intelligence services that oppress them, and while facilitating the trafficking of stolen property. “Regrettably, President Obama has turned a blind eye to U.S. law and longstanding U.S. policy which prohibits tourism dollars to the Castro regime and expressly protects Americans’ property rights. The House today strongly expressed its support of U.S. law, its full intention to continue to uphold core American values, and ensuring the respect of both human rights and property rights. ###
06.03.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the passage of the Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Appropriations bill for FY 2016. “I strongly support the Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Appropriations bill for FY 2016 which passed by a vote of 242-183, and strongly support the provision that prohibits exports to the Cuban military. I firmly opposed the amendment which would have stripped that common sense provision that failed by a decisive vote of 153-273. I commend Chairman Culberson on crafting a solid bill that funds our priorities and furthers key American values “On December 17, 2014, President Obama stated, ‘I believe that more resources should be able to reach the Cuban people.’ The CJS provision ensures that exports to Cuba accomplish precisely that goal. President Obama even created an exception within the general prohibition on exports to Cuba entitled, ‘Support for the Cuban People (SCP).’ Certainly the supporting of the Cuban people must not include channeling goods to the Cuban military and intelligence service that oppress them through arbitrary arrests, violence, intimidation, and unjust imprisonments. “Not only is the Cuban military responsible for oppressing the Cuban people, but it engages in illegal weapons smuggling, subverts democratic institutions in Venezuela, and assists foreign terrorist organizations and other rogue regimes such as North Korea. Furthermore, several Members of the Cuban military remain under indictment for the murder of innocent U.S. citizens. “Exports delivered to the Cuban military will do nothing to benefit the Cuban people, but can only directly fund the oppressive arm of the Castro dictatorship that remains a malevolent actor on the world stage. The narrow, commonsense provision in CJS does not prohibit exports to Cuba. Instead, the CJS provision simply ensures that U.S. exports cannot be controlled by the Cuban military and intelligence service.” ###
05.29.2015	WASHINGTON, DC— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after President Obama’s decision to remove Cuba from the State Department’s state sponsors of terror list. “Regrettably, President Obama chose to remove Cuba from the U.S.-designated state sponsors of terror list. He made this ill-advised decision despite the Castro regime's continuation of its terrorist activities, including illegal weapons smuggling, extensive espionage activities, assistance to terrorist organizations and rogue regimes, harboring fugitives from U.S. justice, including terrorists Joanne Chesimard and William Morales, and even protecting three high-ranking members of its military who have outstanding federal indictments for murdering Americans. The President's decision was wrong on the facts and wrong on policy. Just two days before the anniversary of the Taliban Five swap, President Obama is at it again. This does not come as a surprise, as President Obama has an unfortunate history of appeasing those who are a threat to our country's national security interests. Instead of supporting the pro-democracy movement and its leaders on the island, President Obama continues to earn his Appeaser-in-Chief title by continuing his endless concessions to the Castro regime. Congress will continue its efforts to counter his destructive policies.” ###
05.24.2015	WASHINGTON, DC— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) encourages families and individuals to prepare for Hurricane Season. Diaz-Balart promotes National Hurricane Preparedness Week, which begins on May 24th and runs through May 30th. Hurricane Season starts Monday, June 1st. “With the 2015 Hurricane Season quickly approaching, I encourage Floridians to prepare their homes and families. Southern Florida has been fortunate to have been out of Mother Nature’s path in recent years, but we must be ready for whatever may happen. If the right steps are taken, we can better prepare our homes and communities to be more resilient against the effects of these natural disasters,” said Congressman Diaz-Balart. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) kicked off their annual National Hurricane Preparedness Week to create awareness leading up to the start of the season. Hurricane Preparedness Checklists in both English and Spanish can be found on Congressman Diaz-Balart’s website. More information and ideas can be found at www.ready.gov/hurricanes. Information on the different types of severe weather such as tornadoes, severe thunderstorms, and flooding is available at www.weather.gov or the Spanish-language web site www.listo.gov. ###
05.20.2015	WASHINGTON – Los congresistas Mario Díaz-Balart (R-FL), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) y Carlos Curbelo (R-FL) enviaron una carta a la fiscal general Loretta Lynch tras recibir informes de que el Gobierno de Barack Obama podría estar considerando soltar al narcoterrorista de las FARC Ricardo Palmera (alias “Simón Trinidad”) de la prisión federal en los Estados Unidos para participar en "negociaciones" en La Habana entre las FARC, organización terrorista extranjera según EEUU, y la administración del presidente de Colombia Juan Manuel Santos. Palmera es el miembro de las FARC de más alto rango que haya sido capturado y condenado. Actualmente cumple una condena de sesenta años en una prisión de máxima seguridad en el estado de Colorado (EEUU). "Enviamos una carta a la fiscal general Lynch indagando si el Departamento de Justicia soltará a Ricardo Palmera, uno de los jefes de la organización terrorista de las FARC que fue declarado culpable y condenado a sesenta años en la corte federal por su papel en tomar como rehenes a tres estadounidenses inocentes. "Desafortunadamente, el expediente del presidente Obama demuestra su tendencia de liberar a los terroristas más peligrosos y criminales, como los ‘Cinco Talibanes’ y los espías castristas Gerardo Hernández, Antonio Guerrero y Ramón Labañino. Consistentemente ha otorgado concesiones a enemigos de Estados Unidos, en detrimento de nuestros intereses nacionales fundamentales. A la luz de estas capitulaciones, es importante que el pueblo estadounidense y el Congreso sepan si el Departamento de Justicia de Obama soltará este terrorista convicto para apaciguar a las FARC y los dictadores en La Habana". Para leer la carta en inglés, por favor haga clic aquí. ###
05.20.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in honor of Cuba’s Independence Day. “Today marks another anniversary of Cuba’s independence from Spain. Regrettably, the Cuban people remain oppressed by a brutal dictatorship that has no respect for fundamental human rights or liberties. Despite President Obama’s countless and shameful concessions to the Castro regime, the American people and Congress continue to stand with them. Cuba has the worst human rights record in our hemisphere, and has done nothing to earn the many concessions that the Obama administration continues to provide the regime. “Instead, on this day, we join in firm solidarity with the Cuban people, including the courageous pro-democracy activists, political prisoners, independent journalists, artists, labor activists, and religious leaders in their struggle to achieve the liberties to which all peoples are entitled. The Cuban people must be able to assemble freely, express dissent, worship in the faith of their choice, and keep the fruits of their labor. That simple desire for freedom has not been dampened by decades of authoritarian rule in Cuba. “To the contrary, the days of the ailing octogenarians that run Cuba are numbered. When the Cuban people finally win their freedom, they will remember those who stood with them.” ###
05.19.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), and Congressman Carlos Curbelo (R-FL) sent a letter to Attorney General Loretta Lynch following reports that the Obama Administration might be considering whether to permit convicted FARC commander Ricardo Palmera to leave federal prison in the United States for “negotiations” in Havana between the FARC, a U.S.-designated foreign terrorist organization, and the Santos Administration. Palmera is the most senior member of the FARC to be captured and convicted, and is currently serving a 60-year sentence in a maximum-security prison in Colorado. "Today, we sent a letter to Attorney General Lynch asking whether the Department of Justice will facilitate the early release of Ricardo Palmera, a commander of the FARC terrorist organization who was convicted and sentenced to sixty years in federal court for his role in the hostage-taking of three innocent Americans. “Unfortunately, President Obama has a history of releasing the most dangerous terrorists and convicted felons imprisoned by the United States, such as the Taliban Five and Gerardo Hernandez, Antonio Guerrero, and Ramon Labanino, and he has repeatedly conceded to America's enemies to the detriment of our key national interests. In light of these capitulations, it is important that the American people and the Congress are informed as to whether President Obama's Justice Department will facilitate the release of this convicted terrorist to appease the FARC and the dictators in Havana.” To read the letter, please click here. ###
05.01.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), founder and co-chair of the Congressional Everglades Caucus and chair of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Subcommittee of the House Committee on Appropriations, released the following statement after the passage of H.R. 2028, the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2016. “The FY16 Energy and Water Appropriations bill provides for our nation’s waterways and energy infrastructure. As Floridians, we are lucky to have the Everglades in our backyard, and we must do everything we can to restore it to its natural state for future generations. This bill is significant to Florida, not only because of the Everglades restoration components, but it will improve our ports, channels, dams, and other infrastructure that supports our economy. Furthermore, Everglades restoration is critical for our drinking water supply in South Florida, while also providing a huge economic boost to our state. As a member of the Appropriations Committee, I have worked tirelessly with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to include full funding to restore the Everglades in this legislation, and I am very pleased with its passage. “I am grateful to Chairman Simpson for his leadership on this bill, and most importantly, for helping continue the preservation of one of our nation’s greatest natural treasures.” Diaz-Balart founded the Congressional Everglades Caucus in 2005 with Congressman Alcee Hastings to provide a strong voice in Washington to advocate for these issues and increase awareness. Within the FY16 Energy and Water Appropriations bill, the following are specific to South Florida: $64 million for the Herbert Hoover Dike repair and restoration $123 million for Everglades restoration and construction projects for the Army Corps of Engineers $7 million for operation and maintenance of Army Corps of Engineers Projects ###
04.30.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), member of the Budget Conference Committee and chair of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Subcommittee of the House Committee on Appropriations, released the following statement after the House passage of S. Con. Res. 11, the Bicameral Budget Resolution for FY2016. “As a budget conferee, I know how much hard work and dedication has been put into seeing that our national security and other vital programs are prioritized. House and Senate Republicans have come together to make the difficult decisions that need to be made and do what the people sent us to Washington for – to govern and create a balanced budget for a stronger America. By strengthening entitlement programs like Medicare and Social Security, it protects our seniors and their access to healthcare. This budget resolution reflects our commitment to our national defense and the brave men and women who provide it. The Congressional Budget Office has estimated the budget resolution would add 1.2 million jobs over the next decade, bolstering our nation’s economy. Additionally, the budget resolution addresses Washington’s out of control spending problem by including more than $5 trillion in savings and balancing within 10 years without raising taxes. “I’d like to thank Chairman Price for his leadership in putting this budget together and seeing it through both conference and passage.” ###
04.30.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after reports that Cuban human rights activist Yuriet Pedroso González is gravely ill following a hunger strike. “Human rights activist Yuriet Pedroso González has been on a hunger strike for 60 days to protest his unjust imprisonment and inhumane treatment. He is gravely ill in a state hospital in Santa Clara, Cuba. Many fear that he will not survive. “The Castro dictatorship has been emboldened by President Obama's policy of proceeding with "normalization" despite the regime's continued brutal repression. The Holguin headquarters of the Ladies in White was recently burned, and political arrests continue to escalate. “I call on the Obama administration to roundly condemn the egregious human rights abuses that are ongoing in Cuba, and to demand that Yuriet immediately receive the medical attention that he needs. The Castro regime has the blood of many innocents on its hands, and we must do all we can to prevent further loss of life.” ###
04.14.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), member of the House Committee on the Budget and chair of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Subcommittee of the House Committee on Appropriations, released the following statement after he was appointed as a conferee to the bicameral budget conference. “I am honored to have been chosen as a conferee, and I am grateful to Speaker Boehner and Chairman Price for this opportunity. With the national debt at $18 trillion and growing, it is imperative that we cut waste, while also prioritizing funds to necessary programs. It has been over a decade since our country has had a balanced budget, and it is time to change that. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the budget conference as we begin to get America’s fiscal matters back in order.” ###
04.14.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the Obama Administration announced the Cuban regime’s removal from the state sponsors of terrorism list. “Once again, President Obama has demonstrated that his eagerness to capitulate to dictators has no bounds. Today, the administration has jeopardized U.S. national security by choosing to absolve the Castro dictatorship of its dangerous anti-American terrorist activities across the globe. The Castro regime's extensive espionage activities, shoot-down of unarmed civilian aircraft in international waters, assistance to the Maduro regime in oppressing the opposition and subverting Venezuela's democratic institutions, harboring members of terrorist organizations such as the FARC and ETA, harboring fugitives from U.S. justice including terrorists Joanne Chesimard and William Guillermo Morales, and weapons smuggling in violation of international sanctions are just a few of the Castro regime's links to terrorism. The facts clearly show the Castro regime continues to be a state sponsor of terrorism. This is just another shameful concession to the Castro regime. Fortunately, most sanctions against the Castro regime are codified in U.S. law and can only be lifted by the U.S. Congress, when free, fair elections are scheduled, independent labor unions, political parties, and the press are legalized, and all political prisoners are freed. “According to reports, the President has pressured the intelligence and foreign policy communities to ignore the dangerous activities of the Cuban dictatorship so that he can provide another gift to an enemy of the United States and put Americans at even greater risk. I am alarmed by his endless concessions to not only the Castro regime, but also numerous enemies of the United States, such as Iran. The longsuffering Cuban people, who continue to struggle for the realization of human rights and democracy in Cuba, and the American people, living with an aggressive anti-American dictatorship 90 miles from our shores, deserve much better from the President.” ###
04.08.2015	WASHINGTON- El Congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (R-FL) publicó la siguiente declaración después de que varios ciudadanos estadounidenses y activistas pro-democracia cubanos fueron violentamente atacados esta tarde por agentes del régimen de Castro en Panamá. La Cumbre de las Américas se está llevando a cabo en la Ciudad de Panamá, Panamá. "Hoy, el régimen de Castro volvió a demostrar que es la misma dictadura violenta y terrorista que siempre ha sido, ya que continúa exportando violencia y agresión a cualquier lugar donde se encuentre los activistas por la libertad. "En un acto despreciable de violencia, agentes de Castro atacaron brutalmente a los ciudadanos estadounidenses Orlando Gutiérrez, Silvia Iriondo y Gus Monge, que acompañaban a los activistas pro-democracia Jorge Luis García Pérez (Antúnez), Yris Pérez Aguilera, Juan Carlos González Leyva, Leticia Ramos Herrería, Rolando Rodríguez Lobaina y otros en Panamá para una cumbre de la sociedad civil. "Condeno firmemente a este acto de violencia en contra de los ciudadanos estadounidenses y los activistas pro-democracia en Panamá. Exijo que Panamá responsabilice a estos verdugos por los delitos cometidos en su territorio y espero que el presidente Obama haga lo mismo. Semejantes actos de violencia no pueden quedar impunes. En lugar de estrecharle la mano al dictador de Cuba en la cumbre, el presidente Obama debe ponerse de lado de los defensores de la libertad y exigir públicamente el cese inmediato de la represión violenta hacia pueblo cubano.” ###
04.08.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after several American citizens and Cuban pro-democracy activists were violently attacked this afternoon by Castro regime thugs in Panama. The Summit of the Americas is currently taking place in Panama City, Panama. "Today, the Castro regime once again demonstrated that it is the same violent, terrorist dictatorship that it has always been, as it continues to export its brand of thuggery and aggression anywhere that it finds dissent. “In a despicable act of violence, Castro thugs viciously assaulted American citizens Orlando Gutierrez, Silvia Iriondo, and Gus Monge, who were accompanying pro-democracy activists Jorge Luis Garcia Perez (Antunez), Yris Perez Aguilera, Juan Carlos González Leyva, Leticia Ramos Herrería, Rolando Rodríguez Lobaina, and others in Panama for a civil society summit. “I firmly condemn this act of violence against the American citizens and the pro-democracy activists in Panama. I demand that Panama hold the thugs accountable for crimes committed on its soil against innocent Americans and pro-democracy activists, and I expect President Obama to do the same. Such an egregious act of violence cannot go unpunished. Rather than taking the hand of Cuba's chief thug at the summit, President Obama must stand with the freedom advocates and publicly demand an immediate end to the violent repression of the Cuban people.” ###
04.02.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after a tentative framework was reached in nuclear talks with Iran. “Once again, the Obama Administration continues blowing past their own self-imposed deadlines to finalize an actual agreement. This framework lacks any real details and continues to kick the can further down the road. The few details that have been announced seem to do little to dismantle Iran’s nuclear weapons program or to address the threat to our allies in the Middle East, especially Israel. Lifting sanctions against Iran will only help fund its terrorist activities. Iran has a notorious history of avoiding inspections and transparency. Furthermore, this has a potential to create a dangerous nuclear arms race in the region. “Now more than ever, it is imperative that Congress have a say in any possible agreement as this Administration pursues a deal with a regime well-known for funding terrorism across the world.” ###
03.25.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), member of the House Committee on the Budget, released the following statement after the passage of H. Con. Res. 27, the FY2016 Budget Resolution. “Today, I voted for the FY16 House Republican budget. This budget helps to reign in Washington's out of control spending, while prioritizing funds to necessary programs. By increasing defense spending, we provide for strong national security to defend our nation and confront threats around the world. Additionally, this budget protects our seniors by eliminating $700 billion in harmful cuts to Medicare. The budget also calls for a simpler, fairer tax code, creating jobs and economic growth. Just like families across the country balance their budgets, Washington should have to balance theirs too. House Republicans' budget balances in less than ten years, a stark contrast to President Obama's budget that never balances. It is evident that our budget is the real solution for the American people. “I would like to congratulate Chairman Price and am grateful for his leadership on the passage of this bill.” ###
03.03.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu addressed a joint meeting of the United States Congress. “I’m grateful that Speaker Boehner invited Prime Minister Netanyahu to address Congress. With a critical deadline upon us, the Prime Minister's visit has never been timelier. The Prime Minister gave a passionate speech outlining the real and dangerous threats posed by the terrorist regime in Tehran. As he said this morning, the deal being negotiated ‘does not block Iran’s path to the bomb; it paves Iran’s path to the bomb.’ Both the deal and a nuclear Iran are significant threats to Israel and the United States, and we must work to protect Israel, our allies, and the United States. I hope that Members on both sides of the aisle will look past the politics and work to ensure that this Administration doesn’t cave and agree to a weak deal.” ###
02.20.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement following reports of the arrest of Mayor Antonio Ledezma and violent attacks on Leopoldo Lopez in prison. "I am profoundly concerned for the safety of pro-democracy leaders in Venezuela as the Maduro regime initiates another brutal crackdown on his courageous opponents. “As the human rights situation is rapidly deteriorating and Venezuela’s prisons swell with Maduro’s political opponents, the international community must demand the immediate release of Mayor Antonio Ledezma and Leopoldo Lopez, and an immediate halt to the harassment of Maduro’s opponents such as Maria Corina Machado, who was removed from her elected position in the National Assembly, charged with crimes based on fabricated evidence, and subjected to numerous violent attacks. “Maduro is desperate to cling to power. The Chavez-Maduro legacy of skyrocketing inflation, shortages, corruption, repression, and intolerance for any opposition has bankrupted Venezuela, corrupted its democratic institutions, and suppressed a once vibrant civil society. Many of Venezuela’s viable, capable leaders are in captivity or persevering under the constant threat of it. The United States cannot tolerate these egregious human rights abuses and the near total abandonment of democratic principles in our hemisphere. The Obama Administration must lead the international community in unequivocally demanding the immediate release of Mayor Ledezma, opposition leader Lopez, and all of Venezuela’s other political prisoners.” ###
02.18.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement on the anniversary of Venezuelan pro-democracy activist and elected official Leopoldo Lopez’s imprisonment by the Venezuelan regime. "It is an international outrage that Venezuelan opposition leader Leopoldo Lopez remains imprisoned simply for expressing opposition to Nicolas Maduro. He is one of many elected officials and pro-democracy activists that have been imprisoned for standing up to Maduro and his Cuban handlers. After one year, the people of Venezuela continue to endure food shortages, corruption, increasing repression, and a weakened economy. Yet rather than moving to solve Venezuela's acute problems, Maduro threatens, intimidates, and punishes those who point out his mounting failures. I call on the Obama administration and the international community to press for Leopoldo Lopez's immediate and unconditional release. There must be no tolerance for political persecution, especially when it occurs within our hemisphere. I proudly stand with him, Marina Corina Machado, and all those who struggle to regain freedom and democracy in their beautiful country." ###
01.21.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after reports of AMIA Special Prosecutor Alberto Nisman’s death: "Those seeking justice for the brutal terrorist attacks in Argentina against the Israeli Embassy in 1992, which killed 29 people, and the AMIA Jewish community center in 1994, which killed 85, have suffered a setback with the death of prosecutor Alberto Nisman. Over several years, Mr. Nisman uncovered direct links between those atrocious acts of terror in Argentina and the terrorist state of Iran. Now it is incumbent upon Argentina to appoint a new prosecutor capable of meeting Mr. Nisman’s courage and tenacity in ensuring that those who perpetuated those vicious acts are punished. "The evidence that Mr. Nisman was about to reveal must be brought to light and aired before the international community. These individuals, whom Mr. Nisman identified as responsible for the worst acts of terrorism in Argentina’s history, must finally be brought to justice. My thoughts and prayers are with Mr. Nisman’s family, and with the families of the embassy and AMIA victims who still seek justice for their lost loved ones.” ###
01.16.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after Rolando Reyes Rabanal and Luis Enrique Labrador were re-arrested. The two men were on President Obama’s list of 53 political prisoners who were released. They were arrested alongside another activist, Miguel Daniel Borroto Vazquez. "According to reports, Cuban activists Rolando Reyes Rabanal and Luis Enrique Labrador, who are on the President's list of 53 political prisoners, were once again arrested while attempting to join a pro-democracy meeting of the Movement for a New Republic. Another opposition activist who was not on the list, Miguel Daniel Borroto Vazquez, was beaten, arrested, and ultimately imprisoned in El Vivac detention center. “The President's flawed and arbitrary list of 53 political prisoners falls far short of a condition that should be non-negotiable: the permanent release of ALL political prisoners. When the Castro regime re-arrests political prisoners after the President "negotiated" their release, it makes a mockery of the entire bad deal. But, as the administration has conceded several times, the President is too invested in his policy of appeasement to change course over the regime's human rights abuses. It remains an utter disgrace that a decent human rights record, and Cuban prisons emptied of innocent men and women, was not part of the President's deal.” ###
01.15.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the Treasury and Commerce Departments announced changes to Cuba regulations. "Today, the U.S. Treasury and Commerce Departments announced their planned changes to the regulations that take effect tomorrow. These changes are a fulfillment of the President’s shameful pledge to do all he can to prop up the Castro regime at the expense of the Cuban people. As the Administration surrenders every ounce of leverage that is within its power to cede and more, the Castro dictatorship continues to oppress the Cuban people and perpetuate its anti-American activities. “Adding insult to injury, the Commerce Department announced, ‘As part of President Obama’s initiative to encourage change in Cuba, Secretary Pritzker plans to visit Cuba to lead commercial diplomacy efforts sometime this year.’ Despite this Administration’s worst intentions, sanctions against the Castro regime remain codified in U.S. law and will remain in force until all political prisoners are released, independent labor unions, press, and political parties are legalized, and free, fair elections are scheduled. Until those conditions are met, the U.S. Commerce Secretary has no business going to Cuba. “It is important to note that the President’s changes to U.S.-Cuba policy are vehemently opposed by every Cuban-American Member of Congress from both chambers, and from both parties. Together, we represent the vast majority of Cuban-Americans in the United States. Yet even now, the President has failed to extend to Cuban-Americans in Congress any measure of the transparency, courtesy, and consultation on Cuba policy that he has so fully provided to the Castro regime over the past eighteen months. In one fell swoop, the President has betrayed the Cuban people and broken his promise to require basic steps toward freedom before normalizing relations with the Castro regime.” ###
01.14.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the passage of H.R. 240. "President Obama has said that any executive action would be 'very difficult to defend legally,' and yet we have seen him use such power not once, but twice in as many months. It is evident that the only permanent and legal way to solve our country’s broken immigration system is for Congress to pass legislation that actually has a chance of becoming law and deals with the issue. As I have done in the past, I am working with my colleagues in the 114th Congress to find a solution that strengthens our borders, respects the rule of law, treats those living in the shadows in a humane manner, modernizes our visa system, and bolsters the economy. It's time for President Obama to respect the powers of the United States Congress as they are written in the laws of our great nation. “I commend Chairmen Rogers and Carter for putting together a substantial base bill that prioritizes frontline security, border patrol, and FEMA, all while properly addressing our national security concerns.” ###
01.09.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the passage of H.R. 3, the Keystone XL Pipeline Act. “The House has once again acted on a bipartisan basis to pass legislation to approve the Keystone XL Pipeline, which will create thousands of jobs, move the United States closer to energy independence and strengthen our national security. This project will contribute billions of dollars to communities across the nation and bolster our economy. Building the pipeline would decrease our dependency on foreign oil, continuing to protect our national security. Though President Obama has threatened to veto this significant piece of legislation once it is passed in the Senate, I urge him to reconsider for the millions of families and communities that will benefit from its construction. “The passage of this bill marks a productive beginning to the 114th Congress, and I look forward to working with my colleagues in the House as we continue to work for the good of the American people.” ###
01.07.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the National Park Service announced the selection of Pedro Ramos as the Superintendent of Everglades and Dry Tortugas National Parks. “For over a decade, Pedro Ramos has been protecting our Southern Florida ecosystem, most recently as Superintendent of Big Cypress National Preserve. I consider Pedro a dear friend and know that he is the best person to lead Everglades and Dry Tortugas National Parks. The announcement of his selection comes at a critical time for the Parks as restoration continues to move forward and strong leadership will be needed to oversee that. Florida’s natural treasures need to be preserved and protected for future generations, and I am confident that Mr. Ramos will ensure that our ecosystem will continue to flourish and that people from all over the world will continue to flock to the Parks. Pedro’s knowledge and love of the Everglades is well known and I couldn’t be happier that he was chosen to be the next Superintendent. As founder and co-chair of the Congressional Everglades Caucus, I look forward to continuing to work with Pedro on how we can both move the Parks and the Everglades forward. ” ###
12.17.2014	WASHINGTON DC - El Congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (R-FL) hizo la siguiente declaración después de que el régimen cubano liberara al estadounidense Alan Gross, que llevaba más de cinco años preso en Cuba. A cambio de la liberación de Gross, el presidente Obama soltará a tres espías cubanos condenados y hará concesiones sin precedentes dentro de un marco de cambios radicales de la política estadounidense hacia Cuba. "Alan Gross nunca debió pasar ni un día en prisión y me alegro que por fin se reunirá con su familia. Sin embargo, la forma en que se logró su liberación es indignante y demuestra que, una vez más, el presidente Obama no duda en apaciguar y ofrecer concesiones a una dictadura brutal que se opone a los intereses de los EEUU en cada oportunidad. "Los tres espías cubanos que soltará el presidente Obama fueron condenados por espionaje en instalaciones militares y uno fue condenado por su papel en el derribo de un avión civil estadounidense en el espacio aéreo internacional que asesinó a tres estadounidenses inocentes y un residente de los EE.UU. Su puesta en libertad anticipada es algo atroz para la justicia. Además, reestablecer relaciones diplomáticas y debilitar aún más las sanciones sólo sirven para legitimar al peor violador de los derechos humanos en nuestro hemisferio y proporcionarle divisas. Las acciones del presidente Obama son una traición inconcebible de los valores fundamentales de Estados Unidos y un profundo insulto al pueblo oprimido de Cuba. "El injusto encarcelamiento y trato inhumano de Alan Gross son muestras de la total depravación del régimen de Castro, así como de la fuerte represión que ha sufrido el pueblo cubano desde hace décadas. La decisión del presidente Obama de claudicar ante el chantaje castrista y abandonar nuestros principios democráticos es un ultraje. Estos cambios en la política hacia Cuba envalentonarán aún más a la dictadura cubana así como a otros dictaduras y organizaciones terroristas antiamericanas." ###
12.17.2014	WASHINGTON D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) offered the following statement after the Cuban regime released U.S. humanitarian aid worker Alan Gross from prison. In return for Gross’ release, President Obama is releasing three convicted Cuban spies, and providing numerous concessions in the form of sweeping changes to U.S.-Cuba policy. "Alan Gross should never have spent one day in prison and we are glad that he will finally be reunited with his family. However, the way that his release was achieved is outrageous and proves that once again, President Obama is the Appeaser-in-Chief who is willing to provide unprecedented concessions to a brutal dictatorship that opposes U.S. interests at every opportunity. “The three remaining Cuban spies who President Obama is releasing were convicted for spying on U.S. military installations, and one was convicted for his role in the shoot-down of an American civilian aircraft in international airspace, which murdered three innocent Americans and one U.S. resident. Their early release is an egregious miscarriage of justice. In addition, providing diplomatic relations and further weakening sanctions attempt to legitimize and provide hard currency to our hemisphere's worst human rights abuser. President Obama's actions are an unconscionable betrayal of America's fundamental values and a profound insult to the oppressed Cuban people. “The unjust imprisonment and inhumane treatment of Alan Gross demonstrates the utter depravity of the Castro regime, as well as the severe repression that has afflicted the Cuban people for decades. President Obama's decision to allow the Castro regime to blackmail the United States and abandon our pro-democracy principles is an outrage. These changes to policy will further embolden the Cuban dictatorship to continue brutalizing and oppressing its own people as well as other Anti-American dictatorship and terrorist organizations” ###
12.11.2014	WASHINGTON —Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the passage of H.R. 83, the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act. “The legislation passed today continues House Republicans commitment to reign in wasteful spending and provides strong oversight over federal agencies. Washington’s out of control spending needs to be addressed, and this legislation does just that. By reducing wasteful spending on programs and agencies like the problematic IRS we are able to fund the areas of government that matter most – like helping our veterans, combating citrus greening, and continuing the much needed restoration of the Everglades. “I want to commend the full committee chairman, Mr. Rogers, and the subcommittee chairs and their staffs for their tireless work and commitment to finalizing this legislation.” Congressman Diaz-Balart, member of the House Appropriations Committee and Vice Chair of its Subcommittee on Financial Services, was successful in getting the following items included in the Appropriations Package: Slashes funding for the problem-ridden IRS by $345.6 million to prohibit waste and abuse like expensive conferences, inappropriate videos, or political targeting of groups $3.1 billion to keep our commitment to Israel Includes additional funding for democracy promotion in Venezuela, Nicaragua, Bolivia, and Ecuador Provides an additional $4.5 million for the Citrus Health Response Program to help address the damaging effects of citrus greening disease Funding for the ongoing South Florida Everglades restoration, including $65.5 million for construction projects and $19.5 million for operation and maintenance $75 million for continued improvements to the aging Herbert Hoover Dike $30 million towards spinal cord injury (SCI) research for competitive grant funding for institutions such as The Miami Project to Cure Paralysis ###
12.10.2014	WASHINGTON— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the House unanimously passed S. 2142, the Venezuela Defense of Human Rights and Civil Society Act of 2014. The bill passed in the Senate earlier this week, is on its way to the President’s desk. “The Venezuelan people continue to suffer through the escalating repression and rampant corruption of the Chavez-Maduro regime. As students and other activists peacefully protest against oppressive acts, food shortages, soaring crime rates, more than 4,000 people have been arrested, 1,000 injured, and dozens killed. The Maduro regime has attempted to silence courageous democracy leaders like the imprisoned opposition leader Leopoldo López and María Corina Machado, who was stripped of her elected position and intimidated with bogus charges. “The House voted in favor of supporting the Venezuelan people earlier this year with passage of H.R. 4587. Tonight, it continues to show solidarity by again voting in favor of strong sanctions and support of the Venezuelan people. Passage of S. 2142 reveals strong bicameral and bipartisan support for the democratic aspirations of the Venezuelan people, and is a powerful condemnation of the Maduro regime’s oppression. I thank Congresswoman Ros-Lehtinen and Senators Rubio and Menendez for their leadership and unwavering dedication to human rights and democracy in our hemisphere. I urge President Obama to join in solidarity with the people of Venezuela by signing this critically important legislation.” On May 28, 2014, the House unanimously passed H.R. 4587, the Venezuelan Human Rights and Democracy Protection Act, authored by Congresswoman Ros-Lehtinen and sponsored by Congressman Diaz-Balart. ###
12.04.2014	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) released the following statement after the passage of H.R. 5759. “The President himself has stated that ‘there’s a limit on what [he] can do.’ We continue to believe that the only legal and permanent solution is for Congress to pass legislation that will strengthen our borders, adhere to the rule of law, offer a humane solution to those living in the shadows, modernize our visa system, and bolster the economy.” ###
12.03.2014	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Mario Díaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the announcement that María Corina Machado, a Venezuelan opposition leader, has been indicted on unfounded charges. María Corina joins other opposition leaders that have been criminally charged by the Maduro regime, including Leopoldo López. “Over the past year, María Corina Machado has led peaceful protests against the Maduro regime, and has been a fierce critic of the increasing repression, inflation, and rampant corruption in Venezuela. As a result, the Maduro regime has attempted to discredit and silence her. She was unjustifiably stripped her of her right to travel internationally, and removed from her elected position in the National Assembly despite overwhelming support from her constituency at the ballot box. Now, Maduro and his cronies have decided to construe ridiculous charges on which to indict her. Maduro’s controlled courts and judges are complete shams. With its actions, the Maduro regime demonstrates it is as corrupt and tyrannical as opposition leaders such as María Corina Machado warn. “The House has demonstrated strong bipartisan support to impose tough sanctions against the Maduro regime, and it’s time for the Senate and the President to do the same. H.R. 4229, the Venezuelan Liberty and Democracy Solidarity Act, was passed in the House more than 8 months ago. I urge my colleagues to bring it to the floor for a vote. “I stand with brave opposition leaders and activists like María Corina Machado and Leopoldo López who are struggling, at great personal risk, against tyranny on behalf of the Venezuelan people. This unjust ruling cannot be allowed to stand. We must continue to pressure Maduro to free opposition leaders like María Corina and Leopoldo, and restore democracy in Venezuela." ###
12.03.2014	WASHINGTON DC - El Congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (R-FL) emitió la siguiente declaración en el quinto aniversario del encarcelamiento del estadounidense, Alan Gross, por el régimen cubano: "Desde hace cinco años, Alan Gross está injustamente detenido en una prisión cubana por el supuesto crimen de ayudar a la comunidad judía de Cuba conectarse al Internet. El artículo 19 de la Declaración Universal de los Derechos Humanos establece que toda persona tiene el derecho de buscar y recibir información de cualquier fuente disponible; sin embargo, la dictadura Castrista sentenció a Alan Gross a quince años de prisión por intentar ayudar al pueblo cubano tener acceso al Internet. Durante este injusto encarcelamiento, la familia del Sr. Gross ha sufrido su ausencia en momentos claves, como en el matrimonio de su hija o durante la batalla de su hija contra el cáncer. El régimen también le privó de asistir al funeral de su madre cuando falleció a principios de año. "Lamentablemente, la dictadura de Castro tiene una larga historia de brutalidad, encarcelando a inocentes y destrozando familias durante más de 55 años de dictadura. El encarcelamiento de Alan Gross es un trágico ejemplo de la depravación moral del régimen de Castro, que no duda en secuestrar a un estadounidense inocente para intentar coaccionar a EEUU. "Mis oraciones están con Alan Gross y su familia en este fatídica fecha. Insto al Presidente Obama que deje sus numerosos esfuerzos de apaciguar al régimen con concesiones y que, por lo contrario, endurezca las sanciones contra la dictadura terrorista de los Castro". ###
12.03.2014	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement on the 5th anniversary of American Alan Gross’ imprisonment by the Cuban regime: "Today marks five years that Alan Gross has been unjustifiably held in a Cuban prison for the so-called ‘crime’ of helping Cuba's Jewish community connect to the internet. Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights provides that everyone has the right to seek and receive information from any available source, yet the Castro regime sentenced Alan Gross to fifteen years in prison for his efforts to help the Cuban people access information. During Mr. Gross’ unjust imprisonment, his family has been forced to confront many significant moments without their husband, father, and son by their side, like his daughter’s marriage or her battle with breast cancer. The regime also deprived him of attending his mother's funeral when she passed away earlier this year. “Sadly, the Castro dictatorship has a long history of brutality, imprisoning the innocent, and tearing apart families during its unrelenting campaign to oppress the Cuban people. Alan Gross' unjustifiable imprisonment is a tragic reminder of the moral depravity of the Castro regime, which has no qualms about attempting to use an innocent American with ailing health as a pawn. “My prayers are with Alan Gross and his family as they endure this grim anniversary and begin another day of separation. I urge President Obama to stop appeasing the Castros’ terrorist regime with countless concessions and instead strengthen sanctions against the brutal dictatorship in Cuba.” ###
11.21.2014	WASHINGTON- El Congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (R-FL) y la Congresista Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) emitieron la siguiente declaración con respeto a la orden ejecutiva del Presidente Obama sobre inmigración: “El Presidente Obama dijo, ‘yo soy el presidente de Estados Unidos, no el emperador de Estados Unidos.’ También declaró que actuando unilateralmente, ‘se ignora la ley de una forma que yo considero muy difícil de defender legalmente.’ Ahora, el Presidente dice que tiene la autoridad para no deportar. La pregunta debe ser obvia: ¿por qué deportó a más de dos millones de personas, dividiendo familias, cuando, según él, podía evitarlo?,” declararon Díaz-Balart y Ros-Lehtinen. “Aunque estamos de acuerdo con algunas de las medidas anunciadas,” continuaron diciendo Díaz-Balart y Ros-Lehtinen, “la orden ejecutiva del Presidente dificulta aún más la aprobación de una reforma justa y razonable del sistema de inmigración de nuestro país. Seguimos creyendo que tenemos que lograr una medida legislativa bipartidista que asegure las fronteras, ofrezca una solución permanente y humanitaria a los indocumentados, respete el estado de derecho, modernice el sistema de visas y ayude a la economía. La orden ejecutiva del Presidente no resolverá ninguno de estos temas.” “Después de las recientes elecciones, el Presidente Obama dijo que deseaba trabajar con el nuevo Congreso. Pero hoy ha demostrado que no tiene la intención de hacerlo. Desafortunadamente, sus decisiones dividirán aún más a nuestro país. Seguimos comprometidos con buscar una solución legislativa bipartidista que logre unir a la mayoría del Congreso y al pueblo de Estados Unidos sobre esta tema tan importante,” concluyeron Diaz-Balart y Ros-Lehtinen. ###
11.21.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) released the following statement concerning President Obama’s executive order on immigration: “As President Obama has stated, ‘I am President of the United States, not the Emperor of the United States.’ He further stated that acting unilaterally is ‘ignoring the law in a way that I believe would be very difficult to defend legally.’ Now, the President says he has the authority to stop deportations. It begs the question – why did President Obama deport more than two million people, dividing families, when according to him, it could have been avoided?” stated Diaz-Balart and Ros-Lehtinen. “While we agree on the merits of some of the announced measures,” continued Diaz-Balart and Ros-Lehtinen, “the President’s executive order makes it more difficult to pass a commonsense solution to our country’s broken immigration system. We continue to believe that we must find a bipartisan, legislative solution to strengthen our borders, offer a permanent and humane solution to those living in the shadows, adhere to the rule of law, modernize our antiquated visa system, and bolster the economy. None of this is accomplished by the President’s executive order.” “Shortly after this year’s election, President Obama said he was willing to work together with the new Congress. He has now clearly demonstrated that he has no intention of doing so. His actions will unfortunately further divide our country. We are committed to finding a bipartisan, legislative solution that will unite a majority of Congress and the American people on this critical issue,” said Diaz-Balart and Ros-Lehtinen. ###
11.20.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the House Republican Steering Committee approved his appointment as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development Appropriations in the 114th Congress: “I am honored to have been chosen to chair the Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development. I look forward to working with House Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers and other committee members to best solve our nation’s transportation and housing issues. It is of utmost importance that we prioritize transportation initiatives that will improve our local communities, while also providing housing solutions for those most in need. I will work tirelessly to uphold the high standards established by former Subcommittee Chairmen, including the Honorable Tom Latham and our very own South Floridian, the Honorable Bill Lehman. “I would like to thank Chairman Rogers for this opportunity and am grateful for his continued friendship and leadership.” ###
11.20.2014	WASHINGTON- El Congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (R-FL) emitió la siguiente declaración hoy tras ser designado Presidente de la Subcomisión de Transporte, Vivienda y Desarrollo Urbano de la Comisión de Asignaciones de la Cámara de Representantes de Estados Unidos: "Es un honor presidir el Subcomisión de Transporte, Vivienda y Desarrollo Urbano. Será un privilegio trabajar con el Presidente de la Comisión de Asignaciones, Hal Rogers, y los otros miembros de la comisión para intentar solucionar los problemas de transporte y de vivienda de nuestra nación. Es de suma importancia dar prioridad a iniciativas para mejorar el transporte en nuestras comunidades, así como para proporcionar soluciones de vivienda para los más necesitados. Trabajaré incansablemente para mantener los niveles de trabajo y ética establecidos por el ex Presidente de la Subcomisión Tom Latham, y la tradición establecida por el ex Congresista Bill Lehman del sur de la Florida, que también sirvió en esta posición. "Le doy las gracias al Presidente de la Comisión Rogers por su liderazgo, por su amistad, y especialmente, por esta extraordinaria oportunidad para servir a nuestra gran nación.” ###
11.06.2014	MIAMI — Today, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) honored a group of local veterans for their service in the United States Armed Forces. The Congressional Veteran Commendation is a nominations-based program designed to recognize the wartime sacrifices and peacetime community involvement of veterans residing in Florida’s 25th Congressional District. The honorees, listed below, will be interviewed and their wartime collections will be added to the Veterans History Project, sponsored by the Library of Congress. Petty Officer Second Class Joseph Randolph Alcala – United States Navy, Miami Major Randolph Boyd Cash – United States Army, Naples Captain Robert Wayne Dorta – United States Army, Naples Sergeant Gregory Moya – United States Marine Corps, Hialeah Gardens Sergeant First Class Edward Wilhite – United States Army, Hialeah Congressman Diaz-Balart with honorees, from left to right: Major Randolph Boyd Cash, Sergeant Gregory Moya, Petty Officer Second Class Joseph Randolph Alcala, Captain Robert Wayne Dorta, and Sergeant First Class Edward Wilhite. ###
10.31.2014	WASHINGTON — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after a spokesperson for the Tahmooressi family confirmed that U.S. Marine Sergeant Andrew Tahmooressi was being released from a Mexican jail after seven months of being wrongfully imprisoned. "I am overjoyed to hear the news of Andrew's release. This Marine Sergeant bravely served his country during two tours of duty in Afghanistan and was unjustly imprisoned for seven months in Mexican jails with deplorable conditions. These last months have been agonizing for his mother Jill and the entire Tahmooressi family. Andrew’s release has been long overdue and it is time that he returned to South Florida so that he may reunite with his family and receive proper treatment to help his battle with PTSD. I am grateful that the work my colleagues and I have done to secure Andrew's release has proven to be successful. It is heroes like Andrew that bring great pride and honor to our beautiful country and I thank him for his service.” Diaz-Balart joined House colleagues in writing numerous letters to both American and Mexican heads of state and officials requesting further information about Tahmooressi’s imprisonment and in search of ways to achieve his release. Diaz-Balart also co-sponsored House Resolution 620, which called for the Marine Sergeant’s immediate release. ###
10.30.2014	WASHINGTON — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after recent press reports that the United States sent a Center for Disease Control (CDC) official to an ALBA (Aliazna Bolivariana para los Pueblos de Nuestra América) meeting in Havana, where the CDC official condoned the Cuban regime’s use of doctors in West Africa. "It is a disgrace that the United States sent a representative to an ALBA meeting in Havana and praised the Cuban dictatorship for sending forced medical labor to Western Africa. “ALBA, the brainchild of Hugo Chavez and Fidel Castro, was created solely to oppose U.S. interests in our hemisphere. It enjoys the support of other anti-American regimes such as Syria and Iran. That the U.S. would send a representative to such a meeting is by itself ludicrous. “Furthermore, there is nothing charitable about the Cuban dictatorship's actions in Africa, and there is no parity between American doctors, who are expertly trained and voluntarily travel to risky destinations on their own terms, and Cuban medics. Cuban doctors are hastily trained, poorly equipped, and forced to work in dangerous conditions while most of their pay is siphoned to the Castro dictatorship. That a U.S. official would condone their overt exploitation is outrageous. The U.S. does not belong at an ALBA meeting, nor should it applaud the Castro regime's use of forced labor under any circumstances." ###
10.24.2014	MIAMI — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in celebration of the completion of the Merritt Pump Station, a critical part of the Picayune Strand Restoration Project. This project is part of the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan (CERP), and the Merritt Pump Station is the first major construction contract to be completed from CERP. “Today’s event marks a major milestone in the restoration of the Everglades. The completion of the Merritt Pump Station is the first major piece of the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan, which will not only benefit Southwest Florida, but will also show the nation that ecosystem restoration is possible. When the Picayune Strand Project is completed, it will fill in canals, remove roads, and return 55,000 acres of land to its natural splendor. But the impact this will have is even greater – over 70,000 acres of uplands and wetlands will be improved as habitat for Florida’s native wildlife. “I would like to thank Colonel Alan Dodd, Commander of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Jacksonville District, Blake Guillory, Executive Director of the Southwest Florida Water Management District, and Eric Draper, Executive Director of the Audubon Florida for their continued leadership in seeing through CERP’s completion. As founder and co-chair of the Everglades Caucus and a member of the Appropriations committee, I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to make sure these restoration projects are a top priority and receive the critical funding they need.” ###
10.17.2014	WASHINGTON — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) released the following statements after the Department of Homeland Security took several steps to help Haitians, Hondurans, and Nicaraguans. Temporary Protected Status was extended through July 5, 2016 to eligible Nicaraguan and Honduran nationals. DHS also announced the implementation of a Haitian Family Reunification Parole Program, to begin in early 2015. "I commend the U.S. Department of Homeland Security for extending Temporary Protected Status to Nicaraguans and Hondurans. As President Bush had done previously, we are recognizing the countless contributions these individuals have made to the United States. I am gratified that the Obama Administration acknowledged their importance by extending TPS. I also commend DHS for following broad bipartisan urging from Members of Congress to initiate the Haitian Family Reunification Parole Program. I have long advocated for a program that will allow Haitians to reunite with family members who are U.S. citizens or legal permanent residents, especially those still suffering from the 2010 earthquake. I am glad that the specific circumstances within Haiti, Honduras, and Nicaragua have been recognized. Through these programs, we can continue to strengthen and enrich our local communities," said Diaz-Balart. "I am pleased that once again the Department of Homeland Security has extended Temporary Protected Status benefits to eligible nationals of Nicaragua and Honduras. With their energy and drive, these individuals have integrated into our communities and continue to contribute to our country's diverse social fabric and economy. I am also encouraged that this Administration has finally created the Haitian Family Reunification Parole Program, modeled after the Cuban Family Reunification Parole Program, which will assist in accelerating Haiti's recovery efforts. This idea has strong bipartisan support because it will bring much needed relief and security to Haiti and help build a brighter future to the Haitian people, who have suffered greatly after the tragic 2010 earthquake," said Ros-Lehtinen. ###
10.17.2014	WASHINGTON —Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after Venezuela was elected to the United Nations Security Council. "It is outrageous that Venezuela was elected to the UN Security Council. The very purposes of the United Nations in protecting human rights and promoting peace among nations are further undermined by Venezuela's position in the Security Council. In addition, the Obama administration's latest failure in diplomacy has diminished the integrity of the UN system and called into question the UN's ability to fulfill its mission. Venezuela's human rights abuses and destabilizing efforts throughout the world should have disqualified it for that key UN post. Regrettably, the Maduro regime's inclusion, and its inevitable opposition to U.S. interests in the Security Council, will only exacerbate the surmounting challenges facing the international community at this time." ###
10.03.2014	WASHINGTON —Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) received the Officer’s Cross of the Order of Merit of Hungary. The award was presented by Mr. Zsolt Németh, the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Hungarian Parliament. It is the highest award given by Hungary to non-Hungarians. “I am truly honored to receive this prestigious honor. I am proud to stand alongside such an inspiring people with such a rich and moving history. In the past several decades, they have demonstrated to the world how, through courage and sheer determination, they have conquered tyranny and transitioned to a vibrant democracy. Today, as the Hungarian people thrive in freedom, they have not forgotten the oppression that continues in too many corners of the globe. I remain forever grateful for their commitment to helping others achieve the liberties and right to self-governance which the Hungarian people so bravely achieved. “I will continue to work to ensure that the United States remains committed to deepening its ties with Hungary, and that our countries continue working together toward our shared cause of freedom and democracy throughout the world. Now, more than ever, our ties with our eastern European allies are essential. I look forward to further deepening my friendship with the Hungarian people, and to bolstering the ever-strengthening bond between the United States and Hungary.” From left: Chairman Zsolt Németh, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart, Mrs. Tia Diaz-Balart, Ambassador György Szapáry, Former Congressman Lincoln Diaz-Balart ###
09.29.2014	WASHINGTON —Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to recent aggression by China against peaceful protesters in Hong Kong. "I stand in complete solidarity with the courageous students, lawyers, teachers, and many others in Hong Kong who are demanding democracy and respect from communist China. Their demand is simple and universal: to have a genuine voice in the powers that govern them. “I am appalled by the aggression perpetrated against these peaceful protesters. They have endured brutality, pepper spray, and tear gas. It is also outrageous that the Politburo has increased its censorship and oppression throughout the PRC in response to these freedom protests. Regrettably, the oppression within Communist China, exemplified by the Tiananmen Square massacre and repression of the Falun Gong, Uyghurs, Christians, political prisoners, and numerous human rights activists, has not yet given way to democratic change. “I urge others in the international community to roundly condemn any further use of force or persecution against the peaceful protesters in Hong Kong, and to join them in their brave pleas for democracy.” ###
09.22.2014	WASHINGTON —Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) withdrew federal water quality standards applicable to Florida. These standards were stringent and overlooked the already meticulous care the state of Florida has for its bodies of water. “After years of legal battles and the EPA overstepping their regulatory authority, they have finally dropped their ludicrous numeric nutrient criteria standards for Florida. Nobody does a better job of regulating our waters and environment than Florida itself, and I am happy to see that the EPA has finally backed off after deciding that the State’s regulations are more than efficient. This is something I have been working on with the state, EPA, and all affected parties for years. I am glad to see it finally concluded with a positive outcome. “Florida is a national leader in enforcing aggressive water quality standards to protect its ecosystem. The Everglades, lakes, rivers, and our beautiful ocean beaches are all vital to our state and Florida will continue to protect them.” ###
09.18.2014	WASHINGTON —Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after Petro Poroshenko, President of Ukraine, addressed a joint meeting of the United States Congress. "It was an honor to have President Poroshenko before the United States Congress. President Poroshenko said during his address this morning 'We are together, we are united,' and that statement rings true. He is a staunch ally of the United States and a symbol of democracy for not only the people of Ukraine, but for those around the world. The United States must stand shoulder to shoulder with the Ukrainian people as they face constant threats to their security and territorial integrity from Russia in their Cold War mentality. Our country must do more to assist our ally as they face aggression. In the words of President Poroshenko, 'The U.S. must lead.' This is a historic moment that I am privileged to have experienced, and I am grateful for that opportunity. "I also want to thank Joe Whitehead for making the trip from Southwest Florida to be my guest at today's address. Joe is a well known and respected member of our community and it was a pleasure having him here." Congressman Diaz-Balart invited Southwest Florida resident Joe Whitehead to be his guest for the address by President Poroshenko. ###
09.15.2014	WASHINGTON— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Conference, and Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Vice Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Conference, released the following statement commemorating Hispanic Heritage Month. Beginning in 1968 under President Lyndon Johnson as Hispanic Heritage Week, it was later expanded to cover a 30-day period in 1988 by President Ronald Reagan. This month honors the diverse influences brought by Hispanics to the United States, and their vital role in American culture and society. This week also celebrates the independence of seven Latin American countries – Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Mexico, and Chile. "I'm proud to join the millions of Hispanics around the U.S. who are celebrating the rich culture, history, and accomplishments of our community. The Hispanic community has made extraordinary contributions to the U.S., and by recognizing those efforts, we are able to bring awareness to younger generations to the countless opportunities afforded to all Americans. From achievements in the arts, courageous service in our armed forces, to the successes of their small businesses, Hispanics have made a significant impact on our country. I also want to honor the seven countries who are celebrating their independence this week, and I look forward to continue working with them to strengthen ties between the U.S. and Latin America,” said Diaz-Balart. “During Hispanic Heritage Month, it’s important to recognize our distinct cultures and celebrate the diversity, which are a part of our great country. The Hispanic community continues to grow and thrive in the United States. They contribute to our economy, to our communities, and to our government. So as we celebrate the Hispanic unity, let’s also make a commitment to re-dedicate ourselves to education and job promotion. Only though economic and educational empowerment can our greater Hispanic community reach its full potential. I’d also like to congratulate the many Latin American countries that during this special time are celebrating their independence, a reminder of the Hispanic and American mosaic that we all live in,” said Ros-Lehtinen. ###
09.09.2014	WASHINGTON— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after reports that the Castro regime has been paid over a billion dollars from the Brazilian government in exchange for trafficking medical doctors. "It is disgraceful and a gross violation of international labor standards that the Castro regime continues to lease human beings to foreign investors and governments. Incredibly, the Castro regime touts its sale of cheap medical labor as a noble enterprise, but it is hardly charity. Despite denouncements of the Cuban regime's use of physicians as slave labor, Brazil has provided over a billion dollars to the Castro dictatorship in exchange for Cuban physicians who have no say in their salaries or working conditions.” "There are thousands of Cuban doctors working against their will in Brazil, and thousands more in places such as Venezuela and Africa. As Dr. Ramona Matos Rodriguez's case revealed earlier this year, the contract between the Castro regime and the government of Brazil provides a lucrative source of revenue to the dictatorship which confiscates as much as almost ninety percent of physicians' wages. As usual, it is the Cuban worker who suffers the consequences of abhorrent working conditions, lack of independent contracts, and abysmal salaries. I commend physicians such as Dr. Matos for the courage of bringing attention to the egregious lack of worker freedoms in Cuba, and urge others to condemn the Castro regime's sale of forced labor." ###
09.03.2014	WASHINGTON— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) sent a letter to Mexican Ambassador to the United States Eduardo Medina Mora Icaza, urging the government of Mexico not to repatriate 13 Cuban nationals who were intercepted at sea while fleeing the Castros’ repression. “Cubans forcibly repatriated to the island often face harsh punitive measures. It is imperative that Cubans who are found fleeing from their island prison are not made to return to the oppression that they risk their lives to escape. I urge the Mexican government to work with us to ensure that these individuals seeking freedom are not forced to face the inevitable repression they will endure if returned to the Castro regime,” said Diaz-Balart. See the letter here. ###
08.25.2014	MIAMI — On Saturday, August 23, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) delivered the keynote address at Nova Southeastern University’s Health Professions Division Commencement. NSU also presented Diaz-Balart with a Doctor of Humane Letters, Honoris Causa during the ceremonies. “It was an honor to join graduates and their families for this momentous occasion. I’d like to thank President Hanbury, Chancellor Lippman, and the entire faculty and staff of Nova Southeastern University for inviting me to speak at Saturday’s commencement. Saturday’s graduates are joining the health care field and many achievements await them in their noble careers. I am extremely grateful to receive this prestigious recognition and I am proud to stand beside the graduates as a fellow NSU shark.” (1) Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart poses with the Doctor of Humane Letters, Honoris Causa, that he received as part of Nova Southeastern University's Health Professions Division Commencement ceremonies alongside Jacqueline Travisano, M.B.A., C.P.A., NSU executive vice president and chief operating officer. (2) Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart delivers the keynote address at NSU's Health Professions Division Commencement ceremonies. (3) Fred Lippman, R.Ph., Ed.D., chancellor of Nova Southeastern University's Health Professions Division; Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart; and George L. Hanbury II, Ph.D., NSU president; join together at NSU's Health Professions Division Commencement. [Photo credit: Nova Southeastern University] ###
08.22.2014	WASHINGTON - Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after reports that the U.S. State Department has granted three high-level Cuban operatives U.S. entry visas. "It is outrageous that the Obama Administration once again has granted U.S. entry visas to high-level Cuban operatives Mariela Castro, Josefina Vidal, and Antonio Castro. The same regime that brutally oppresses activists, violates international sanctions to provide weapons to North Korea, and continues to imprison U.S. humanitarian worker Alan Gross should not be rewarded with U.S. visits. “I strongly urge the administration to abandon its misguided decision to engage with the Cuban people's oppressors. Instead, it should redouble efforts to support civil society, democracy, and Cuba's true leaders who are courageously striving against the dictatorship to achieve liberty and basic human rights for the Cuban people.” ###
08.04.2014	WASHINGTON— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after a recent report on USAID’s democracy programs in Cuba. "Efforts by the State Department and USAID to bring information to the Cuban people, and to find creative ways for the Cuban people to communicate with each other and with the outside world, are precisely the types of activities that the United States must vigorously pursue in closed societies. America's efforts during the Cold War helped to bring democracy to countries once isolated behind the Iron Curtain. Pro-democracy activities must be undertaken with discretion because the most innocuous acts are ‘crimes’ in totalitarian states. It is outrageous that the AP abandoned all pretense of objectivity and published an overtly biased hit piece against a program that enjoys broad bipartisan support. Does it similarly object to pro-democracy efforts in other oppressed societies such as Iran, Belarus, and North Korea? "The United States has a noble history of helping oppressed peoples achieve liberty. It will continue to do so in Cuba and every other corner of the world where freedom is under assault." ###
07.30.2014	WASHINGTON- El Congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (R-FL) hizo las siguientes declaraciones después de que el Departamento de Estado de EE.UU. anunció restricciones de visados ​​contra 24 agentes del régimen de Maduro, responsables de abusos y violaciones de los derechos humanos: "La medida anunciada hoy por el Departamento de Estado de EE.UU. es una respuesta insuficiente a las graves violaciones de derechos humanos en Venezuela. A la vista de cómo el régimen de Maduro sigue agrediendo al pueblo venezolano, con flagrantes abusos que erosionan la democracia y el estado de derecho, la administración de Obama responde con una medida claramente insuficiente, más de un año después de que el mundo fuera testigo de la escalada de los abusos. Semejantes medidas harán poco para convencer al régimen que deje de atacar al pueblo, lanzar cargos penales falsos contra líderes de la oposición y dispararle a y torturar a manifestantes pacíficos. "En su lugar, la Administración debería nombrar a los culpables públicamente y de inmediato, congelando sus activos y revocando las visas a sus familiares, muchos de los cuales viajan a los Estados Unidos con frecuencia para disfrutar de sus lujosas casas, yates y coches. En lugar de seguirle el juego a Maduro y sus compinches, el presidente Obama y su administración deben imponer sanciones que realmente tengan un impacto en el régimen. Insto al Senado a considerar HR 4587, la Ley de Protección de los Derechos Humanos y la Democracia venezolana, que fue aprobada hace más de dos meses en la Cámara. La aprobación e implementación de este proyecto de ley mostrarían que el Presidente y el Senado se unen con la Cámara de Representantes en su solidaridad con el pueblo venezolano, luchando valientemente para recuperar la democracia y la libertad". ###
07.30.2014	WASHINGTON— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the U.S.State Department announced visa restrictions against 24 Maduro regime operatives who are responsible for human rights abuses and violations. “Today's announcement by the U.S. State Department is an insufficient answer to the serious problems in Venezuela. In the face of the Maduro regime’s ongoing egregious human rights violations, eroding democracy and the rule of law, the Obama Administration responds with a weak slap on the wrist more than a year after the world witnessed an increase in these abuses. These weak actions today will do little to change the regime’s affinity for attacking peaceful civilians, launching bogus criminal charges on pro-democracy opposition leaders, and using live ammunition and torture of arrested protestors. “Instead, the Administration should immediately and publicly name and shame these perpetrators, freeze their assets, and revoke the visas of their family members, many of whom travel to the United States frequently to enjoy their lavish homes, yachts, and cars. Instead of continuing to pander to Maduro and his cronies, President Obama and his administration must issue sanctions that will have a real impact to diminish the regime. I urge the Senate to consider H.R. 4587, the Venezuelan Human Rights and Democracy Protection Act, that was passed over two months ago in the House. The passage and implementation of this bill would show that the President and the Senate join the House of Representatives in its solidarity with the Venezuelan people as they struggle to regain democracy and freedom.” ###
07.30.2014	WASHINGTON— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the UN Security Council did not designate any sanction violations against Cuban officials who played a role in the Chong Chon Gang arms shipment. "It is outrageous that the UN Security Council did not hold the Castro dictatorship accountable for violating international sanctions when it aided North Korea with its illegal weapons program. The UN's own Panel of Experts determined that the Cuban regime violated sanctions and purposely attempted to deceive the international community by concealing military material, including MIG-21 jet fighters, under sugar shipments. The UN has failed to enforce its own judgment against the Castro dictatorship. The weapons shipment from Cuba to North Korea was the result of a malevolent partnership between two rogue regimes that were caught colluding to evade sanctions. Regrettably, only half of that partnership is being held accountable for its involvement. The Castro regime is a pariah in the international community that will aid America's enemies and oppose American interests at every turn. The Chong Chon Gang incident deserves swift and severe consequences to both regimes." ###
07.16.2014	WASHINGTON— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the passage of the FY15 Financial Services and General Government Appropriations bill. Diaz-Balart is Vice Chair of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government. “By thoughtfully reducing wasteful spending on ineffective and inadequate agencies like the International Revenue Service, this bill is able to provide funds for programs that encourage job growth and help small businesses, like the Small Business Administration. Scandal after scandal continues to emerge from the IRS, and we must make sure that the agency’s abuse and political targeting practices are finally put to an end. The bill also includes a provision that would put the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) under the jurisdiction of the Appropriations Committee so that Congress and the American people can have oversight over the agency instead of allowing it to frivolously spend money. A provision included to eliminate surplus properties and consolidate space will reduce the General Services Administration’s (GSA) unnecessary and unused properties. Requiring agencies like the IRS, the CFPB, and the GSA to extensively record and report their spending allows for diligent oversight to avoid mismanagement and squandering by corrupt senior officials. “I congratulate Chairman Crenshaw on his leadership in this bill’s passage and thank him for working with me on the many priorities in this bill that will greatly impact our constituents in Florida.” ###
07.15.2014	WASHINGTON— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after returning from a trip to Central America. Diaz-Balart is a member of Speaker Boehner’s Unaccompanied Minors Working Group, chaired by Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX). "This weekend, I had the opportunity to visit Guatemala and Honduras, two countries in Central America from where an influx of the unaccompanied minors are entering the United States. The situation at the border is very concerning, as many children are crossing the border alone, risking their lives on a dangerous journey. It also shows another example of President Obama’s failed policies.” “During the trip, we had the opportunity to meet with Guatemalan President Otto Perez Molina and Honduran President Juan Orlando Hernandez. We also had the opportunity to witness the work being doing in a community outreach center in Honduras that focuses on preventing children from migrating to the United States. These meetings and site visits were helpful as we continue to gather more information on the situation to make an assessment on how to best handle it. “I am grateful to Chairwoman Granger for her leadership. I look forward to continue working with her and the rest of the working group to find the right solution to the humanitarian crisis on the border."
07.13.2014	WASHINGTON— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement honoring the victims of the “13 de Marzo” attack on its 20th anniversary. "Today marks twenty years since Castro’s thugs mercilessly attacked Cubans aboard the ‘13 de Marzo’ vessel as they were attempting to escape their island prison. In the dead of night in the dark sea, regime-owned vessels repeatedly rammed the defenseless tugboat until it broke apart and sank. With the survivors in the water, the perpetrators attempted to drown them with their boats and powerful water cannons. This evil act resulted in the massacre of innocent Cubans, including children, and revealed the utter depravity of the Castro dictatorship once again. “On this day, we honor the lives of the victims and mourn their lost days on earth. My prayers are with their families on this solemn day."
07.10.2014	WASHINGTON- El Congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (R-FL) emitió la siguiente declaración durante una conferencia de prensa sobre la reforma migratoria. “Desde los años 2009 y 2010, junto a un grupo bipartidista de colegas, he trabajado para lograr una reforma migratoria. Lamentablemente durante esos años, el liderazgo Demócrata se negó a considerar el proyecto de ley. "Durante el último año y medio, he trabajado sin parar con colegas de ambos partidos para redactar una legislación que obtendría una mayoría de los Republicanos y un numero de Demócratas dispuestos a dejar a un lado la política y lograr una reforma migratoria. “En particular, quiero agradecer a Luis Gutiérrez toda su ayuda, su voluntad de, cuando es necesario, enfrentar tanto a los Republicanos como a los Demócratas y al Presidente. “Después de mucho trabajo y múltiples borradores, finalmente redactamos legislación que podría obtener el apoyo bipartidista necesario. Aprendimos las lecciones de la legislación de amnistía del 1986 y del proyecto de ley del Senado del año pasado para no repetir sus errores. “Debido a la extraordinaria falta de confianza en este Presidente, trabajé para garantizar que la legislación verificaría independientemente y mantendría a éste y a futuros presidentes responsables de finalmente asegurar las fronteras. El proyecto de ley es una solución de sentido común para los indocumentados que reconoce que no vamos a gastar decenas de miles de millones de dólares reuniendo y deportando a millones de trabajadores indocumentados que han estado aquí por muchos años. Mi solución incluía un proceso para que los que vinieron aquí ilegalmente pudieran obtener su estatus, pudieran obtener su derecho a permanecer aquí y demostrar su compromiso con Estados Unidos. Es un enfoque eficiente y eficaz, que es bueno para la economía de Estados Unidos y justo también para las personas que vinieron aquí legalmente. “Estoy muy agradecido por la colaboración, el asesoramiento y la confianza que he recibido de muchos de mis colegas, especialmente del Presidente de la Cámara John Boehner y su personal. También quiero agradecer a Paul Ryan su orientación y liderazgo, y otros Republicanos de la Cámara, como mi hermana en la lucha, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, por sus aportes constructivos. “A pesar de nuestros mejores esfuerzos, hoy fui informado por el liderazgo Republicano que no tienen intención de llevar este proyecto de ley al pleno de la Cámara este año. “Es decepcionante y altamente lamentable, porque tenemos una oportunidad única para asegurar las fronteras, arreglar nuestro sistema migratorio y fortalecer a nuestra economía. “Este sistema no va a arreglarse por sí solo, y retrasar una solución de sentido común sólo va a empeorar las cosas, como es evidente por lo que está pasando actualmente con la crisis en la frontera del sur. “Es altamente irresponsable no tratar el tema. Sé que es difícil, especialmente cuando hay un presidente en que no confían el pueblo o el Congreso de Estados Unidos, y que no ha hecho cumplir las leyes, a pesar de sus alegaciones contrarias. Pero nosotros fuimos enviados aquí por el pueblo americano precisamente para hacer frente a los problemas difíciles, no para tomar el camino más fácil. “Al bloquear la reforma, bien cuando Nancy Pelosi fue Presidenta de la Cámara, o ahora, estamos abdicando nuestro deber. Sobre todo cuando tenemos a un Presidente que está dispuesto a actuar unilateralmente mediante acción ejecutiva que él mismo ha dicho que es legalmente cuestionable y que no proporcionará una solución a largo plazo para nuestro sistema de inmigración, y que creo que incluso podría empeorar la situación. “Espero que en un futuro próximo el liderazgo permita que mi legislación llegue al Pleno de la Cámara. Yo no me rendiré hasta que no arreglamos el sistema de inmigración que todos reconocen que sencillamente no funciona. “Quiero que este bien claro que estoy preparado para proceder en cualquier momento.” ###
07.10.2014	WASHINGTON— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) made the following remarks during a press conference on immigration reform. “From 2009-2010, I had been working with a group of bipartisan colleagues to draft immigration reform legislation. Unfortunately, Democratic Leadership refused to consider the bill when they had the majority. During the last year and a half, I have been working non-stop with colleagues on both sides of the aisle to draft legislation that would obtain a majority of the Republicans and a number of the Democrats who are willing to put politics aside and get immigration reform done. “In particular, I want to thank Luis Gutierrez for all his help, for his willingness, when necessary, to take on Republicans, Democrats, and the President. “After lots of work and revisions, we finally drafted legislation that could garner the necessary bipartisan support. We learned our lessons from the 1986 amnesty bill and last year’s Senate bill, and did not repeat their mistakes. Due to the extraordinary lack of trust in this President, I worked to ensure that the legislation would independently verify and hold this and future presidents accountable for finally securing the borders. The bill is a commonsense solution to illegal immigration that recognizes we are not going to spend tens of billions of dollars to roundup and deport millions of undocumented workers who have been here for many years. My solution would require those who came here illegally to earn legal status, earn their right to remain here, and demonstrate their commitment to the United States. It is an efficient and effective approach that is good for the American economy and fair to the people who came here legally. “I am grateful for the cooperation, advice, and trust I received from so many of my colleagues, specifically Speaker Boehner and his staff. I also want to thank Paul Ryan for his guidance, leadership, and friendship, and countless other House Republicans, like my legislative sister Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, for their constructive input on this issue. “Despite our best efforts, today I was informed by the Republican leadership that they have no intention to bring this bill to the floor this year. It is disappointing and highly unfortunate, because we have a unique opportunity to secure the borders, fix our broken immigration system, and strengthen our economy. “This system is not going to fix itself, and delaying a commonsense solution is only going to make matters worse as is evident by what is going on today with the crisis on the southern border. “It is highly irresponsible not to deal with the issue. I know it is difficult, especially when you have a President that failed to build the trust of the American people or the U.S. Congress, and who has done little to enforce current law despite his assertions to the contrary. But we were sent here by the American people precisely to tackle difficult issues and not to take the easy way out. “By blocking reform, whether it was when Nancy Pelosi was Speaker or now, we are in effect abdicating our duty. Particularly when we have a President that is willing to unilaterally act through executive action, that he himself has said is legally circumspect, will not provide a long-term solution to our immigration system, and I believe could even make it worse. “I hope that in the near future leadership will reconsider and allow my legislation to come to the floor. I for one am not willing to give up and will continue to work until we can finally fix a broken immigration system that everyone recognizes is dysfunctional. “I want to make it clear that I am ready to proceed at any time.” ###
07.05.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in recognition of Venezuela’s Independence Day. "Today, I join the people of Venezuela in celebrating more than two hundred years of independence from Spain. Regrettably, that hard-won independence has been squandered during the Chavez-Maduro years by authoritarian rule, corruption, soaring inflation, shortages, blackouts, and high crime rates. On this Venezuelan Independence Day, we look forward to a time when the Venezuelan people may enjoy the blessings of freedom, prosperity, and honest government.” ###
07.02.2014	WASHINGTON -- Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to the news of the murder of Gilad Shaar, Naftali Frankel, and Eyal Yifrach, three Israeli teens who were kidnapped last month as they were trying to get home from school. “The senseless murder of these innocent, unarmed boys, including an American citizen, cannot go unpunished and the cowardly perpetrators who committed these heinous acts should be brought to justice immediately. I join the Israeli people in their mourning and am praying for the families and friends of Gilad, Naftali, and Eyal during this difficult time. The United States Congress will continue to support our close ally, Israel, will help in any way we can to bring those responsible to justice.” ###
06.24.2014	WASHINGTON, DC- El Congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (R-FL) emitió la siguiente declaración después de que el Presidente de la Cámara de Representante, John Boehner (R-OH), nombró a Díaz-Balart al grupo de trabajo para tratar sobre la llegada de menores no acompañados que cruzan la frontera entre EE.UU. y México. "La situación actual en la frontera es una grave crisis humanitaria que requiere atención urgente. Tenemos que asegurarnos que los menores estén sanos y salvos a la vez que acatemos estrictamente las leyes de esta gran nación. "Agradezco a Boehner el nombramiento a este grupo y espero con interés la oportunidad de trabajar con mis colegas para encontrar la mejor solución. Una vez más, la Administración no ha sabido ejercer el liderazgo y, por lo tanto, al Congreso le corresponde actuar”. ###
06.24.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the approval of the fiscal year 2015 State and Foreign Operations Appropriations bill. “In an always changing and an increasingly dangerous world, the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations bill promotes, protects, and enhances our national security at home and abroad. This bill fully funds our security commitments to our allies Israel and Jordan, and rejects the Administration’s misguided request to cut security, counternarcotics, and law enforcement efforts in our hemisphere. It addresses the influx of unaccompanied minors crossing the U.S.-Mexico border. It also maintains assistance to those suffering under totalitarian Cuba, and increases democracy promotion programs where democracy has suffered setbacks, including to Venezuela, Nicaragua, Ecuador, and Bolivia. On the global health front, the bill supports long-standing Congressional priorities, including combating and treating HIV/AIDs, TB, and malaria, and refugee assistance programs to deal with the ongoing crises. “I am grateful to Chairwoman Granger for her steadfast leadership on this bill’s passage and congratulate her on once again moving this bill through committee.” ###
06.24.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after House Speaker John Boehner (R-OH) appointed Diaz-Balart to the working group that will address the influx of unaccompanied minors crossing the U.S.-Mexico border. "The current situation happening at the border is a serious humanitarian crisis that needs urgent attention. We must find a humane solution to make sure these minors are both safe and healthy, while strictly adhering to the laws of this great nation. “I thank Speaker Boehner for appointing me to this group and I look forward to working with my colleagues so that we may find the best solution. Once again, the Administration has failed to lead and therefore, Congress must do its part.” ###
06.19.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to a recent report on healthcare premium increases by the Manhattan Institute for Policy Research. “The report by the Manhattan Institute proves what many American families feared would happen under Obamacare. Not only are you unable to keep your healthcare plans and doctors of choice, but you are seeing your premiums skyrocket. Whether it’s a 25% increase for a 40 year old woman, or a 65% for a 27 year old man, the President’s healthcare plan is hurting the wallets of hardworking American taxpayers. I will continue to work for Floridians’ access to the care they need, from the doctors they choose, at a price they can afford.” Per the Manhattan Institute: Broward County 27 year old man – 48% increase 40 year old man – 27% increase 64 year old man – 18% increase 27 year old woman – 5% increase 40 year old woman – 13% increase 64 year old woman – 29% increase Collier County 27 year old man – 72% increase 40 year old man – 45% increase 64 year old man – 31% increase 27 year old woman – 34% increase 40 year old woman – 28% increase 64 year old woman – 47% increase Hendry County 27 year old man – 88% increase 40 year old man – 59% increase 64 year old man – 80% increase 27 year old woman – 52% increase 40 year old woman – 39% increase 64 year old woman – 61% increase Miami Dade County 27 year old man – 59% increase 40 year old man – 46% increase 64 year old man – 27% increase 27 year old woman – 29% increase 40 year old woman – 28% increase 64 year old woman – 64% increase Florida 27 year old man – 65% increase 40 year old man – 44% increase 64 year old man – 31% increase 27 year old woman – 31% increase 40 year old woman – 25% increase 64 year old woman – 48% increase ###
06.18.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) offered the following statement regarding the recently released FIU Cuba poll. "The methodology of the newest FIU poll was so highly flawed that the results do not merit to be taken seriously. As an example, according to the pollster, 62% of respondents are U.S. citizens, but 90% are registered voters, giving a clear indication of manipulated numbers. In the polls that matter - elections - Cuban-Americans have repeatedly expressed their opposition to unilaterally weakening sanctions against the Castro dictatorship until there is a genuine democratic transition on the island. Under U.S. law, sanctions will end once political prisoners are released, press, political parties and independent labor unions are legalized, and free, fair elections are scheduled. Until then, we will continue our solidarity with the Cuban people by refusing any financial assistance to their oppressors, regardless of any number of fake polls paid for by those who want to do business with the terrorist regime." ###
06.18.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) announced that he has hired Enrique Padron to serve as a Congressional Aide in the Southwest Florida District Office. "Enrique has been a community leader for many years in Southwest Florida, and he will be a great asset to our team. His knowledge and experience in the area will be helpful as he continues to strengthen relationships with our constituents. I am excited to have Enrique on our staff and I look forward to working with him to better serve Florida’s 25th congressional district.” Padron previously served as the CEO and President of Viva Florida Magazine/Mi Voz Radio 770 AM, where he was responsible for general operations, sales, and hosting a radio program that focused on local and political issues. He also has been involved as an activist and community director for numerous organizations in the state of Florida. ###
06.16.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the most recent arrest of pro-democracy activist Jorge Luis Garcia Perez “Antunez” and his wife Yris Perez. "The Castro regime has once again brutally arrested pro-democracy activist, Jorge Luis Garcia Perez ‘Antunez,’ and his wife and fellow activist, Yris Perez. “Repression in Cuba has increased exponentially despite repeated attempts from the Obama Administration to appease the regime with relaxed sanctions and travel visas to Castro operatives. With the arrests of these and other courageous pro-democracy activists, and the unjustifiable imprisonment of U.S. aid worker Alan Gross, we must tighten sanctions against the Castro dictatorship by eliminating so-called ‘people-to-people’ travel, strictly enforcing current sanctions with maximum penalties, and prohibiting visas to those who help the regime inflict human rights abuses. “I am calling on other pro-democracy advocates, human rights organizations, and our friends in the international community to condemn these arrests and call for immediate consequences to the brutal Castro regime. We cannot remain silent in the face of such egregious human rights abuses.” Jorge Luis Garcia Perez “Antunez” and his wife, Yris Perez. ###
06.16.2014	MIAMI – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) released the following statement after meeting with senior officials from the Miami VA Healthcare System. “The reports that numerous Veterans Affairs clinics have cooked the books and systematically disregarded the healthcare needs of our veterans is a disgrace and a disservice to the great men and women who have served this country. We called this meeting today with the Miami VA to discuss the personal reports of veterans in South Florida and to see what is being done to correct these failures. It is imperative that the Miami VA quickly address the delays and incompetence that have plagued the hospital for years. I will do everything I can to make sure the VA is held accountable for their actions and that they work to fix these issues moving forward,” said Diaz-Balart. “The Miami VA is in desperate need of reform. The tragic tales of negligence on the part of the VA staff and administration have caused many of us to question the processes and procedures used, in addition to what appears to be non-existent discipline. No veteran or patient of any hospital or rehab facility should be faced with an indifferent staff or incompetent administration. Those who sacrificed so much for our nation should be treated with no less than the respect, dignity, and excellent medical care that they have earned and deserve,” said Ros-Lehtinen. ###
05.28.2014	WASHINGTON, DC- El Congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (R-FL) emitió la siguiente declaración después de la aprobación de la HR 4587, la Ley de Protección de los Derechos Humanos y la Democracia en Venezuela. “Durante los últimos 15 años, el pueblo de Venezuela ha sufrido la corrupción y brutalidad de la dictadura chavez-maduro, culminando en serios actos de violencia y agresión hacia estudiantes y otros ciudadanos durante los últimos tres meses. Los estudiantes y ciudadanos han estado protestando pacíficamente en contra de la corrupción, la escasez de alimentos, el alza de las tasas de delincuencia y la alarmante represión, las cuales se han agravado durante el régimen de Maduro. Ha habido más de 3.000 detenidos, cientos de heridos y más de 40 muertos. Es hora de poner fin a la opresión, la violencia y la intimidación política, así como exigir que estos violadores de los derechos humanos rindan cuentas por sus acciones. Los cómplices de estos actos deben ser señalados y condenados y deben afrontar las consecuencias de sus acciones. “Con la aprobación de este proyecto de ley, la Cámara de Representantes de EE.UU se solidariza con el pueblo venezolano en su lucha para recuperar la democracia y la libertad. Insto al Senado a enviar rápidamente este proyecto de ley al despacho del Presidente.” ###
05.28.2014	WASHINGTON, DC— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the passage of H.R. 4587, the Venezuelan Human Rights and Democracy Protection Act. “For the past 15 years, the people of Venezuela have experienced the corruption and brutality of the Chavez-Maduro dictatorship, and within the last 3 months, that has culminated in serious acts of violence and aggression towards students and others. These students and their supporters were peacefully protesting the corruption, food shortages, soaring crime rates, and alarming repression that have worsened during Maduro’s rule. In return, they have seen more than 3,000 people arrested, hundreds injured, and more than 40 people killed. It is time to put an end to the oppression, violence, and political intimidation and hold these human rights abusers accountable. Those complicit with egregious acts of human rights violations must be named and shamed, and should face the consequences of their actions. “With the passage of this bill, the United States House of Representatives is standing in solidarity with the Venezuelan people as they struggle to regain democracy and freedom from the Maduro regime. I urge the Senate to move this bill quickly to the President’s desk.” ###
05.23.2014	WASHINGTON, DC— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) encourages families and individuals to prepare for Hurricane Season. Diaz-Balart promotes National Hurricane Preparedness Week, which begins on May 25th and runs through May 31st. Hurricane Season starts next Sunday, June 1st. “With the 2014 Hurricane Season upon us, Florida and other coastal states in the U.S. must begin to prepare for the possibility of these natural disasters. I encourage residents to take advantage of National Hurricane Preparedness Week to protect their homes and their families for the upcoming season. We can reduce the effects that hurricanes have on our communities if we take the right steps.” The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) kicked off their annual National Hurricane Preparedness Week to create awareness leading up to the start of the season. More information and ideas can be found at www.ready.gov/hurricanes. Information on the different types of severe weather such as tornadoes, severe thunderstorms, and flooding is available at www.weather.gov and www.ready.gov/hurricanes or the Spanish-language web site www.listo.gov. ###
05.21.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the passage of H.R. 4031, the Veterans Affairs Management Accountability Act. Diaz-Balart was an original co-sponsor of the bill. “The recent horror stories that we’ve heard of abuse of power and mismanagement by certain individuals at the VA are absolutely unacceptable. H.R. 4031 gives the Secretary of the VA additional authority in order to hold senior staff accountable for their failures to provide the standard of care our Veterans deserve. The best and bravest of our country that selflessly risked their lives to protect our freedom must be treated with the highest quality of care, and any person who stands in the way of that care must be held accountable. We owe it to the courageous men and women who served our country to do everything we can to prevent these issues from happening again.” ###
05.20.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the passage of a series of five bills that combat human trafficking. “Human trafficking is an increasing problem here in the United States and abroad. As a cosponsor of four of the bills passed today, I am committed to ending this terrible plague and am encouraged by the support they received in the House. Last week, I had the opportunity to host a summit in Naples, inviting members of the Southern Florida community to learn from local experts about the effects that this egregious crime has on our state. We all have a responsibility to raise awareness on this issue and do our best to protect victims of human trafficking. I will continue to do everything in my power to protect the most vulnerable members of our society.” The following bills were passed in the House today to combat human trafficking: H.R. 3530, the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act: Boosts support and protection for domestic human trafficking victims. H.R. 3610, the Stop Exploitation Through Trafficking Act: Provides incentives to states to adopt safe harbor laws that treat trafficked minors as victims, rather than as criminals or delinquents. H.R. 4225, the Stop Advertising Victims of Exploitation (SAVE) Act: Criminalizes those who knowingly advertise for the commercial exploitation of minors and trafficking victims. H.R. 4058, the Preventing Sex Trafficking and Improving Opportunities for Youth in Foster Care Act: Requires States to take steps to prevent, identify, and address sex trafficking of youth in foster care. H.R. 4573, the International Megan’s Law to Prevent Demand for Child Sex Trafficking: Requires the Department of Homeland Security to undertake reasonable efforts to notify child-sex offenders whose impending travel has been noticed to their country or countries of destination.
05.20.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the passage of H.R. 3080, the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014. “Today’s passage of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act is an achievement for Florida, its waterways, ports, and ecosystem. H.R. 3080 restores and protects natural treasures like Everglades National Park, while creating jobs, cutting red tape, strengthening our nation’s infrastructure, and improving America’s competitiveness in the global economy. Florida’s waterways and ports are responsible for over 119,000 jobs and contribute $23.2 billion to the state’s economy, making the projects specific to our state vital. WRRDA includes funding for the continuation of the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan in Western Broward and Hendry Counties and directs the Army Corps to expedite the completion of the Port Everglades feasibility study. “I’d like to once again thank Chairman Shuster for his leadership on securing a successful conference report and getting this bill passed. I greatly appreciate his willingness to work with me on issues crucial to Florida and the 25th district.” Among the key projects authorized in this bill, the following are specific to Southern Florida: Florida Central and Southern Florida Project, Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan, Caloosahatchee River (C-43) West Basin Storage Project, Hendry County Central and Southern Florida Project, Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan, C-111 Spreader Canal Western Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan, Biscayne Bay Coastal Wetland, Florida Central and Southern Florida Project, Broward County Water Preserve
05.14.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after Sal Russo, the co-founder of Tea Party Express, publicly supported immigration reform. “It is clear that conservatives understand that we cannot continue to have a system with porous borders that hurts our economy and threatens our national security interests. The American people, and conservatives in particular, are fed up with Washington’s inaction. I’m pleased with Mr. Russo’s support on this issue, and today’s announcement is one more demonstration that we must strengthen our borders, respect the rule of law, modernize our antiquated visa system, and bolster the economy.” ###
05.05.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) recognized Doral Academy Charter High School senior Gaia Rodriguez for her winning piece in the 2014 Congressional Art Competition in Florida’s 25th congressional district. Her piece, titled “Haggard,” was chosen out of 141 entries submitted from 18 participating schools. A viewing reception for the submitted artwork was held on Friday, May 2nd at Mary Collins Community Center in Miami Lakes, Florida. The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 as a way to recognize and encourage the artistic talent of the country’s youth. Since then, over 650,000 high school students have participated nationwide. Each spring a winner is selected from each Congressional District in the U.S. ###
05.02.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to the passage of HB 851, the Postsecondary Student Tuition bill, by the Florida State Legislature. “I commend and congratulate the Florida Legislature for passing this important piece of legislation. One of the things that defines the United States is that we are a meritocracy – we judge people not by the actions of their relatives, but by their individual merits. This bill allows young men and women who have done everything society has asked of them to seek a degree of higher education and reach their God-given potential. I thank Speaker Weatherford, Senator Latvala, Representative Nuñez, Governor Scott, and the entire South Florida State Legislature delegation for their leadership on this issue.” ###
04.13.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to the arrest of Ivan Fernandez Depestre. “The international community must condemn the savage beating of political prisoner Ivan Fernandez Depestre. He is currently serving a three-year prison term and increasingly abusive treatment at the hands of Castro's thugs, simply for expressing his opposition to the Castro dictatorship’s inhumanity. Fernandez Depestre has begun a hunger strike in further protest of the abuse that he and other prisoners suffer. "I urge pro-democracy activists, human rights organizations, and those who oppose tyranny to demand that Fernandez Depestre be released immediately and provided proper medical attention. The egregious human rights violations perpetrated by the Castro dictatorship against pro-democracy activists such as Fernandez Depestre must end.” Ivan Fernandez Depestre, a pro-democracy activist and political prisoner, was beaten and placed in a tiny prison cell in Guamajal Prison in Santa Clara for protesting inhumane prison conditions and the savage beatings of other prisoners. He was originally imprisoned last year for attending an event remembering Cuban hero Frank Pais. Amnesty International has designated him a prisoner of conscience. ###
04.07.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to a letter he received from Venezuelan opposition leader Maria Corina Machado. “The heartfelt note my office received from Maria Corina is a simple reminder as to why I continue to speak out against the brutality of the Maduro regime. I am honored to be one of many speaking out on behalf of the Venezuelan people. Until all Venezuelans are free of a corrupt government, have access to basic household supplies, food, and most importantly, their freedom of speech and assembly, we must all continue to join these brave folks who are peacefully protesting, yet are being aggressively attacked, injured, and killed. I stand by courageous leaders like Maria Corina, Leopoldo Lopez, and others who are risking their lives daily. I will do everything I can for the Venezuelan people as they struggle to regain democracy.” The letter from Machado thanked Congressman Diaz-Balart and his staff for their efforts to help the Venezuelan community. ###
03.31.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after an announcement by U.S. Customs and Border Protection regarding additional staff allocations as appropriated by the FY 2014 omnibus. “South Florida’s ports of entry are a vital part of our community’s economic engine. I’m thrilled that CBP announced additional CBP officers at Miami International Airport and Fort Lauderdale Airport, which will help streamline security and customs lines, making traveling through our airports easier and more efficient for both tourists and business travelers. Long wait times have been a huge burden on airport staff and travelers. Since joining the Appropriations Committee, I’ve worked tirelessly to increase much needed staffing at CBP. “Earlier this year, I helped secure a victory for Florida’s ports when Congress funded an additional 2,000 CBP officers, and last year MIA was only one of five ports nationwide to be selected to participate in a public-private partnership program to hire additional CBP officers. “Chairman Rogers of the Appropriations Committee and Chairman Carter of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee have been crucial to getting this issue resolved, and I’m grateful that today’s announcement will result in a reduction of the cumbersome wait times.” Congressman Diaz-Balart has sent several letters sent to the DHS Secretary (see here and here) in support of Miami-Dade County’s request for additional staff, in addition to having met with numerous federal, state, and local officials on the issue. ###
03.19.2014	WASHINGTON —Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), an original cosponsor of H.R. 4229, the Venezuelan Liberty and Democratic Solidarity Act, released the following statement after it was introduced by Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL). “Maduro and his cronies have unleashed a wave of severe oppression and frequent acts of violence against the Venezuelan people as they have peacefully taken to the streets to protest their legitimate grievances against their government. The brave Venezuelan people have been protesting rampant corruption, rising inflation rates, soaring unemployment, shortages of everyday products, increasing crime rates, and the erosion of human rights and political dissent. It is time for the United States to hold Maduro and his complicit thugs accountable for their gross violation of human rights, repression, and media censorship. This legislation demands a variety of substantial actions that names and shames these cowardly perpetrators. H.R. 4229 reaffirms Congress’ solidarity with the people of Venezuela as they struggle to seek a better future.” ###
03.12.2014	WASHINGTON —Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) questioned Secretary of State John Kerry during a hearing of the State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee of the House Appropriations Committee on the Administration’s inaction towards the ongoing problem in Venezuela. “Today, I asked Secretary Kerry in a hearing about the Administration placing sanctions on Maduro’s regime in response to their oppressive and criminal acts towards the Venezuelan people. Unfortunately, he did not give me a clear answer with specifics as to what the Administration will do. As I mentioned in the hearing, I firmly believe the United States must deny and revoke visas, freeze assets, prohibit financial transactions, and issue other such sanctions to the perpetrators of the violence and human rights violations in Venezuela. The President can unilaterally and immediately enact these sanctions using his own pen. The United States must name and shame them.” To watch Kerry’s testimony to Diaz-Balart’s questions, click here. ###
03.04.2014	WASHINGTON — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the passage of H.Res 488, a resolution that he is an original cosponsor of and that was introduced by Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) in support of the Venezuelan people. “The people of Venezuela continue to suffer the oppressive and brutal acts of the Maduro regime. Freedom of speech, a government free of corruption, democracy, and basic human rights – these are all things that people are entitled to, yet Venezuelans find themselves risking their lives in order to obtain them. This resolution reaffirms that the United States Congress stands with the heroic people of Venezuela, and against the tyranny that enchains them.” To read the full text of the resolution, please click here. ###
03.04.2014	WASHINGTON — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the passage of H.R. 3370, The Homeowner Flood Insurance Act of 2014: “Today’s vote helps address the harmful and unintended consequences of the Biggert-Waters bill. It applies a commonsense approach, including lasting relief for homeowners while maintaining necessary reforms to provide long-term solvency to the flood insurance program. With passage of this bill, Floridians can rest a little easier knowing that they will be protected from immediate and drastic premium hikes. This bill will help stabilize our real estate market, while also protecting the pockets of hardworking American taxpayers. I would like to thank Majority Leader Cantor for recognizing the need for a vote on this important issue.” Diaz-Balart has been working with Representatives Grimm, Cassidy, Scalise, Nugent, Capito, Bilirakis, Palazzo, LoBiondo, Buchanan and Ross to find a solution to resolve the unintended consequences of Biggert-Waters. ###
02.27.2014	WASHINGTON — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement on the passing of Dr. Huber Matos. “Today, we lost a dedicated advocate of freedom for the Cuban people. “Dr. Huber Matos, who originally was part of Castro’s so-called ‘revolution,’ quickly grew disillusioned with the direction of the Castro regime. He was subsequently imprisoned by the Cuban dictator for 20 years. While imprisoned, he engaged in hunger strikes and other protests, and endured solitary confinement, death threats, and torture. “Once leaving Cuba, Dr. Matos worked with international contacts to promote Cuban liberty. Among his many philanthropic activities, he founded Cuba Independiente y Democrática and the Huber Matos Foundation for Democracy with the goal of fostering democracy and human rights in Latin America, and especially Cuba. “I am deeply saddened that Dr. Matos did not see freedom realized in Cuba during his lifetime, and send my deepest condolences to his family.” ###
02.26.2014	WASHINGTON - El congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (R -FL) y otras colegas patrocinaron la resolución H.Res. 488 de la Cámara de Representantes para apoyar al valiente pueblo venezolano. "Durante más de dos semanas el pueblo de Venezuela ha protestado pacíficamente en contra de los constantes ataques a la democracia y a los derechos humanos, la corrupción, el incremento de la criminalidad, la escasez de alimentos, y el desempleo. En consecuencia, han sido víctimas de gravísimos actos de violencia y agresiones por de la dictadura de Maduro. Los derechos más básicos están siendo violados. Esta resolución reafirma el compromiso del Congreso de EE.UU con los que simplemente quieren vivir libres de la opresión, la violencia y la intimidación política. Los venezolanos deben saber que estamos firmemente a su lado en su lucha por la democracia. El mejor amigo de la tiranía es el silencio y el Congreso de Estados Unidos no va a permanecer en silencio". Para leer el texto completo de la resolución, por favor haga clic aquí. ###
02.26.2014	WASHINGTON — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) has signed on as an original cosponsor of House Resolution 488, a resolution introduced by Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) in support of the Venezuelan people: "For over two weeks, the people of Venezuela have been peacefully protesting corruption, soaring crime rates, food shortages, unemployment, and the alarming attack on democracy and human rights, yet all they have received in return are serious acts of violence and aggression by Maduro's totalitarian government. Their basic rights and freedoms are under extreme assault, and this resolution affirms Congress’ commitment to the Venezuelan people who simply want to live free from oppression, violence, and political intimidation. The Venezuelan people must know that we stand firmly with them in their battle for democracy. The best friend of tyranny is silence, and the United States Congress will not remain silent." To read the full text of the resolution, please click here. ###
02.19.2014	WASHINGTON — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to the violence in Ukraine: “I'm outraged and appalled by the growing violence, brutality, and the unnecessary loss of life of more than a dozen protesters in Kiev. The Ukrainian government bears the ultimate responsibility of ensuring its citizens are safe and can peacefully express their grievances. “The voices of the Ukrainian people must be heard and the international community must stand in solidarity with those seeking to peacefully express their hopes and aspirations for a Ukraine that aspires to a democratic and prosperous future free of intimidation or fear. “The Administration must move quickly to work with Congress to consider additional targeted sanctions against those who authorize or engage in the use of lethal force. The recent actions taken by the Ukrainian government cannot be tolerated and demand harsh consequences in response.” ###
02.14.2014	WASHINGTON — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) released the following statement urging for solidarity with Cuban pro-democracy activists Jorge Luis Garcia Perez (“Antunez”) and his wife, Yris Perez. Diaz-Balart: "We strongly urge the Obama Administration, the European Union, and others in the international community who share a strong commitment to human rights and essential liberties, to express solidarity with Antunez, his wife Yris Perez, and other pro-democracy activists in totalitarian Cuba. The brutal oppression on the island must end. Please join us in vigorously condemning the Castro dictatorship’s violence against these courageous activists and supporting those who continue to risk everything for freedom." Ros-Lehtinen: “In order to denounce the oppressive tactics of the Castro regime, the Cuban people continue to stand up and risk their own lives for freedom. Antunez remains on a water and hunger strike demanding that his looted belongings be returned and that freedom is granted to his countrymen. The cowards of Cuba’s state security thugs have surrounded and raided Antunez’s home many times recently in violation of his fundamental human rights. The U.S. government and responsible nations cannot stay silent and must condemn these ongoing humiliating and degrading raids against innocent pro-democracy leaders on the island.” Antunez is one of the most well-known and unyielding pro-democracy activists in Cuba. As leader of the Orlando Zapata Tamayo National Front for Civic Resistance and Civic Disobedience, he has demanded the realization of human rights in Cuba and, as a result, has suffered seventeen years of imprisonment, harassment, beatings, and other forms of abuse. On February 5th, Castro’s thugs brutally arrested Antunez, threatened him, and seized numerous items from his home. To this day, Castro’s thugs continue to surround his house. Antunez is on his fourth day of a hunger and water strike to protest these egregious human rights abuses. Repression in Cuba has increased markedly in the past few weeks. The Cuban Commission for Human Rights and National Reconciliation reports that repression in Cuba has included 1,052 political arrests in January alone. Well-known activists such as Jose Daniel Ferrer of the Patriotic Union of Cuba (UNPACU), Guillermo Farinas, winner of the European Parliament’s Sakharov award, and Dr. Oscar Elias Biscet, winner of the Presidential Medal of Freedom, are just a handful of those who have been harassed, imprisoned, or placed on house arrest in the past few weeks. ###
02.14.2014	WASHINGTON - El Congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (R-FL) hizo las siguientes declaraciones después de los informes de agresiones violentas contra los manifestantes por parte de la dictadura venezolana: "El pueblo de Venezuela ha estado protestando en contra de la corrupción, la escasez de alimentos, el incremento de la criminalidad y el desempleo y la alarmante erosión de los derechos humanos. Lamentablemente, los verdugos de Maduro han respondido a estos valientes manifestantes con violencia y encarcelamiento, dejando a dos muertos y otros muchos gravemente heridos. "Insto a la comunidad internacional a reafirmar su compromiso con las libertades básicas que están siendo brutalmente oprimidas en Venezuela y a colocarse firmemente del lado del pueblo venezolano, que exige democracia y el derecho de vivir libre de opresión." ###
02.13.2014	WASHINGTON — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after reports of violent aggression towards protesters by the Venezuelan government: "Today, the people of Venezuela have been protesting the corruption, food shortages, soaring crime rates and unemployment, and the alarming erosion of human rights and civil society. Regrettably, Maduro’s thugs have countered these brave protesters with violence and imprisonment, leaving some seriously injured or dead. "I urge the international community to affirm its commitment to the basic freedoms that are under brutal assault in Venezuela, and to stand with the Venezuelan people who are demanding democratic institutions free from corruption, and who are asserting their right to live free from oppression." ###
02.12.2014	WASHINGTON — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after House Majority Leader Eric Cantor announced this evening that he would be bringing flood insurance legislation to the floor for a vote: "Although flood insurance reform is necessary to secure the fiscal solvency of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), we need a program that is practical and recognizes Florida's unique needs, including our fragile housing market and vulnerable coastal communities. I commend Majority Leader Cantor for acknowledging the importance of flood insurance reform to our state and his commitment to bringing legislation to the floor in the near future. I am committed to a strategy that addresses flood mitigation, affordability solutions, transparency, and lessens the financial impact on families and small business." ###
02.11.2014	WASHINGTON — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the Atlantic Council published results from its recent push-poll: "The push-poll released by the Atlantic Council today glosses over the basic realities inside totalitarian Cuba. The sanctions are in place to prevent U.S. dollars from subsidizing a brutal dictatorship that aids America’s enemies and opposes U.S. interests at every opportunity. “The poll skims over the Castro dictatorship’s egregious human rights record, including the beatings, arrests and imprisonments increasing over the past few weeks. Nor does it mention the dozens of fugitives from U.S. justice harbored by the Castro dictatorship or that U.S. humanitarian aid worker Alan Gross has remained imprisoned unjustly for more than four years. The Obama administration’s weakening of sanctions since 2009 has only emboldened the Castro regime to intensify its vicious campaign of oppression against the Cuban people and continue its anti-American activities. “Fundamental American principles of basic liberties and human rights are at the heart of U.S.-Cuba policy. U.S. law states that when free elections are held, political prisoners released, and basic liberties of expression, press, and association recognized in Cuba, the sanctions will end. In the meantime, more tourists sipping mojitos at regime-owned hotels and more business tycoons striking deals with regime-owned industries will do nothing to assist the Cuban people in their struggle for freedom. The sanctions codified in U.S. law affirm that the American people stand in solidarity with the Cuban people in their struggle for freedom by refusing to sustain their oppressors. Regrettably, the highly biased and superficial Atlantic Council push-poll provides only misinformation and distortions regarding U.S.-Cuba policy and ignores the democratic aspirations of the Cuban people." ###
02.09.2014	Washington, DC - El Congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (R-FL) emitió la siguiente declaración: “Las recientes declaraciones de Charlie Crist sobre la comunidad cubana-americana y la política de Estados Unidos así Cuba son vergonzosas. Al sugerir que la ley actual, que es una medida de solidaridad, es responsable por prolongar la tiranía castrista es repulsivo y solo sirve a los intereses de los hermanos Castro. Mientras decenas de valientes hombres y mujeres están siendo atacados y arrestados en la isla por pacíficamente exigir libertad y democracia, Crist insulta aún más a las víctimas de ese régimen opresivo al querer que negocios de la Florida le faciliten los recursos que permitirán que la violenta represión continúe.” ###
02.09.2014	WASHINGTON — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement: “Charlie Crist's recent comments about the Cuban-American community and U.S. policy are shameful. To suggest that current law, which is a measure of solidarity, is to blame for the prolonged Castro tyranny is repulsive and only serves the interests of the Castro brothers. While countless brave men and women in Cuba are being beaten and arrested for peacefully demanding freedom and democracy, Crist further insults the victims of that oppressive regime by wanting Florida business to provide it resources so that it continues its violent repression.” ###
02.07.2014	Washington, DC - El Congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (R-FL) emitió la siguiente declaración: "No es ningún secreto que el presidente Obama tiene un gran problema de credibilidad, ya sea con nuestros aliados, el pueblo estadounidense o con el Congreso. El hecho de que el presidente hace cumplir la ley de manera selectiva ha complicado el avance de la reforma migratoria en la Cámara. "Todos los días, millones de personas sufren las consecuencias de un sistema de inmigración que está totalmente roto: familias están siendo divididas, niños nacidos en este país están siendo separados de sus padres, nuestra economía sigue sufriendo y nuestra seguridad nacional está en riesgo. "Todavía creo que tenemos una oportunidad de lograr la reforma migratoria y estoy trabajando con mis colegas de ambos partidos políticos para aprobar una legislación que fortalezca nuestras fronteras y nuestra economía, pare la separación de las familias y que respete el estado de derecho." ###
02.06.2014	WASHINGTON — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement: “It's no secret that President Obama has a major credibility problem, whether it's with our allies, the American people, or Congress. The President's attitude of selectively enforcing the law has made it more difficult to move immigration reform forward in the House. “Every day, millions continue to experience the tragedies that result from our broken immigration system -- families are being split up, American children are being separated from their parents, our economy continues to suffer, and our national security is potentially at risk. “I still believe we have an opportunity to get this done, and I am working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to pass legislation that strengthens our borders and our economy and respects the rule of law.” ###
02.04.2014	WASHINGTON — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) offered the following statement after the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released a report earlier today that found Obamacare will reduce the labor force participation by 2.5 million workers. “This morning’s CBO report comes as no surprise. We have long known that Obamacare will drastically decrease the labor force, and this new report not only confirms that, but also multiplies CBO’s previous estimate. It’s not rocket science that the President’s healthcare law is harmful to the economy, workforce, and our nation’s crippling debt.” ###
02.03.2014	WASHINGTON — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement on reports of Cuban-American businessman Alfonso Fanjul considering investing in Cuba and its sugar industry. "I am outraged by reports that a fellow Cuban-American, who has witnessed the atrocities inflicted by the Castro regime, has apparently chosen short-term profit over standing with the Cuban people in their struggle for freedom. “Some might be blind to the Castro regime's brutality and ruthless oppression, but Alfonso Fanjul's betrayal is compounded because he knows better. He knows very well that any investments made with the Castro regime will not help the Ladies in White, Unión Patriótica de Cuba, the Orlando Zapata Tamayo National Civic Resistance and Civil Disobedience Front, or other pro-democracy groups, but rather, will go straight to the pockets of the Cuban people’s jailers and continue to prop them up. “Alfonso should cry less for his lost mansion, and more for the imprisoned artists and musicians, oppressed independent journalists, or for the women that are beaten every Sunday for simply wanting to celebrate mass.” ###
01.30.2014	WASHINGTON — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after Speaker of the House John Boehner released a set of immigration principles. “Speaker Boehner and House Republican Leadership recognize that immigration reform is a priority, not only for the party, but for our country. Strengthening our border security and properly enforcing those laws must be the first step towards a commonsense solution. “Knowing that we have a legal system that doesn’t work for our economy, it is irresponsible that we continue to accept the status quo. Knowing that we have millions of undocumented immigrants hiding in the shadows, it is unacceptable that we continue to provide defacto amnesty. Knowing that we don’t have a system that lets us know when foreign visitors leave our country, it is essential that we implement an entry/exit system. “I am working tirelessly with my colleagues to find a solution that strengthens our border, revitalizes the American economy, respects the rule of law, and brings families together. We have a historic opportunity to fix an immigration system that everyone recognizes is clearly broken.” ###
01.29.2014	WASHINGTON — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), member of the House Committee on Appropriations, released the following statement after passage of the 2014 Farm Bill. “The passage of this Farm Bill is a huge achievement that supports the Sunshine State’s unique agricultural needs. It improves and strengthens our agricultural programs while saving taxpayers $23 billion in spending. By consolidating wasteful programs and reducing red tape for job creators, we are able to protect our farmers, ranchers, growers, and consumers. “The Farm Bill is particularly important for Florida and the 25th district. It provides for combating invasive pests and diseases, enhancing the competitiveness of specialty crops, and research for pest and disease prevention. I’m ecstatic that the bill also includes a robust and unprecedented program to focus on research geared towards eradicating citrus greening. The $125 million in funding is essential to beating the disease wreaking havoc on Florida’s signature crop. “I congratulate Chairman Lucas on the success of this bill and thank him for recognizing Florida’s distinctive needs. I also want to commend my Congressional colleagues for working together alongside the citrus industry to make sure vital funding to combat greening was included in the Farm Bill. It is landmark legislation that will address our nation’s agricultural industries over the next 5 years.” Florida’s agriculture industry has a $100 billion economic impact on the state’s economy throughout the 50,000 farms in the state, which produce almost 300 different commercial goods. The citrus industry is Florida’s most prosperous, bringing $9 billion dollars yearly to its economic and providing over 75,000 jobs. Citrus greening is a bacterial disease that has been a chronic problem for our country’s citrus industry, especially in Florida. The disease can be found in each of Florida’s 32 commercial citrus producing counties. ###
01.24.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) released the following statement after reports of several pro-democracy activists' arrests on the island prison of Cuba: "Widespread protests across the island in places such as Bayamo, Holguin, Havana, and Camaguey resulted in harassment and arrests of many of courageous pro-democracy activists by Castro's thugs. Renowned leaders of the pro-democracy movement, including Dr. Oscar Biscet, have been detained and threatened with violent reprisals for daring to demand essential liberties. I urge those in the international community who value human rights to stand in solidarity with the Cuban people's struggle for freedom and demand an end to this brutal oppression," said Congressman Diaz-Balart. "While many leaders of the Western Hemisphere will be arriving in Cuba next week, it is appalling that the current human rights situation on the island will not be addressed nor condemned. Recent intimidation and oppression tactics against democracy leaders, such as Dr. Oscar Elias Biscet and others, has been widespread throughout Cuba as the Castro regime seeks to silence the democracy movement leading up to the upcoming CELAC conference. I urge responsible nations to stand in solidarity with the democracy leaders and condemn these human rights violations that must end immediately," said Congresswoman Ros-Lehtinen. ###
01.16.2014	WASHINGTON — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), and Congressman Albio Sires (D-NJ) released the following statement after another American celebrity is used as propaganda by a brutal dictatorship: “Dennis Rodman was rightly criticized for failing to acknowledge the unjust imprisonment of a U.S. citizen and numerous political prisoners and serving as a propaganda prop and apologist to the totalitarian dictatorship in North Korea. Similarly, last April, Shawn Carter (‘Jay-Z’) traveled to Cuba, a state sponsor of terrorism, and did not call for the release of U.S. citizen Alan Gross, who has been imprisoned since December 2009. Furthermore, Jay-Z did not show any regard for fellow rapper Angel Yunier Remon Arzuaga (‘El Critico de Arte’), a pro-democracy activist who has been languishing in poor health in a Cuban prison since March 2013. In November, when El Critico was near death in prison, my colleagues and I wrote a letter asking Jay-Z to say something which may have helped him. We have yet to receive a response to this letter.” said Congressman Diaz-Balart. “I urge celebrities such as Rodman, Jay-Z and Beyonce to speak out for those who wish to express themselves freely yet are unable to do so because they live under dictatorships. In Cuba, artists continue to be jailed and their right to freedom of speech is impaired due to the tyrannical regime. Where is the international solidarity for these frustrated artists? Jay-Z and Beyonce should use their fame to ensure others can make contributions to sports, music and the arts and enjoy the same freedoms that we treasure in our nation. The presence and engagement of Rodman, Jay-Z and Beyonce with these repressive regimes only provides a gilded patina to decrepit tyrants instead of concentrating on helping those who are oppressed,” said Congresswoman Ros-Lehtinen. “Freedom of expression and assembly without reprisal are amongst the liberties that can be most taken for granted by individuals that exercise them freely – be they artists, authors, or players of sport. They are also amongst the basic rights and liberties unknown and denied to the Cuban people by the Castro dictatorial regime. It is unfortunate that any conscionable person with the rights to these freedoms can turn a blind eye when facing outright repression and disregard for basic human rights,” said Congressman Sires. See the full letter here. ###
01.15.2014	WASHINGTON — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), member of the House Committee on Appropriations, released the following statement after passage of the FY 2014 Omnibus Appropriations Bill. “I am pleased to support legislation that will fund the government for the remainder of the 2014 fiscal year. It's no secret that Washington has a problem with out of control spending, but this bill is a sign of the continued commitment to changing the culture of spending in our nation's capitol. The House majority has successfully led the way in cutting more than $165 billion in discretionary spending since 2011, and this is the 4th consecutive year that we've achieved spending reductions. This bill focuses on funding priorities in every part of the federal government, while staying within the budgetary constraints. “I especially want to commend the full committee chairman -- Mr. Rogers, and my subcommittee chairs -- Ms. Granger, Mr. Crenshaw, Mr. Culberson, and their staffs, for working tirelessly on producing a final product on such a tight timeframe.” Southern Florida specific highlights from the bill include: --A provision amending the authorized limit for the PortMiami Deep Dredge project, allowing it to move forward without more delays --$7.5 million for the second phase of the Tamiami Trail bridge project --Fully funding the much needed improvements to aging Herbert Hoover Dike --$92 million in IRS funding is set aside to improve taxpayer services and address refund fraud, identity theft, and overseas compliance --Amending the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 to exempt medically retired personnel and survivor benefit plan annuitants from the temporarily reduced COLA provision --Funding to hire 2,000 CBP officers to expedite trade and travel through our ports of entry --Additional $20 million in one-time funding to APHIS for efforts of the multi-agency coordination involving the citrus industry to combat spread and eventual eradication of citrus greening --$30 million for Spinal Cord Injury (SCI) research for competitive grant funding for institutions such as The Miami Project to Cure Paralysis --$5 million for the Florida Headwaters for land acquisitions ###
12.20.2013	MIAMI, FL — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), member of the House Committee on Appropriations, released the following statement after the launch of the Reimbursable Services Program by U.S. Customs and Border Protection at Miami International Airport. “I am pleased to be part of the launch of CBP’s Reimbursable Services Program. Miami International Airport has a serious understaffing problem, and the airport’s participation in this pilot program will be a step towards helping to fix that. My colleagues and I have been working with Miami-Dade County to support MIA and express the dire need for more staff at the airport. “This partnership will help alleviate the long wait times at MIA. The quicker we can get our international travelers through passport control, the quicker they can get to our hotels, eat at our restaurants, see our attractions, and help pump money and jobs into our local economy. Although it doesn’t solve the entire problem, it is a significant step towards addressing it. I commend CBP and the County for coming together to find a solution that is not only innovative, but will also help grow South Florida’s economy.” This pilot program, the CBP Reimbursable Services Program, was authorized as part of the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, which passed Congress in March. Congresswomen Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Debbie Wasserman-Schultz (D-FL) Federica Wilson (D-FL) and Congressmen Diaz-Balart and Joe Garcia (D-FL) sent a letter to DHS Secretary Janet Napolitano in May supporting the County’s request to participate in this program. See the letter here. ###
12.12.2013	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the House passed the bipartisan budget-conference agreement presented by House Budget Committee chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) and Senate Budget Committee chairman Patty Murray (D-WA). “I’m pleased to have voted for this two-year budget agreement that will help to put our country back on a path to fiscal responsibility. By taking steps to reduce waste and enacting commonsense reforms to entitlement programs, H.J. Res. 59 saves our hardworking taxpayers $85 billion. While it doesn’t completely solve Washington’s out of control spending, this bill reduces the deficit, while sparing Americans from massive tax hikes. “I congratulate Chairman Ryan for once again putting our country first and setting aside political gimmicks to break Washington gridlock.” ###
12.12.2013	WASHINGTON D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after reports that the pro-Castro band “Arnaldo y su Talismán” would be participating in a “cultural exchange” in the United States. "According to recent press reports, members of the pro-Castro band ‘Arnaldo y su Talismán’ participated in acts of repression against pro-democracy activists in Cuba on December 10, 2013, International Human Rights Day. Reports also indicate that these human rights abusers claim they will travel to the United States as part of a ‘cultural exchange.’ “The Obama Administration must not allow these abettors of the murderous Castro dictatorship to enter the United States. President Obama's own Presidential Proclamation ‘Suspension of Entry as Immigrants and Nonimmigrants of Persons Who Participate in Serious Human Rights and Humanitarian Law Violations and Other Abuses’ of August 4, 2011 prohibits aliens who have committed or assisted in human rights abuses from entering the United States. I call on President Obama and Secretary Kerry to adhere to their stated principles and refuse to reward regime thugs with the special privilege of U.S. entry." See the letter here. ###
12.03.2013	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement on the 4th anniversary of American humanitarian aid worker Alan Gross’ imprisonment by the Cuban regime: “Today marks four years since U.S. humanitarian aid worker Alan Gross was arrested and imprisoned for the ‘crime’ of helping Cuba’s small Jewish community access the internet. Mr. Gross’ unjust imprisonment and draconian 15-year sentence is a grim reminder that the most innocuous, and even noble acts, are crimes in totalitarian Cuba. “The brutal and malicious nature of the Castro dictatorship has not changed. It ruthlessly oppresses its own people, aids terrorist states and organizations, channels arms to other rogue anti-American regimes, and opposes U.S. interests at every opportunity. “Unfortunately, the Obama Administration continues to reward unilateral concessions to the Castro dictatorship in the form of weakened sanctions, migration and mail ‘talks,’ and U.S. visas and special travel privileges to high-level Castro operatives. Since the beginning of the Obama Administration, the Castro dictatorship has imprisoned Alan Gross, increased its brutal oppression against pro-democracy activists leading to the deaths of Orlando Zapata Tamayo, Laura Pollan, Juan Wilfredo Soto Garcia, Harold Cepero, and Oswaldo Paya, had two Cuban spies in the State Department convicted in U.S. federal court, and was caught red-handed transferring military weapons to North Korea. The Obama Administration’s embarrassing attempts to appease the Castro dictatorship have been an utter failure which have damaged U.S. interests and channeled millions of dollars to the Cuban people’s oppressors. “The Obama Administration should focus on securing Alan Gross’ freedom and helping the Cuban people realize their democratic aspirations. It cannot effectively do so while excusing, legitimizing, and abetting their jailers. It’s clear that President Obama’s policy of appeasement and unilateral sanctions has done nothing but embolden the Castros’ terrorist regime.” ###
11.13.2013	WASHINGTON D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement regarding the recent remarks Speaker Boehner made stating that House leadership will not conference with the Senate immigration bill: “I remain steadfast in the fact that the House needs to take up immigration reform. I urge Speaker Boehner to remain open to any options that allow us to solve this crucial issue. It has been said time and time again that our immigration system is broken, and we must come together to find a sensible solution to fix it. I continue to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle on a bill that secures our border, respects the rule of law, strengthens our economy, modernizes the visa system, and addresses the millions of undocumented immigrants in a way that is both reasonable and humane.” ###
11.04.2013	WASHINGTON D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement urging the release of Cuban rapper and pro-democracy activist Angel Yunier Remón Arzuaga: "Cuban pro-freedom rapper Angel Yunier Remón Arzuaga, known as ‘el Critico del Arte,’ or 'the Art Critic,' and an active member of the Patriotic Union of Cuba, remains in prison after his brutal arrest on March 21, 2013 for expressing his opposition to the Castro dictatorship. Angel is gravely ill after undergoing a hunger strike in a Bayamo prison to protest his unjust punishment. I urge the Obama Administration and the international community to demand the immediate release of this courageous pro-democracy activist so that he may return to his wife Yudisbel Roseyo, infant child, and mother Bárbara Arzuaga." ###
10.23.2013	WASHINGTON D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the House passage of H.R. 3080, the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA) of 2013. “The Water Resources Reform and Development Act will authorize dozens of critical projects that will strengthen our economy, foreign trade, and our environment. H.R. 3080 supports job growth and strengthens our nation’s infrastructure by reducing red tape and streamlining infrastructure projects. This bill is particularly important for Florida because of the many vital projects it authorizes. WRRDA includes modified authorization for the Deep Dredge Project at PortMiami, funding for the continuation of the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan in Western Broward and Hendry Counties, and directs the Army Corps to expedite the completion of the Port Everglades and allows them to continue moving forward with the project. These three issues are vital to Florida’s infrastructure and ecosystem, and I have worked tirelessly with my Florida colleagues to prioritize them. Florida’s waterways and ports foster over 119,000 jobs and contribute $23.2 billion to the state’s economy, and WRRDA strongly supports those. “I am grateful to Chairman Shuster for his willingness to work with me on issues vital to Florida and its waterways and ports. WRRDA not only invests in American infrastructure, but also in the jobs, trade, and competitiveness that are fueled by this economic engine.” Among the key projects authorized in this bill, the following are specific to Southern Florida: ·Florida Central and Southern Florida Project, Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan, Caloosahatchee River (C-43) West Basin Storage Project, Hendry County ·Central and Southern Florida Project, Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan, C-111 Spreader Canal Western ·Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan, Biscayne Bay Coastal Wetland, Florida ·Central and Southern Florida Project, Broward County Water Preserve ###
10.16.2013	WASHINGTON D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the House voted to extend the continuing resolution at current funding levels. “Tonight’s vote will reopen the government and keep spending numbers at current levels until January 15, 2014, giving Congress the opportunity to properly finish the appropriations process and maintain the sequester savings. I will continue to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to enact meaningful long term reforms that truly address our spending and debt crises.” ###
09.20.2013	WASHINGTON D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement regarding immigration reform:“Congressmen Johnson and Carter are two men that I highly respect and it was a privilege to work closely with them alongside the other members of the immigration working group. I share their frustration with President Obama as he continues to circumvent Congress and impose his will on the American people while avoiding and ignoring current law. The lack of trust that the Administration will enforce the laws is the true impediment to getting something done in Congress.“I will continue to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to solve the issues of our country’s broken immigration system. I reiterate that the necessary components to achieve this remain the same. It must be a solution that will secure the border, strengthen our economy, respect the rule of law, modernize our visa system, and address the issue of the millions of undocumented immigrants in a way that is both reasonable and humane. I’ve long said that immigration reform will not be easy, but I’m continuing to find other avenues that will ultimately lead to a solution that the American people demand.“This great nation doesn’t just need a solution to its broken immigration system. It deserves one.” ###
09.11.2013	WASHINGTON –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement on the passing of former Congressman Clay Shaw (R-FL):“For over 30 years, Clay Shaw dedicated his life to public service. He was an honorable man who believed in the power of servant leadership and helping others. Clay was a true family man and his relationship with his wife, Emilie, was inspirational. His service as the dean of Florida’s Congressional delegation went beyond that – he was a mentor and friend to all. My wife Tia and I send our thoughts and prayers to Emilie, his children, and his grandchildren. He will always be remembered as a class act who loved his country.” ###
09.03.2013	NAPLES – On Wednesday, September 4th, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will hold media availability at Ave Maria School of Law to discuss the latest on Syria with local media. WHAT: Congressman Diaz-Balart will be available to talk to the press about the latest on SyriaWHEN: Wednesday, September 4th at 3:15 p.m.WHERE: Ave Maria College of Law St. Thomas More Commons Michigan Room 1025 Commons Circle Naples, FL 34119 Members of the press: Please RSVP to katrina.valdes@mail.house.gov by no later than Wednesday, September 4th at 12 p.m. Media availability will begin at approximately 3:15 p.m.###
08.31.2013	MIAMI, FL –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) offered the following statement on President Obama’s announcement to seek Congressional authorization for military action in Syria:“President Obama stated earlier today that he will be seeking Congressional authorization for a military strike. The many gaps in his short and insufficient statement include what the military objective would be, what effect it would have in the outcome of the Syrian conflict, and what steps are being taken to protect our allies in the region.“As I previously stated, while I would like to wholeheartedly support our Commander-in-Chief in the event of military action in Syria, any use of force must be purposeful, overwhelming, and in furtherance of specifically enumerated national security interests. Unfortunately, the President has failed to provide a coherent policy on Syria to date. His poorly conceived ‘red line’ unnecessarily leveraged U.S. credibility, and placed him in the regrettable position of either following through on the promised retaliation or confirming that his threat was a hollow one.” ###
08.30.2013	MIAMI, FL –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) offered the following statement on the possibility of the President using military force against the Assad regime in Syria: “While I would like to wholeheartedly support our Commander-in-Chief in the event of military action in Syria, any use of force must be purposeful, overwhelming, and in furtherance of specifically enumerated national security interests. Unfortunately, the President has failed to provide a coherent policy on Syria to date. His poorly conceived ‘red line’ unnecessarily leveraged U.S. credibility, and placed him in the regrettable position of either following through on the promised retaliation or confirming that his threat was a hollow one. “If the President is planning military action in Syria, he must first clearly explain his policy to the American people, cite clear national security reasons for the action, and obtain Congressional authorization. Dictator Assad, his allies in Iran, and al-Qaeda's numerous affiliates are a malignancy in the Middle East that have grown bolder during the failed, anemic policies of the Obama Administration. Any military plan of action should not be done halfway, for superficial reasons, or with vague objectives, and it must carefully weigh repercussions for allies such as Israel. Now is the time for strong leadership, clarity of purpose, and fierce determination to protect American interests. So far, these qualities have been lacking in the President's foreign policy agenda. “I hope that the Syrian people's days of fear and repression will soon be behind them. The U.S. plan of action in the coming days will be key in determining their future and demonstrating the extent of the President's resolve to defend American interests."###
08.26.2013	LABELLE, FL –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) met with members of Florida’s agriculture industry earlier this afternoon in LaBelle. Local farm owners, cattle ranchers, and crop growers participated in a roundtable hosted by the Congressman in an effort to discuss concerns and answer questions from the participants. “Florida’s diverse agriculture industry is the backbone of the state’s economy. I’m grateful to hear directly from the growers, ranchers, and farmers of Southwest Florida about their vision, concerns, and opportunities for the agriculture industry. I continue to hear that the current H-2A program simply doesn’t work, and it is imperative that growers have access to a workable system that provides a reliable and skilled workforce to help operate a business successfully and feed American families without having to rely on foreign countries for their imports. We must also do more to combat the harmful invasive pests and diseases that threaten commodities throughout states, especially citrus greening. I am committed to ensuring Florida’s specialty crop producers can best handle the uncertainty of farming, remain competitive in a global marketplace, have access to tools to prevent the spread of invasive pests and diseases, and work towards a fair and equitable agriculture worker system,” said Congressman Diaz-Balart. Ron Hamel, executive vice president of the Gulf Citrus Growers Association, participated in today’s roundtable and offered his insight on the problems GCGA faces. “The citrus growers of Southwest Florida's Gulf region greatly appreciate Congressman Diaz-Balart's leadership in working with his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives to pass immigration reform legislation that addresses our critical work force needs. The Gulf Citrus Growers Association is also pleased to hear Congressman Diaz-Balart's continual support for federal citrus research funding to assist our industry in its battle with the dreaded citrus greening bacterial disease that is threatening Florida's, Texas', and California's industries as well. We appreciate his leadership in securing the necessary support for our battle with this disease, and others that could impact our industry,” said Mr. Hamel. Florida’s agriculture industry is one of the nation’s largest and is a significant part of the state’s economy, totaling $8.26 billion dollars in 2011. ###
08.16.2013	MIAMI, FL -Rep. Diaz-Balart issued the following statement in response to The Bahamas' shocking decision to repatriate twenty-four Cuban refugees to totalitarian Cuba."It is unconscionable that The Bahamas has returned Cuban refugees to tyranny despite the fact that several had asylum offers from Panama. This outrageous act, in addition to the beatings and abuse that Cubans suffered in Bahamian care, is an utter disgrace and a blight on The Bahamas' human rights record. When these refugees are forcibly returned to totalitarian Cuba, The Bahamas will share blame for the horrors that will face them at the hands of Castros' thugs. I, and many in my community, will never forget the heartless betrayal of these freedom-seeking refugees by Bahamian authorities."
08.16.2013	Miami, FL – Rep. Diaz-Balart responds to reports that Cuban refugees in Bahamian custody will be returned to totalitarian Cuba despite Panama's offer to accept some on humanitarian grounds."I urge the Bahamian authorities not to forcibly return the Cuban nationals currently in their custody. The Cuban dictatorship is notorious for its brutality against those who try to escape its island prison. If The Bahamas decides to forcibly repatriate these refugees, it will shoulder responsibility for the inevitable abuses that follow.I would be willing to work with the government of The Bahamas and the U.S. Department of State to find solutions to the migration issues straining Bahamian resources. But, the humane and just approach cannot include the forced return to the very oppression that these refugees risked their lives to escape."
08.16.2013	Miami, FL – El Congresista Mario Díaz-Balart responde a indicaciones de que los cubanos asilados en custodia de las Bahamas serán devueltos a Cuba a pesar de la oferta de Panamá de dar asilo a algunos de ellos por motivos humanitarios."Insto a las autoridades de las Bahamas de no devolver a los ciudadanos cubanos actualmente bajo su custodia. La dictadura cubana es conocida por su brutalidad contra los que tratan de escapar de la isla. Si las Bahamas decide repatriar por la fuerza a estos asilados, asumirá la responsabilidad por los abusos que inevitablemente sufrirán.Estaría dispuesto a trabajar con el Gobierno de las Bahamas y el Departamento de Estado de EE.UU. para encontrar soluciones a los temas de migración afectando a las Bahamas. Sin embargo, una solución humana y justa no puede incluir devolver a la fuerza a los asilados a la misma opresión que arriesgaron sus vidas para escapar ".
08.13.2013	MIAMI, FL - El congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (R-FL) emitió la siguiente declaración:"Felicito al gobierno panameño por la generosa oferta de asilo que le hizo a diecinueve cubanos detenidos en las Bahamas. Algunos otros países, incluido EEUU, también ofrecieron asilo a cubanos. Estos individuos, que lo arriesgaron todo para escapar de totalitarismo, finalmente serán libres para comenzar una nueva vida.Al igual que muchos en mi comunidad, me he indignado por la detención prolongada y el maltrato a los cubanos que llegan a las Bahamas buscando asilo. No son los primeros casos de abuso de parte del gobierno de las Bahamas. Los informes indican que aproximadamente cinco cubanos permanecen en las Bahamas y aún necesitan asilo. Voy a seguir insistiendo en que todos los refugiados sean tratados con humanidad y de plena conformidad con las normas y obligaciones internacionales. De nuevo deseo dar las gracias al Gobierno de Panamá por este gesto generoso y humanitario.”
08.13.2013	MIAMI, FL — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement:"I commend the Panamanian government for graciously agreeing to provide asylum to nineteen Cuban refugees currently detained in The Bahamas. A few other governments, including our own, have also agreed to take some refugees. These individuals, who risked everything to escape totalitarianism, will finally be free to begin their lives anew. Like so many in my community, I was outraged at the maltreatment and prolonged detainment of Cuban refugees in Bahamian custody. Reports indicate that approximately five refugees remain in The Bahamas and still need asylum. I will continue to demand that all refugees be treated humanely and in full accordance with international norms and obligations, and wish to thank the Panamanian government again for their generous and humane gesture.”
08.13.2013	Today, Rep. Diaz-Balart (R-FL) expressed profound concern for pro-democracy and independent labor activist Ivan Hernandez Carrillo and urged the international community to demand an end to the Castro regime's vicious attacks and death threats against him. Ivan is one of Cuba’s leading independent labor activists and one of the seventy-five imprisoned after Cuba's Black Spring of 2003. He received the National Endowment for Democracy’s prestigious Democracy Award in 2009 for his courageous efforts to promote labor rights in totalitarian Cuba."I am deeply concerned about Ivan Hernandez Carrillo, who was cruelly attacked on July 14 and August 4 by Castro’s thugs, and who reportedly is receiving death threats.I call on the international community, human rights groups, and labor activists to demand an immediate end to the brutality against Ivan Hernandez Carrillo. He is a hero of the pro-democracy and independent labor movement in Cuba. He must no longer be terrorized for striving to achieve basic rights for the Cuban people."
08.09.2013	Miami, FL – El Congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (R-FL), la Congresista Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) y el ex Congresista Lincoln Díaz-Balart (R-FL) se reunieron con Jorge Luis García Pérez (“Antúnez”) y su esposa, Yris Tamara Pérez Aguilera, esta mañana. Antúnez encabeza el Frente Nacional de Resistencia Cívica y Desobediencia Civil Orlando Zapata Tamayo y Pérez Aguilera el Movimiento Femenino por los Derechos Civiles Rosa Parks. Líderes locales en la lucha por la libertad de Cuba estuvieron presentes para expresar su solidaridad con Antúnez, Pérez Aguilera y el movimiento de democracia.“Me siento profundamente honrado de reunirme y abrazar a Antúnez e Yris después de tantos años siendo testigo de su valentía inquebrantable y su compromiso con la libertad del pueblo cubano, ante la crueldad y persecución de los esbirros de Castro. Admiro su pasión y claridad de propósito y nunca he estado más seguro del futuro democrático de Cuba que ahora, después de escuchar a estos héroes,” declaró el Congresista Mario Díaz-Balart."Me honro reunirme, junto a mi colega congresional Mario Diaz-Balart, y mi hermano legislativo Lincoln Diaz-Balart, con estos valientes luchadores por la libertad durante su visita a Miami. Por las acciones de Antúnez, las valientes Damas de Blanco y todos los otros disidentes que arriesgan sus vidas cada día buscando libertad y democracia, Cuba será verdaderamente libre y sin los despiadados hermanos Castro y su fallida revolución comunista,” declaró la Congresista Ileana Ros-Lehtinen.“Antúnez e Yris son héroes para mí, como lo son para millones que anhelan ver a Cuba libre. Fue un profundo honor y un privilegio por fin poder conocerlos personalmente,” declaró el ex-Congresista Lincoln Díaz-Balart. ###
08.09.2013	Miami, FL –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), and former Congressman Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-FL) met with Jorge Luis García Pérez (“Antúnez”) and his wife, Yris Tamara Pérez Aguilera earlier this morning. Antúnez leads the Orlando Zapata Tamayo Civic Resistance and Civil Disobedience Front, and Pérez Aguilera heads the Rosa Parks Women’s Movement for Civil Rights. A number of key local leaders in the struggle for Cuba’s freedom were present to express solidarity with Antúnez, Pérez Aguilera, and the pro-democracy movement."I was deeply honored to meet with Antúnez and Yris after years of following their unwavering courage and commitment to freedom for the Cuban people in the face of relentless cruelty at the hands of Castro's thugs. I am in awe of their passion and clarity of purpose, and have never been more certain of Cuba's democratic future than after hearing firsthand from these heroes,” stated Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart.“I was honored to have met, along with my colleague Mario Diaz-Balart, and my legislative brother Lincoln Diaz-Balart, with these courageous freedom fighters during their visit to Miami. Antúnez and his wife, Yris Pérez Aguilera, symbolize the struggle of the peaceful Cuban pro-democracy activists against the brutal and despotic Castro regime. Because of the actions of Antúnez, his wife Yris, the valiant Ladies in White, and all the other dissidents who risk their lives every day seeking liberty and democracy, Cuba will be free and rid of the hated Castro brothers and their failed communist revolution,” stated Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen.“Antúnez and Yris are heroes of mine, as they are for millions who long for Cuba's freedom. It was a profound honor and privilege for me to finally be able to meet them personally,” stated former Congressman Lincoln Diaz-Balart. ###
08.07.2013	Miami, FL – On Friday, August 9th, Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), and former Congressman Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will meet with Jorge Luis García Pérez (“Antúnez”) and his wife, Yris Tamara Pérez Aguilera. Antúnez leads the Orlando Zapata Tamayo Civic Resistance and Civil Disobedience Front, and Pérez Aguilera heads the Rosa Parks Women’s Movement for Civil Rights. WHAT: Jorge Luis García Pérez (“Antúnez”) and his wife, Yris Tamara Pérez Aguilera, two of Cuba’s pro-democracy movement leadersWHO: Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart, and former Congressman Lincoln Diaz-BalartWHEN: Friday, August 9th, 2013 at 8:30 a.m.WHERE: District Office of Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart8669 NW 36 Street, Suite 100Doral, FL 33166 Members of the press: Please RSVP by no later than Thursday, August 8th at 8 p.m. Members will have media availability after the event ends at approximately 9:15 a.m. ###
08.02.2013	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after press reports indicate that Cuban explosives and other live munitions were found on the North Korean “Chong Chon Gang” vessel found to be smuggling weapons from Cuba last month."Today's press reports that explosives and live munitions for RPGs and heavy artillery were uncovered on a North Korean vessel after leaving Cuba provides further evidence that the Castro regime remains an active enemy of the United States and a dangerous instigator on the world stage. The regime that violently oppresses its own people also spreads violence throughout the world. The Obama Administration should take note that when it sits down with Castro operatives and offers concessions, it is appeasing a terrorist state that remains as dangerous and firmly opposed to U.S. interests as ever. This is yet another reason that the Administration must tighten sanctions against the Castro dictatorship and stop the flow of American dollars to an avowed enemy of the United States."###
08.02.2013	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), member of the House Committee on Appropriations, released the following statement after U.S. Customs and Border Protection announced that Miami-Dade County would be one of five participants in a pilot program that would allow both Miami International Airport and PortMiami to enter the CBP Reimbursable Services Program. Congressman Diaz-Balart and several members of the South Florida delegation had urged Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano to support the County’s request to participate in this program."I am pleased that Miami-Dade County was chosen as one of the participants in the CBP pilot program. Trade and tourism are two large industries that fuel South Florida's economic engine, and the additional CBP staff will alleviate serious understaffing problems at both Miami International Airport and PortMiami. It is critical that South Florida’s ports of entry remain competitive as they continue to welcome the millions of business and international travelers that visit our cities and beaches, which help create and sustain the thousands of jobs in our community.“Earlier this year, Secretary Napolitano saw first hand how adequate CBP staffing is vital for daily operations at the airport. My colleagues and I have been working together with the County to help ease the staffing issue, and although it doesn’t solve the entire problem, it is a significant step to addressing the ports’ needs. I am hopeful that this pilot program will not only reduce wait times for immigration and customs processing, but also help South Florida’s economy continue to prosper.”This pilot program, the CBP Reimbursable Services Program, was authorized as part of the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, which passed Congress in March. Congresswomen Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), and Frederica Wilson (D-FL) and Congressmen Diaz-Balart and Joe Garcia (D-FL) sent a letter to DHS Secretary Janet Napolitano in May supporting the County’s request to participate in this program. See the letter here. ###
07.10.2013	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), member of the House Committee on Appropriations, released the following statement after the House passed the FY 2014 Energy and Water Bill, which included a provision amending the authorized limit for the PortMiami Deep Dredge project.“Although this is the first step in a long process, the Committee's provision is a huge victory for the Port of Miami and the residents of South Florida. PortMiami is a vital economic engine, contributing $27 billion annually to our local economy and supporting more than 207,000 jobs in South Florida. The Deep Dredge project will deepen the Port’s existing channel, preparing it for the Panama Canal Expansion, and will bring good, high-paying jobs back home.“I'm grateful to Chairmen Rogers and Frelinghuysen for working with me to include this provision that greatly benefits our community. I also want to commend Port Director Bill Johnson and Deputy Director Juan Kuryla for their steadfast commitment and leadership to this project. I look forward to working with them and the rest of the South Florida delegation as the appropriations process moves forward.”The Water Resource Development Act of 2007 authorized the Miami Harbor Deep Dredge project at PortMiami, but the amount authorized was based on 2004 project cost estimates and did not reflect inflation adjustments. Congressman Diaz-Balart worked with his South Florida colleagues to include language in the FY 2014 Energy and Water Bill that would amend the authorizing language to reflect inflation adjustments. This provision was included in the President’s budget request.Once complete, the dredging will make PortMiami the only U.S. port south of Norfolk that will be able to accommodate the new mega cargo vessels, doubling the Port’s cargo throughput. The Panama Canal Expansion, set to be finished in 2015, will bring 33,000 new jobs to Florida, and will expand PortMiami’s economic impact to more than $34 billion annually.###
06.27.2013	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the Senate voted to pass a comprehensive immigration bill:“I am encouraged by the Senate’s actions on immigration reform. We need to find a real, permanent solution to our broken immigration system. That solution needs to secure the border, strengthen our economy, respect the rule of law, modernize our visa system, and address the issue of the millions of undocumented immigrants living in the shadows.“I will continue working with my House colleagues as we seek a good faith, bipartisan approach in the House.” ###
06.18.2013	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after meeting with Acting IRS Commissioner Danny Werfel earlier this afternoon:“Acting IRS Commissioner Werfel and I had an hour-long, frank conversation about the recent issues the IRS has been facing and the need for him to rebuild the trust in the agency. Not only did the IRS mislead the American people about the recent systematic targeting of organizations based on their political beliefs, but they also knowingly misled my office. Additionally, we discussed the continuing need for more preventative measures against identity theft and tax fraud, serious problems in my district and the nation. Mr. Werfel knows he has a monumental task of restoring Americans’ trust in the government, and I look forward to working with him.” ###
06.07.2013	MIAMI, FL — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will be recognized this evening at the American Society for Public Administration (ASPA) South Florida Chapter’s Annual Awards Reception. The organization will honor him as the Elected Official of the Year, which is the first year this award will be presented.“I am honored to be the first recipient of ASPA South Florida Chapter’s Elected Official of the Year Award. The organization serves over 200 members of the public administration industry in our community, and I proudly stand among their ranks tonight. Since I was first elected to public office, my priority has always been to serve my community with the highest standard of integrity and respect of the rule of law, two ideals I share with ASPA South Florida’s vision.” ###
06.05.2013	WASHINGTON, DC— Congressmen Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and Andy Harris (R-MD) introduced H.R. 2241, The Disaster Savings and Resilient Construction Act of 2013. The bill provides a tax credit to homeowners and building owners who use resilient construction techniques when building and renovating home and commercial structures in federally declared disaster areas. This set of building codes helps to ensure that structures use resilient construction, or techniques that are created to be more robust against natural disasters.“The Disaster Savings and Resilient Construction Act of 2013 incentivize homeowners and building owners to utilize resilient construction methods. These methods make a significant difference in the structural integrity of a building, protecting the families and communities who inhabit them. Natural disasters can strike at moment’s notice, but the implementation of these construction techniques will allow us to be prepared. Over the long run, this legislation saves hard-earned taxpayer dollars and minimizes the risk of property damage, but more importantly, reduces the loss of life,” said Diaz-Balart.You can read the bill here.
06.04.2013	WASHINGTON, DC— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) offered the following statement for the Congressional Record in recognition of the 50th anniversary of U.S. Southern Command (SOUTHCOM), one of the nine unified Combatant Commands in the Department of Defense.“Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate U.S. Southern Command (SOUTHCOM) on their 50th anniversary, and to commend its exemplary service to the United States in Central America, South America, and the Caribbean.“SOUTHCOM provides invaluable contingency planning, operations, and security cooperation to the volatile region, and has been essential to the area. Whether it be through deterring illegal activities such as drug trafficking, dismantling transnational organized crime networks, or fostering alternatives to criminal influence in under-governed areas. SOUTHCOM has consistently supported the region for all their security needs, and has strengthened the regions defense capabilities.“Recently, vital humanitarian assistance and disaster relief missions have underscored the importance of their presence in the South Florida community. For example, in 2010 SOUTHCOM led Operation Unified Response, in which a force of about 22,000 troops, more than 30 ships, and 300 aircraft provided life- saving assistance and distributed millions of pounds of food and water in Haiti following its devastating earthquake. “With an economic impact of $600 million on Miami-Dade County, SOUTHCOM’s positive influence is keenly felt throughout the community. SOUTHCOM personnel are mainstays in community organizations and contribute an astonishing 30,000 volunteer hours each year to local charity groups, community projects, and events. Moreover, by participating in activities such as color guard presentations at sporting events and parades, and giving speeches at meetings sponsored by local organizations, we are all reminded of our civic duty and the sacrifices made by those who serve.“SOUTHCOM has become an invaluable organization for the state of Florida, the Nation as a whole, and the region it serves. I am extremely proud to have SOUTHCOM in my Congressional district, and I am confident that they will continue to represent the interests of the United States with distinction.“Mr. Speaker, I am honored to congratulate SOUTHCOM as they celebrate this milestone. I am certain that we can all look forward to many more years of outstanding service, and I ask my colleagues to join me in recognizing SOUTHCOM’s achievement.”
06.04.2013	WASHINGTON, DC— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Vice-Chair of the Financial Services Subcommittee of the House Committee on Appropriations, demanded information from Danny Werfel, Acting Commissioner of the IRS, and J. Russell George, the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA), during yesterday’s subcommittee hearing in regards to the recent political targeting that the IRS has admitted to. You can watch each of his questions by clicking the images below. ###
05.24.2013	WASHINGTON, DC— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) encourages families and individuals to prepare for Hurricane Season. Diaz-Balart promotes National Hurricane Preparedness Week, which begins on May 26 and runs through June 1. Hurricane Season starts next Saturday, June 1.“With the start of another Hurricane Season, Florida and other coastal states in the U.S. face the threat of these natural disasters. National Hurricane Preparedness Week is a great opportunity to begin taking the steps to ready ourselves against Mother Nature. With the appropriate measures, we can reduce the effects that hurricanes can have on our communities, homes, and families, Diaz-Balart said.”The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) kicked off their annual National Hurricane Preparedness Week to create awareness leading up to the start of the season.More information and ideas can be found at www.ready.gov/hurricanes. Information on the different types of severe weather such as tornadoes, severe thunderstorms, and flooding is available at www.weather.gov and www.ready.gov/hurricanes or the Spanish-language web site www.listo.gov. ###
05.20.2013	WASHINGTON, DC— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in honor of Cuba’s Independence Day.“Today marks the 111th anniversary of Cuba's Independence Day, a day when the Cuban people finally and fully achieved independence from Spain. Sadly, less than 60 years after winning their independence, the Cuban people were enslaved by the brutal Castro dictatorship. As we appreciate our common Cuban culture and heritage on this day, Cubans stand united in demanding essential liberties and human rights for those who continue to languish under the Castro dictatorship's oppression. We stand in solidarity with brave heroes such as Antonio Rodiles, Berta Soler, Jorge Luis Garcia Perez (“Antunez”), Dr. Oscar Biscet, and Sara Marta Fonseca, among others, who lead the struggle for freedom. The time is quickly approaching when the island will forever be rid of the Castro brothers and their atrocities. I look forward to the day when the Cuban people finally and fully achieve their independence.” ###
05.10.2013	WASHINGTON, DC— Congressmen Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and Albio Sires (D-NJ) introduced legislation that would strengthen building codes and increase public safety. H.R. 1878, The Safe Building Code Incentive Act, provides a financial incentive to states that are proactive in adopting and enforcing nationally recognized model building codes. States that enact these building codes would qualify for an additional 4 percent of funding for hazard mitigation grants. A companion bill was introduced in the Senate by Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ).Diaz-Balart: “I am pleased to work with Rep. Sires to reintroduce The Safe Building Code Incentive Act. This legislation helps us protect and prepare our local communities and families in the event of a hurricane or other natural disaster. H.R. 1878 simply rewards good behavior, and incentivizes states to make communities safer by enacting these codes. It’s time we take proactive steps to encourage states to do more to save lives and hard-earned taxpayer dollars, while making homes and businesses more resilient to natural disasters.”Sires: “I am pleased to once again be an original cosponsor of The Safe Building Code Incentive Act. If the devastation from Hurricane Sandy has taught us anything in my region- it is that the damage could have been much worse had New Jersey not already had exemplary standards for building codes in place. Now is the time for every state to ensure that buildings are constructed in a manner that will not only stand the test of time, but stand up to the natural disasters that are bound to occur.”Menendez: “Given the frequency of disasters in the United States, having only 16 states complying with and enforcing the most up-to-date building standards is simply unacceptable. The Safe Building Code Incentive Act would provide to states enforcing the most current building codes with additional federal hazard mitigation funds after a disaster strikes. This will save lives, guard against property damage, and reduce the taxpayers’ burden following a disaster.” Original cosponsors of the legislation in the House also include: Rep. Blumenauer (D-OR), Rep. Norton (D-DC), Rep. Denham (R-CA), Rep. Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Rep. Connolly (D-VA), Rep. Gibson (R-NY), and Rep. Palazzo (R-MS).You can read the bill here.###
04.18.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after introducing a House Resolution recognizing the Falkland Islands referendum.“I commend the residents of the Falkland Islands for freely expressing their view on the political status of the islands. As Americans, we have long cherished the principle of self-determination, and stand in solidarity with the Islanders in their choice to retain their status as a British Overseas Territory. “The resolution I introduced along with my colleagues acknowledges that the referendum results are a clear expression of how the Islanders want to be governed, and urges that future dialogue over the Falkland Islands should include the views and wishes of the Falkland Islanders themselves.“The small island community in the South Atlantic seeks to continue living peacefully and further expanding their economy. I urge my colleagues and the international community to respect the overwhelming results of the referendum and honor the right of self-determination for free people.”Congressmen Bordallo (D-GU), Campbell (R-CA), Faleomavaega (D-AS), Griffith (R-VA), Hall (R-TX), Higgins (D-NY), Holding (R-NC), Marchant (R-TX), McIntyre (D-NC), Petri (R-WI), Roskam (R-IL), Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Ryan (D-OH), and Sensenbrenner (R-WI) Poe (R-TX) joined as original co-sponsors.###
04.17.2013	Washington, DC – A bipartisan group of eight Members from the U.S. House of Representatives released the following statement today regarding their efforts for comprehensive reform of the U.S. immigration system:“Americans want to see the nation’s broken immigration system fixed, and they know it will take bipartisanship to solve this problem in a sensible and rational way. This week, a bipartisan group of Senators stepped forward to introduce their proposal, and we applaud their effort. We are also working on a good faith, bipartisan effort in the House. We believe we will soon agree on a reasonable, common-sense plan to finally secure our borders and strengthen our economy, with a tough but fair process that respects the rule of law so immigrants can contribute to our country. While we have made substantial progress, we continue to work diligently towards a bill that keeps America strong, competitive and true to our values.”— Reps. Xavier Becerra (CA), John Carter (TX), Mario Diaz-Balart (FL), Luis Gutierrez (IL), Sam Johnson (TX), Raul Labrador (ID), Zoe Lofgren (CA), and John Yarmuth (KY) ###
04.16.2013	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to Sunday’s presidential election in Venezuela.“This past weekend, millions of Venezuelans went to the polls to cast their votes in the presidential election for either Chavez's chosen successor Nicolás Maduro or opposition candidate Henrique Capriles."Although Maduro has prematurely claimed victory, the reported razor-thin margin of approximately 235,000 votes out of 14.8 million votes cast, numerous voting irregularities cited by the opposition, and the obvious institutional biases favoring Maduro warrant a thorough and transparent review of all the votes."The Venezuelan people, who have endured authoritarian rule, double-digit inflation, corruption, blackouts, and increasingly high crime rates during the Chavez years, deserve to have their voices heard. During this critical time for Venezuela, the Obama Administration should not hastily recognize any election results until a thorough, transparent review of the votes has occurred.” ###
04.15.2013	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to the two explosions at the finish line of the Boston Marathon.“My thoughts and prayers go out to the victims and their families affected by today’s cowardly attack in Boston. The United States must do all that it can to ensure that those responsible will be held accountable. This is a grim reminder that we must always be vigilant against all acts of domestic or terrorist violence.“I commend the first responders who are bravely helping those who have been injured and their loved ones.” ###
04.09.2013	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to the U.S. Treasury Department confirming that they provided so-called “people-to-people” travel licenses to Beyoncé Carter-Knowles (Beyoncé) and Shawn Carter (Jay-Z) for a recent trip to Cuba.“I am outraged by the vague response from the U.S. Department of the Treasury that failed to answer the simple questions posed by my colleague Congresswoman Ros-Lehtinen and me regarding the apparent tourist activities of celebrities Mrs. Carter-Knowles and Mr. Carter in Cuba."In our letter, we explicitly requested information regarding how the highly publicized trip to Cuba, which was widely touted as tourism in press reports and Castro regime propaganda, possibly could comply with the prohibition against ‘tourist activities’ in U.S. law. The Treasury Department’s response provided overly general information on their policies and methods of reviewing applications, but provided no facts specific to that highly publicized trip. We also asked for information regarding the process of how the specific license in question was approved, and by whom. We have no answers to those straightforward questions.“I have repeatedly spoken out against abuses that result from the ‘people-to-people’ category of travel because it provides propaganda boosts and hard currency to the Castro dictatorship, and harms the Cuban people’s struggle for basic human rights and liberties. I have said that this category of travel skirts the law. It has become obvious that, in this case, the line into tourism was crossed. The Beyoncé and Jay-Z trip is a high profile example of why the ‘people-to-people’ category of travel should be eliminated. It amounts to tourism.“Many people have been deeply injured by the brutal Castro regime. Some are former political prisoners who were beaten and tortured in Castro's gulags, and others have lost family members to Castro's firing squads and prisons. Permitting apparent tourism travel to Cuba is an insult to them all. I will continue to press for answers on this issue of profound importance to my community and the Cuban people.“Cuba remains an island prison for those still struggling for basic freedoms. I urge President Obama to side with the Cuban people and halt any further channeling of U.S. tourism dollars to the their jailers.”You may view the response from the U.S. Department of the Treasury here. ###
04.08.2013	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement following the passing of Margaret Thatcher, the United Kingdom’s first female Prime Minister.“We have lost a great leader and advocate for freedom with the passing of former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. From 1979 until 1990, the United Kingdom had at its helm a leader with strong conservative principles who revitalized her country from within, and helped bring about freedom for much of the world which languished under Soviet oppression.“She and another inimitable world leader, former President Ronald Reagan, formed a powerful duo at a time when resolve and fortitude in the face of communism were desperately needed. “Her unshakable commitment to free markets and free peoples and her fierce opposition to tyranny have left a lasting and global legacy. The world could use a multitude of 'iron ladies' like Margaret Thatcher. She will be deeply missed.” ###
04.06.2013	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to the recent trip taken by two U.S. celebrities to Cuba."The numerous reports that such high-profile American celebrities might be engaged in tourist activities in Cuba are concerning. The Castro regime is one of the most oppressive and brutal dictatorships in the world. I am further disappointed that these celebrities have not arranged to meet with members of Cuba's brave pro-freedom opposition or its independent musicians. I hope that OFAC can provide answers as to how such a boon to the Castro regime's propaganda campaign complies with U.S. law."Diaz-Balart and Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) requested further information from the Office of Foreign Assets Control to assess whether the trip by Beyoncé Knowles-Carter (Beyoncé) and Shawn Carter (Jay-Z) complied with U.S. law.You may view the letter here.###
04.05.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement following the extension of Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for eligible nationals of both Nicaragua and Honduras for an additional 18 months.“The recent decision to extend TPS to Nicaraguans and Hondurans will bring relief to the countless individuals of both countries who have sought refuge in the United States. I encourage those who are eligible to begin the application process. TPS was created as a safe haven for foreign nationals, and I am glad that we can continue to provide that environment for Nicaraguans and Hondurans.” ###
04.05.2013	Washington, DC - El Congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (R-FL) emitió la siguiente declaración en cuanto a la extensión del TPS para los nicaragüenses y hondureños en EE.UU."La reciente decisión de extender el TPS para nicaragüenses y hondureños será un gran alivio para las personas de ambos países que han buscado refugio en los Estados Unidos. Animo a los que cumplan los requisitos que comiencen el proceso de solicitarlo. El TPS fue creado para dar seguridad y estabilidad a los extranjeros y me alegro de que podamos seguir ofreciendo esta vía a los nicaragüenses y hondureños ". ###
04.02.2013	Miami, FL – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will host Protecting Children Online, a forum to help parents and families protect themselves against online predators and identity theft.“We have seen and read the horror stories about pedophiles who seek out children online, yet many parents do not know what steps they can take to protect their families,” said Diaz-Balart. “By hosting this forum, I hope to create awareness throughout our community and show parents how they can keep their children safe from these vile predators.”Diaz-Balart launched the “Protecting Families Online” initiative in 2007 in an effort to educate and raise awareness. He has hosted several events throughout the years in collaboration with federal, state, and local agencies.Event Details: Diaz-Balart to Host ‘Protecting Children Online’ Forum in NaplesWHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart and representatives from the United States Attorney’s Office, Collier County Sherriff’s Office, Homeland Security Investigations, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.WHAT: Child Internet Safety Presentation and ForumWHEN: Wednesday, April 3, 2013 at 7:00 p.m.WHERE: Palmetto Ridge High School1655 Victory Lane,Naples, FL 34120###
04.01.2013	Miami, FL – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will host Protecting Children Online, a forum to help parents and families protect themselves against online predators and identify theft.“We have seen and read the horror stories about pedophiles who seek out children online, yet many parents do not know what steps they can take to protect their families,” said Diaz-Balart. “By hosting this forum, I hope to create awareness throughout our community and show parents how they can keep their children safe from these vile predators.”Diaz-Balart launched the “Protecting Families Online” initiative in 2007 in an effort to educate and raise awareness. He has hosted several events throughout the years in collaboration with federal, state, and local agencies.WHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart and representatives from the Miami Dade County State Attorney’s office, Miami Dade Police Department, Homeland Security Investigations, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. WHAT: Child Internet Safety Presentation and ForumWHEN: Tuesday, April 2, 2013 at 7:00 p.m.WHERE: Ronald W. Reagan Doral High School 8600 NW 107th Avenue, Doral, FL 33178 ###
03.26.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) sent an urgent letter to the Chargé d’Affaires of the Commonwealth of The Bahamas and the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights asking that Cuban refugees within its custody not be forcibly returned to Cuba, and that they be treated with compassion. "Numerous human rights organizations have documented the brutal oppression of the Castro dictatorship, including acts of repudiation against those who try to escape. The Bahamas has a chance to find a solution for these Cuban refugees that does not endanger their lives. Their care while in the custody of The Bahamas, and their right to be free from political persecution, are human rights issues of paramount importance. These brave refugees must not be returned against their will to the totalitarianism that they risked their lives to escape. I have asked the government of The Bahamas not to be complicit in the human rights abuses that would result if these refugees were delivered into the hands of Castro's thugs." ###
03.08.2013	Washington, D.C. –Yesterday in Santa Clara, Castro’s thugs viciously beat Yris Perez Aguilera, head of the Rosa Parks Feminist Movement and wife of pro-democracy leader Jorge Luis Garcia Perez (“Antunez”), and left her bleeding and unconscious on Prolongacion de Marta Abreu Street. After the beating, Yris has been vomiting blood, is losing sight in one eye, and continues to have bouts of unconsciousness. Her family and friends fear for her life.Congressmen Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) released the following statement:Diaz-Balart: “The Castro regime’s thugs have repeatedly targeted Yris for her daring opposition to the dictatorship’s crushing oppression. Yesterday, her simple pleas for liberty were once again met with violence. The true criminals in Cuba are the shameless thugs who perpetuate these brutal human rights abuses against defenseless women such as Yris and the Ladies in White. The Castro dictatorship has the blood of innocents on its hands, and those who carry out their misdeeds will be held accountable for their crimes. I call on the international community to condemn the regime’s brutality against Yris and other pro-democracy activists, and to pray for the health of Yris Perez Aguilera.”Ros-Lehtinen: "Once again we see the reality of life under the Castro totalitarian dictatorship; peaceful pro democracy activists beaten by Castro's thugs simply because they dared to walk together in solidarity. And this time, Yris Perez Aguilera, wife of the brave freedom fighter, Jose Luis Garcia Perez Antunez, was beaten so severely that she lost consciousness. The cowardly Castro regime beats innocent women all the time and what does the Obama Administration do in response? More diplomatic entreaties and concessions to this vile and ruthless octogenarian clique of despots that has turned Cuba into an economic and social basket case. I call upon responsible nations to condemn this latest wanton attack and for the State Department to help assure that Yris receives the proper medical care as soon as possible." ###
03.05.2013	Washington, DC- El Congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (R-FL) emitió la siguiente declaración en respuesta a la muerte del presidente venezolano Hugo Chávez:"Por más de una década, el pueblo venezolano ha sufrido bajo el régimen autoritario de Hugo Chávez. Él atacó a la libertad de prensa y detuvo a jueces y líderes de la oposición. Además, utilizó petrodólares robados al pueblo venezolano para extender su influencia y financiar los programas de siniestros dictadores como Castro, Ahmadinejad y Assad."Ahora, hay esperanza para la restauración de la libertad en Venezuela con unas elecciones verdaderamente libres y justas, la renovación de la sociedad civil y la protección de la prensa independiente. Comparto la esperanza de la patriótica comunidad venezolana del sur de Florida de que hoy pueda marcar una nueva era y el comienzo de un futuro mejor para su amado país."###
03.05.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to the death of Venezuelan president Hugo Chavez.“For more than a decade, the Venezuelan people have suffered under the authoritarian rule of Hugo Chavez. He cracked down on freedom of the press and arrested judges and opposition leaders who didn’t agree with him. Additionally, he used petro dollars stolen from the Venezuelan people to extend his influence and fund the sinister agendas of cruel dictators like Castro, Ahmadinejad, and Assad.“Now, there is hope for the restoration of freedom in Venezuela with truly free and fair elections, renewal of a civil society, and the protection of an independent press. I share the hopes of South Florida's patriotic Venezuelan community that today will mark a new era and the start of a brighter future for their beloved country.” ###
02.25.2013	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in remembrance of the third anniversary of the death of pro-democracy activist Orlando Zapata Tamayo.“Saturday, February 23 marked the third anniversary of the death of pro-democracy activist Orlando Zapata Tamayo, one of freedom’s greatest heroes. Orlando Zapata Tamayo was a member of the pro-democracy organizations Movimiento Alternativa Republicana and the Consejo Nacional de Resistencia Cívica.“The brutal Castro regime imprisoned Zapata Tamayo on March 20, 2003 during Cuba’s notorious “Black Spring.” He began a hunger strike on December 3, 2009 to protest the cruelty in Castro's prisons and arbitrary extensions of his sentence. Zapata Tamayo died on February 23, 2010 after he was denied water and forced to lay naked under an air conditioner until he developed pneumonia.“While we mourn the loss of this great hero, his mission on behalf of the Cuban people continues. Shortly after his death, other pro-democracy activists, including Jorge Luis Garcia Perez ‘Antunez’, established the ‘Orlando Zapata Tamayo National Front for Civic Resistance and Civil Disobedience’ in his honor.“Orlando Zapata Tamayo’s hope for Cuba has been kept alive by Cuba’s pro-democracy activists who refuse to let his sacrifice be in vain. Over the weekend, more than fifty Ladies in White were brutally arrested by Castro’s thugs for commemorating his death. Despite the regime’s efforts to silence him, Orlando Zapata Tamayo’s legacy of courageously opposing oppression and demanding essential liberties for the Cuban people has only grown stronger in the three years since his death.” ###
02.25.2013	Washington, D.C.–Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in remembrance of the seventeenth anniversary of the “Brothers to the Rescue” plane shoot-down. Two American civilian planes were flying over international waters and were shot down by the Castro regime.“Yesterday marked the seventeenth anniversary of the brutal shoot-down by the Castro dictatorship of two “Brothers to the Rescue” planes, which claimed the lives of Carlos Costa, Armando Alejandre, Mario de la Peña, and Pablo Morales.“The anniversary of this heinous, terrorist act over international waters is a grim reminder of the true nature of the Castro regime, and is one of many reasons that the regime remains a U.S.-designated state sponsor of terrorism. Not only have the Castro brothers increased their violent oppression of the Cuban people; they have opposed U.S. interests worldwide and actively aided America’s enemies for decades.“While we mourn the loss of the four generous humanitarians whose lives were lost seventeen years ago, we must redouble our commitment to their mission of promoting liberty for the Cuban people and continuing our resolve to hold their murderers accountable for their crimes and acts of terror.” ###
02.20.2013	Miami, FL –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after taking a tour of Port Everglades with Department of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano.“I'm grateful that Secretary Napolitano is visiting Port Everglades and Miami International Airport to fully witness the insufficient staffing at our ports. Customs and Border Patrol staffing at Port Everglades and Miami International Airport has been a continual problem that needs to be adequately addressed. Our CBP agents are working diligently to protect us from any security threats, illegal substances, and invasive pests and diseases entering the United States, but the lack of staffing is creating long and disorganized lines for travelers, and discouraging travelers from visiting and using South Florida's ports.“Tourism is the backbone of Florida’s economy, and DHS must do more to adequately staff our ports. I urge Secretary Napolitano to review the customs process; a streamlined operation with increased staff would not only be more efficient, but would help to prevent any threat from slipping by overworked and understaffed CBP agents.” ###
01.31.2013	Washington, D.C.– Today, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) was reappointed by Chairman Hal Rogers (R-KY) to serve as the Vice Chair of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government, alongside Subcommittee Chairman Ander Crenshaw (R-FL).“With the national debt over $16 trillion, we must continue to look for ways to cut unnecessary and wasteful government spending. I am honored that Chairman Rogers has asked me to serve as the Vice Chair of the Financial Services Subcommittee for a second term so that I may continue my work on the subcommittee. I also look forward to serving with Chairman Crenshaw so that the Subcommittee can provide the necessary and thorough oversight of the spending priorities of the departments and agencies in its jurisdiction.” ###
01.28.2013	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) offered the following statement in response to the released outline for a Senate immigration reform bill.“Although we have not seen the legislation text, the principles released today are compatible with the discussions in the House. The prospect of true immigration reform can only happen with bipartisan support in both chambers of Congress, and today’s news is a step in that direction. I commend the dedicated efforts of the group. We look forward to working with the Senate and President Obama to find a real, permanent solution.”###
01.14.2013	Miami, FL– Today, Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) and Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) held a forum to listen to the ideas of local community members on the topic of immigration reform. Over 60 representatives from different organizations in the South Florida community were in attendance.“I am privileged to have had the opportunity to listen to the ideas of so many immigration reform stakeholders. I’ve always stated that the best ideas come from our communities. Today was just another example where Congresswoman Ros-Lehtinen and I were able to receive thought-provoking suggestions from our constituents. We will compile all of the suggestions and ideas that we received today, bring them back to Washington, and seriously take them into account as we continue to work with our colleagues on both sides of the aisle to find a real, permanent solution to immigration reform,” said Diaz-Balart. ###
01.11.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), founder and co-Chair of the Everglades Caucus, attended the dedication of the C-111 Spreader Canal Western Project, the first project to be completed in the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan (CERP). In 2004, Congressman Diaz-Balart authored H.R. 3785, which authorized the land swap between the State of Florida and Everglades National Park in order to construct the canal. The purpose of the canal is to restore freshwater flows to Florida Bay through Taylor Slough and to preserve clean water for Everglades National Park and maintain flood controls for eastern communities. H.R. 3785 was signed into law later that year.“I am pleased to join the South Florida Water Management District in today’s dedication of the C-111 Spreader Canal Western Project. The canal is a key component to restoring fresh water flows in the Everglades. Florida is blessed to have a natural treasure like the Everglades and we have an obligation to preserve it for future generations.” ###
01.09.2013	Washington, D.C.– Today, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to the recent meeting Governor Rick Scott had with Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius regarding the Medicaid exchange program in ObamaCare.“I applaud Governor Scott and his commitment to improving the cost, quality, and access to health care for all Floridians. ObamaCare will increase spending and taxes, and raise the cost of health care, while reducing the quality of care our citizens will receive. It includes twenty new or higher tax increases, five of which went into effect on January 1st, with a projected cost of $1 trillion to American taxpayers in the next decade. A recent study conducted by Florida’s Agency for Health Care Administration demonstrated that ObamaCare’s Medicaid expansion would cost taxpayers an additional $63.4 billion over 10 years. Our taxpayers simply cannot afford this costly program. We need to protect Floridians’ access to the care they need, from the doctors they choose, at a price they can afford.” ###
01.09.2013	Miami, FL– On Monday, January 14th, Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) and Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will host a forum to listen to ideas and suggestions for immigration reform from stakeholders in the South Florida community. This event is by invitation only. WHAT: Forum on the topic of immigration reform to listen to the thoughts, ideas, and suggestions of South Florida immigration stakeholdersWHO: Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Congressman Mario Diaz-BalartWHEN: Monday, January 14th, 2013 at 10 a.m.WHERE: AWS Conference Room, 2nd Floor 8669 NW 36 Street Doral, FL 33166 (Office building where Congressman Diaz-Balart’s District office is located) Members of the press: Please RSVP to katrina.valdes@mail.house.gov by no later than Friday, January 11th, 2013 at 2 p.m. ###
01.01.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to the passage of H.R. 8, The American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2013:"As Americans throughout the country were ringing in the New Year, their taxes went up, including those on the middle class, married couples, families with kids and Floridians who benefit from the sales tax deduction. The American people cannot afford, nor do they deserve, this massive New Year’s tax hangover. While this bill has its flaws, it immediately and permanently cuts taxes on 98 percent of the American people and 97 percent of small businesses."While this bill did not address government spending, Congressman Diaz-Balart will continue to work on reigning in government spending, which is the key driver of our debt. ###
01.01.2013	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to the passage of H.R. 4212, Drywall Safety Act of 2012.“The passage of the Drywall Safety Act is another step to ensure that homeowners and their families will be protected from the hazardous effects of tainted Chinese drywall. By preventing these materials from even entering the U.S. market, consumers will no longer have to worry about the potential health risks of the corrosive gases emitted by the tainted drywall.“Thousands of homeowners, many of whom reside in South Florida, have purchased homes that were constructed using this dangerous material, and inadvertently exposed their families to numerous health concerns. With the advancement of this legislation, homeowners and their families will be protected from the harmful environments that Chinese drywall creates.”The Chinese Drywall Caucus, a group that Diaz-Balart created along with former Congressman Robert Wexler, has worked over the years to bring the necessary attention to this important matter and to prevent the importation of tainted drywall. ###
12.21.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) offered the following statement in response to U.S. veteran Jon Hammar’s release from unjust imprisonment in Mexico.“It is with relief that we receive news of the release of our veteran Jon Hammar from the Mexican prison where he has spent the past four months. I am glad that the efforts in securing Mr. Hammar’s release have proved successful, and that the Mexican government took the necessary steps. It was an honor to help the Hammar family get their son back – their ultimate holiday wish.“Hammar brought along an antique shotgun with him on a road trip to Costa Rica, though when crossing the border in Mexico, he was immediately arrested after he attempted to legally register it. Jon endured physical and mental abuse, and was used as a pawn in an attempt to extort money from his family.” ###
12.21.2012	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) submitted the following for the Congressional Record to remember singer Jenni Rivera.“Mister Speaker, I rise today to honor Jenni Rivera. On December 9th, a plane crash took the life of the singer and six others on board. Jenni Rivera was known as ‘La Diva de la Banda,’ the queen of Banda music. But she was much more than a music superstar; she was ‘una guerrera,’ a warrior for her family, and a role model to many. She faced monumental challenges in life, but tackled them with dignity and determination. At the public celebration of her life this week, her family described her as being ‘perfectly imperfect,’ but to the millions of us moved by her music and her life story, she was and will always be ‘nuestra Jenni,’ La Diva de la Banda. I ask that my colleagues join me in celebrating this beautiful guerrera, a guerrera of life and of music.” ###
12.21.2012	Washington, D.C.- Hoy el Congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (R-FL) incluyó la siguiente nota sobre el fallecimiento de la cantante Jenni Rivera en el Registro del Congreso:“SeñorPresidente de la Cámara, hoy quiero honrar el recuerdo de Jenni Rivera. El pasado 9 de diciembre un accidente aéreo le quitó la vida a la cantante y a seis de sus amigos y colegas. A Jenni Rivera se le conocía como ‘la Diva de la Banda’, la reina de la música regional mexicana, pero para millones de personas era mucho más que una súper estrella musical: era una guerrera por su familia y un modelo a seguir por como lidió con las vicisitudes de la vida con dignidad y determinación. En la celebración pública de su vida esta semana, su familia la describió como una mujer ‘perfectamente imperfecta’. Para los que la amaban por su música y por su forma de vivir, siempre será nuestra Jenni, la ‘Diva de la Banda’.” ###
12.20.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to the passage of H.J. Res. 66, The Permanent Tax Relief for Families and Small Businesses Act in the House.“The Speaker’s alternative stops taxes from increasing for 99.81% of all taxpayers. In addition, it permanently extends:The marriage penalty and child tax cut relief;The estate and gift tax cut and exemptions;The section 179 expensing, defending small businesses by making it easier for them to invest in newer and more efficient technology, which promotes growth and job creation;The Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) patch, protecting more middle class families;A maximum taxable rate of 20% on capital gains, as well as dividends for earnings of up to $1 million.“Additionally, the passage of H.R. 6684, the Spending Reduction Act, reduces the deficit by approximately $200 billion more than the original sequester, and eliminates a number of wasteful slush funds and reckless spending. The United States House of Representatives is committed to protecting American families, their jobs, and their wallets.” ###
12.20.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to Senator Bob Menendez’ (D-NJ) introduction of S.3694, the Senate companion bill to The Safe Building Codes Incentives Act, originally sponsored by Congressman Diaz-Balart.“I applaud Senator Menendez for his efforts to introduce The Safe Building Codes Incentives Act in the Senate. S.3694 creates a financial incentive for states to adopt and enforce statewide building codes that would protect communities in the event of hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fire, and other natural disasters. States that enact comprehensive building codes will qualify for an additional four percent of funding for disaster relief. The version Senator Menendez introduced applies this incentive retroactively to include those affected when Hurricane Sandy devastated parts of the Eastern Seaboard in late October.“This is the right approach that we must take when dealing with natural disasters. By doing so, we can encourage states to be proactive and have stronger building codes. Ultimately, the goal is to save money, and more importantly, to save lives.”###
12.19.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressmen Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), and other members of Congress sent a letter to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano, calling for their leadership in securing the release of U.S. Marine Corps veteran Jon Hammar, a U.S. citizen who has been imprisoned in Mexico since August.“Jon Hammar set out to drive to Costa Rica with a fellow veteran to vacation, yet the past few months have been anything but that. Mr. Hammar brought along an antique shotgun he received from his grandfather. When Jon attempted to register the gun while crossing the border in Mexico, he was arrested and charged with possession of an assault rifle restricted for military use, and was taken to a Mexican prison. Other inmates have beaten and harassed Jon, and have even gone as far as trying to extort money from his family by threatening to kill him if they didn’t immediately wire money into their accounts. Jon was later removed from general population, but was put in isolation, where he was chained to his bed and to the wall.“For the past four months, the Hammar family has suffered and agonized over the unjust and cruel imprisonment of their son. The State Department must do more to bring home our veteran who so bravely risked his life serving his country in Iraq and Afghanistan. The Administration must step up its efforts and do everything in its powers to arrange for his release. Jon Hammar did not think twice before risking his life to defend his country. Now, his country must not fail him.”Read the whole letter here.###
12.03.2012	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement on the 3rd anniversary of American humanitarian aid worker Alan Gross’ imprisonment by the Cuban regime:“Today marks three years since Alan Gross, a humanitarian aid worker and U.S. citizen, was arrested and imprisoned for the so-called ‘crime’ of helping Cuba’s small Jewish community access the internet. During his three years in prison, Mr. Gross has lost more than 100 pounds and is suffering from a growth on his shoulder that has neither been properly diagnosed, nor treated.“The continued, unjustifiable imprisonment of the ailing Mr. Gross is a grim reminder of the true nature of the Castro regime which brutally oppresses Cuba’s pro-democracy activists, suppresses all outside information, and maintains a stranglehold on all aspects of daily life in Cuba. Mr. Gross’ imprisonment and fifteen-year sentence for attempting to bring internet access to a small group of Cubans is yet another example of the ruthless nature of the totalitarian regime.“The Obama Administration should abandon its failed policy of providing unilateral concessions to the Castro dictatorship in the form of expanded travel, increased remittances, and the granting of U.S. visas to high-level regime operatives. It is time for the Administration to stop appeasing the Castro dictatorship and its egregious human rights record, and immediately cease the channeling of U.S. currency to the Cuban people’s oppressors.“At the time of his arrest, Mr. Gross was engaged in America’s noble effort to bring outside information to the Cuban people. Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights explicitly lists the ‘right … to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers’ as an essential liberty. His imprisonment, and the regime’s brutal oppression of pro-democracy activities, demonstrates the pressing need for increased solidarity with Cuba’s pro-freedom opposition and a deepened commitment to assisting the Cuban people in their struggle for basic liberties.” ###
11.29.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement condemning the vote in the U.N. General Assembly to recognize Palestine as a non-member observer state.“Today’s vote by the United Nations, a body long antagonistic to Israel and dominated by non-democratic states, is both reckless and irresponsible. It is unfortunate that the Palestinian Authority has taken this unilateral action that will not bring the peace, security, and economic stability the region desperately needs and deserves, and will harm future negotiations.“The U.N. needs to realize how detrimental this recognition will be, not only for our ally Israel, but for the Middle East peace process and regional stability. Peace will not come through resolutions or statements at a body with a longstanding history of hostility towards Israel. True and lasting peace can only be achieved through serious and direct negotiations between the parties and the acceptance of each other’s right to exist.“The vote highlights the need to reconsider the use of American taxpayer dollars to fund both the United Nations and the Palestinian Authority. As a member of the Appropriations subcommittee that allocates our country’s dollars to fund the U.N., I will be working to do just that.”###
11.29.2012	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) offered the following remarks at the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Subcommittee on Government Organization, Efficiency and Management hearing: “Identity Theft and Tax Fraud: Growing Problems for the Internal Revenue Service.”“As some of you may know, South Florida has been one of the most affected areas in the country when it comes to IRS identity theft issues. I’ve had dozens of constituents reach out to me because their tax returns have been stolen and they’ve felt absolutely helpless. I’ve even had numerous constituents who’ve had their tax returns stolen more than once, which is completely unacceptable. “These people are honest, hard working individuals who rely heavily on their tax return to help pay their bills. We need to do more to help those victims and to prevent these crimes from taking place in the future. This has been one of my top priorities and I’ve worked closely with the IRS to help resolve this epidemic of fraud. While the IRS has made some vast improvements over the last year, there is still much that needs to be done. I was happy to hear about the Identity Theft Victim Disclosure Waiver Pilot Program that was implemented in Florida in April of this year. So far the program seems to be helping state and local authorities prosecute the individuals responsible for these crimes. “While this program is a step in the right direction, more needs to be done on the issue. So far, most of what the IRS has implemented deals only with the crime once it’s occurred. They need to put a larger focus on the prevention of these crimes. The IRS must come up with a detailed plan to prevent further tax return fraud from taking place while also taking care of the tax payers who have already fallen victim. It’s my hope that this hearing will serve as a discussion on how we can improve our tax return system and protect taxpayer’s hard earned money.” ###
11.29.2012	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Chairman of the Hispanic Conference, released the following statement in anticipation of H.R. 6429, STEM Jobs Act of 2012, coming to the floor later today.“I applaud Majority Leader Cantor for the effort he is making to keep families together through H.R. 6429, STEM Jobs Act of 2012. The bill will make up to 55,000 visas available to qualified immigrants who have a doctorate degree in a field of science, technology, engineering, or mathematics (STEM). Current law provides a visa only for the qualified individual. This version of the bill expedites the visa authorization process for their spouses and children, and facilitates the reunification of these families.“By extending visas to the family members, we can ensure that these families stay together, simply because it is the right thing to do. This bill not only keeps these families together, but promotes innovation, investment, and research in the United States. STEM graduates create the new businesses that promote economic growth and job creation.” ###
11.16.2012	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to the violence happening in Israel.“The brutal barrage of rockets from the Gaza Strip, controlled by the terrorist group Hamas, must stop. No country should be subjected to have its civilian population under constant attack. Congress stands firmly with our friend Israel, and steadfastly supports our great ally’s right to protect itself from terrorist threats.”“At this difficult time, it is vital that the United States stand with Israel and its right to defend its civilians and its national security. We must also be vigilant to stop any possible international efforts, such as in the UN, that may use this incident in an attempt to delegitimize Israel.” ###
11.16.2012	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) offered the following statement on IKEA’s release of the results of the investigation after IKEA was accused of working with the Cuban regime to use prisoner slave labor to manufacture furniture.“Yesterday, IKEA released the results of a months-long investigation, which involved sifting through thousands of documents and archived materials by an outside group, to uncover the extent of its former business contacts with the Castro regime.“The study could not definitely conclude that Cuban political prisoners had no involvement in the manufacture of IKEA products. However, it did reveal that there was no evidence that IKEA products were manufactured with forced labor, nor was there evidence that IKEA had any knowledge of the use of political prisoners at any step in its manufacturing process. The study also revealed that IKEA’s business relationship with the Castro dictatorship was short-lived and extended only to the production of seventy-one sofa set samples which ultimately failed to meet quality standards. “I commend IKEA’s serious investigation into its past contacts with the brutal, oppressive Castro dictatorship. Other businesses with objectionable past behavior or shameful business relationships should take note that facing the truth is better than attempting to bury it. I hope that IKEA will continue to examine any new evidence that could shed light on its contacts with the Castro regime, and that it will listen to any new witnesses who may come forward in the future.“Since 2000, IKEA has followed a strict code of conduct that absolutely prohibits slave or prison labor. At this point, IKEA appears to have charted a better course that will avoid the mistakes of its past.” ###
11.16.2012	Washington, D.C. - Hoy el Congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (R-FL), Presidente de la Conferencia Hispana, anunció que ha reiniciado el proceso de la reforma integral de inmigración para que sea aprobada en la Cámara de Representantes de EEUU. Díaz-Balart se ha reunido con sus colegas de ambos partidos políticos."Durante años, ambos partidos han utilizado la inmigración para sembrar división, pero ha llegado el momento de encontrar una solución bipartidista a este tema tan crítico. Estoy comprometido en que se apruebe legislación para arreglar, de una vez por todas, nuestro sistema de inmigración,” dijo el congresista Díaz-Balart. ###
11.16.2012	Washington, D.C. –Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Chairman of the Hispanic Conference, announced that he has restarted the process of moving a comprehensive immigration bill through congress as soon as possible. Diaz-Balart has been meeting with his colleagues from both political parties."For too long both parties have used immigration as a political wedge issue, but the time has come to find a bipartisan solution to this critical issue. I am committed to passing legislation to once and for all to fix our broken immigration system," said Congressman Diaz-Balart. ###
11.13.2012	Washington, D.C. –El Congresista Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) condenó hoy el brutal arresto y la encarcelación de Antonio Rodiles, director del programa cubano de libre opinión "Estado de SATS", y su colega opositor, Ángel Santiesteban.“Es una atrocidad que la dictadura cubana arrestó violentamente a docenas de activistas por la democracia cuando expresaban su apoyo a los derechos humanos fundamentales y libertades para Cuba. Antonio Rodiles, un brillante joven activista por la democracia, líder de la campaña "Por Otra Cuba, y director del innovador programa “Estado de SATS,” fue severamente golpeado y permanece en prisión junto a su colega, el activista por la democracia Ángel Santiesteban.“Estos valientes líderes por la democracia, y todos los otros presos políticos en Cuba, tienen que ser liberados inmediatamente, y todos los falsos cargos sin base que enfrenten deben ser inmediatamente desestimados," declaró Diaz-Balart. ###
11.13.2012	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) today condemned the brutal arrest and imprisonment of Antonio Rodiles, director of the Cuban free opinion program entitled, “Estado de SATS,” and fellow pro-democracy activist, Ángel Santiesteban.“It is an outrage that the Cuban dictatorship violently arrested dozens of pro-democracy activists last week as they expressed their desire for fundamental human rights and freedoms in Cuba. Antonio Rodiles, a bright, young pro-democracy activist, leader of the “For Another Cuba” campaign, and director of the cutting-edge program “Estado de SATS,” was severely beaten and remains in prison along with fellow pro-democracy activist and protester Ángel Santiesteban.These brave pro-democracy leaders, and all other political prisoners in Cuba, must be released immediately, and any baseless, trumped up charges facing them must be dropped without delay,” said Diaz-Balart. ###
11.02.2012	Washington, D.C. –Today, Representatives Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) sent a letter to Secretary Clinton, Attorney General Holder, and Secretary Napolitano asking for the immediate removal of Castro regime enforcer and a brutal head of prisons, Crescencio Marino Rivero, and for an explanation of why convicted Cuban spy Rene Gonzalez was allowed to travel to Washington, D.C. Said Diaz-Balart:"I am outraged that the Obama Administration has once again demonstrated its open door policy toward Castro regime operatives by granting residency to a brutal human rights abuser, and by welcoming a dangerous, convicted spy to the very doorstep of our national government. “U.S. law, foreign policy, national security interests, and common sense warn against admitting dangerous members of totalitarian regimes into the U.S., or permitting convicted spies virtually unfettered travel. Nonetheless, this administration has failed to protect the American people from such obvious perils. Yet again, the Obama Administration has fallen into its disturbing pattern of appeasing dictatorships and has demonstrated that its policy of willful blindness toward the world's most brutal regimes knows no bounds.“The President's policy has not only compromised America's security, but it has sent the disgraceful message to pro-democracy activists languishing under tyranny that the President is more interested in coddling their oppressors than joining them in their cause for freedom." Said Ros-Lehtinen: “It is the height of hypocrisy for this former official of the feared and brutal Cuban Ministry of the Interior (MININT) to spend his golden years in the comfort and freedom Miami offers. That is unacceptable to the innumerable Cubans who have suffered under the oppressive yolk of the Castro brothers and it is utterly unacceptable to me. “If Mr. Rivero lied on his applications to gain entry into the U.S., then he should suffer the full consequences of the law. As opposed to the dictatorship he was once a part of, in this nation of laws that is the USA he will be able to fully defend himself.I am sure that other Castro henchmen are trying to live out their final years in the comfort of the city and exile community which they so forcefully vilified. But if we find them, and the law says they’re guilty, they should be immediately expelled.” ###
10.17.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement congratulating the citizens of Georgia for their fair and transparent election last month:“I congratulate the people of Georgia for conducting one of the most credible and competitive elections in the county’s young history. International observers and election monitors witnessed a transparent electoral process, and Georgians have set a shining example for other emerging democracies around the world.“I especially want to commend President Saakashvili for contributing to the process of ensuring a smooth transition of power. President Saakashvili has steadfastly shown his genuine commitment to growing democracy and strengthening democratic institutions. Under his distinguished leadership, Georgia has instituted meaningful reforms that have tackled corruption, raised standards of living, and further integrated Georgia with its Western friends and allies.“I look forward to working with the new government. I will remain engaged with our Georgian partners to deepen ties, further strengthen Georgia’s democratic aspirations, ensure restoration of Georgia’s territorial integrity, and work with Georgia's government and partners to ensure Georgia's ultimate membership to NATO.” ###
10.16.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement, encouraging the U.S. citizens of Puerto Rico to vote in the upcoming plebiscite that will help determine the future of the island:“The people of Puerto Rico have contributed greatly to the American society and our way of life since the island became a territory more than a century ago. However, the question of Puerto Rico’s ultimate status has not been resolved.On November 6th, the U.S. citizens of Puerto Rico have the remarkable opportunity to take a critical step towards resolving a significant issue facing the island’s future. I strongly encourage the voters to make their voices heard and take part in this important process of self-determination.” ###
10.02.2012	Washington, D.C. –Yesterday, Representatives Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Peter King (R-NY), and Scott Garrett (R-NJ) sent a letter to President Obama expressing disgust that, due to abuses of weakened travel regulations under the Obama administration, U.S. students recently met with a fugitive from U.S. justice while purportedly on an "educational" trip to Cuba, which currently harbors more than seventy fugitives from U.S. justice. Diaz-Balart said: “It is an outrage that, while on a so-called ‘educational’ trip to Cuba, permitted by President Obama’s weakened sanctions, at least one U.S. university arranged for its students to meet with a potentially violent fugitive from U.S. justice. The Cuban regime, one of only four U.S.-designated State Sponsors of Terrorism, welcomes enemies of the United States with open arms. It is appalling that an American university, aided by the administration’s weakened regulations, would expose its students to enemy propaganda from the mouths of criminals. My heart goes out to the families of those who fell victim to U.S. fugitives still receiving safe harbor in Cuba. Their losses are not forgotten, and the murderers, who have enjoyed solace from an enemy state for far too long, must be brought to justice. In the mean time, it is incumbent on the President of the United States to ensure that his expanded travel no longer compounds the injustice by licensing travel to those who seek to meet with fugitives.”King said: “The issue of Cuba providing safe harbor to an assortment of fugitives including - cop killers, FALN terrorists and other assorted thugs is an ongoing disgrace. The fact that impressionable, young American adults are provided an opportunity to meet with these individuals is an insult to the victims, their families and our justice system. We need to know what is being done to extradite these fugitives or are they now simply future ‘educational activities’ for American children to interact with while in Cuba?”Garrett said: "I am concerned that the Obama Administration’s definition of an ‘educational experience’ includes having American college students meet with fugitives in a country that sponsors terrorism and gives refuge to violent offenders. This incident puts a spotlight on the Obama Administration’s ineptness when it comes to enforcing sanctions and protecting American safety abroad. The victims of the crimes perpetrated by those being safely harbored by the anti-American Cuban regime deserve to know if this meeting was an isolated incident or part of a much larger systematic abuse of licensed travel." ###
09.18.2012	Washington, D.C. –"I am relieved that the hunger strike led by brave pro-democracy activists for more than a week has ended without loss of life, and that these heroes have succeeded in gaining support and solidarity from the international community. Furthermore, reports indicate that their courageous protest has led to the promised release of Jorge Vazquez Chaviano, who was unjustifiably imprisoned since attempting to see the Pope during His visit to Cuba in March.“Unfortunately, the Cuban people remain imprisoned by an oppressive regime that ignores their fundamental rights and continues brutal acts of repression against them. We cannot forget the Cuban people's daily struggle for freedom from tyranny. Until the unjust imprisonments, violent acts of repudiation, and relentless oppression end, we must continue our solidarity with Cuba's brave pro-democracy movement and its noble cause. We must also continue to demand free multiparty elections for the Cuban people.“Cuba's pro-democracy activists have demonstrated the undaunted strength of their convictions at great personal sacrifice. They have proven once again to the Cuban people, and to the world, where Cuba's true leadership lies." ###
09.17.2012	Miami, FL – This afternoon, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Congressman David Rivera (R-FL), and former Congressman Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-FL), held a press conference in support of the more than 25 human rights and pro-democracy activists who are on a hunger strike. The hunger strike, initiated to protest the regime’s brutal oppression and unjust imprisonment of political prisoners, includes well-known pro-democracy leaders such as Marta Beatriz Roque and Jorge Luis Garcia Perez “Antunez”. Janisset Rivero-Gutierrez of Directorio Democratico Cubano, Sylvia Iriondo of M.A.R. Por Cuba, and Berta Antunez, sister of Jorge Luis Garcia Perez “Antunez”, also spoke in support of these heroic activists.Numerous members of the international community have expressed their support of the activists, including The Community of Democracies Parliamentary Forum, Antonio Lopez-Isturiz, Secretary General of the EPP (European People's Party), Jose Ramon Garcia Hernandez, the International Secretary for Partido Popular (PP) in Spain, Michael Kaminski, Member of the European Parliament, Elmar Brok, Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee, European Parliament, Uruguayan Congressmen Jaime Trobo and Martin Elgue, The Dominican Patriotic Council -- Hipolito Ramirez, Former Uruguayan PresidentLuis Alberto Lacalle, Former Salvadoran PresidentArmando Calderon Sol, The Mexican Orlando Zapata Tamayo Civic Front -- Miguel Hernandez.Said Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart: “The people of Cuba have been deprived of the most basic rights, and these brave activists are protesting with the last resource they have left: their own bodies. Increasingly brutal repression and the unjustifiable imprisonment of political prisoners motivate their impassioned calls for freedom and human rights. I thank my colleagues who have spoken out in support of their cause, and the growing list of leaders and organizations from across the globe who stand in solidarity with these courageous heroes of Cuba's pro-democracy movement.”Said Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen: “These courageous Cuban pro democracy activists desperately want the community of responsible nations to hear their pleas demanding freedom, liberty and respect for their human rights. My South Florida Congressional colleague, Mario Diaz-Balart, as well as the groups that joined us today fully support their efforts to focus world attention on the repression committed by the Castro regime against anyone who dares oppose them. Our message today to our Cuban brothers and sisters is that we stand in solidarity with them and we will continue denouncing the Castro brothers at every opportunity we get.”Said former Congressman Lincoln Diaz-Balart:"It is important for the heroic Cuban hunger strikers to know of the extensive international solidarity they have generated for the cause of Cuba's freedom.” ###
09.16.2012	Miami, FL – On Monday, September 17th, members of the South Florida delegation will hold a press conference in support of the more than 25 human rights and pro-democracy activists who are on a hunger strike. The hunger strike, initiated to protest the regime’s brutal oppression and unjust imprisonment of political prisoners, includes well-known pro-democracy leaders such as Marta Beatriz Roque and Jorge Luis Garcia Perez “Antunez”.Numerous members of the international community have expressed their support of the activists, including The Community of Democracies Parliamentary Forum, Antonio Lopez-Isturiz, Secretary General of the EPP (European People's Party), Jose Ramon Garcia Hernandez, the International Secretary for Partido Popular (PP) in Spain, Michael Kaminski, Member of the European Parliament, Elmar Brok, Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee, European Parliament, Uruguayan Congressmen Jaime Trobo and Martin Elgue, The Dominican Patriotic Council -- Hipolito Ramirez, Former Uruguayan President Luis Alberto Lacalle, Former Salvadoran President Armando Calderon Sol, The Mexican Orlando Zapata Tamayo Civic Front -- Miguel Hernandez. WHAT: Press Conference to show support and solidarity for the more than 25 human rights and pro-democracy activists on hunger strike in CubaWHO: Members of the South Florida delegationWHEN: Monday, September 17th, 2012 at 2 p.m.WHERE: District Office of Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart8669 NW 36 Street, Suite 100Doral, FL 33166 ###
09.13.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to an internal email that was sent within the Environmental Protection Agency that featured an image of Che Guevara:“It is outrageous that as we begin the month-long celebration of Hispanic Heritage Month, the Environmental Protection Agency would send a staff wide e-mail that included a picture of Che Guevara. Che was a cold-blooded murderer who killed so many innocent victims. This Administration has granted visas to Mariela Castro and other top Cuban regime officials, offered the Castro brothers unilateral concessions, and now sends an email with a image of an anti-American mass murderer. This is not only offensive to victims and their families, but also to anyone who believes in freedom. This email does not celebrate Hispanic heritage, but rather insults everything that the Hispanic community stands for.” ###
09.13.2012	Washington, D.C. - Moments ago, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart spoke on the House Floor regarding the hunger strike underway in Cuba by brave human rights and pro-democracy activists to protest the regime's brutal oppression and the unjust imprisonment of political prisoners. The growing list of those who have joined the hunger strike, which now has a reported twenty-eight participants, includes well-known pro-democracy leaders Jorge Luis García Pérez “Antúnez” and Marta Beatriz Roque Cabello as well as: Jorge Vázquez Chaviano;Arturo Conde Zamora;Yerandi Martínez Rodríguez;Orlando Almenares Reyes;Luis Enrique Ponce Sánchez;Roberley Villalobos Torres;Israel Robert Isaac;Yuniel Álvarez García;Luis Enrique Santos Caballero;Yosmel Martínez Corcho;Alberto Reyes Morales;Omar Pedroso Suárez;Yadira Rodríguez Bombino;Ibis María Rodríguez González;Fermín Zamora Vázquez;Yasmani Nicle Abad;Rosa María Naranjo Nieves;Ramón Esteban Enamorado;Ángel Caballero Oduardo;Leonardo Cancio Santana;Pedro Fernández Vega Cortés;Arcelio López Rojas;Misahel Valdes Diaz;Jorge Luis Recio AriasTo watch Diaz-Balart’s full commentary, click the image below. ###
09.12.2012	Washington, D.C. —Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will host Service Academy Day at the U.S. Southern Command on Saturday, September 15, at 8:30 a.m.On this day, representatives from the U.S. Naval, U.S. Air Force, U.S. Military, U.S. Merchant Marine and U.S. Coast Guard Academies will be on site to meet with and inform perspective students about educational and career opportunities at the service academies. High school students in District 21 interested in applying to a service academy or eager to learn more about serving in the U.S. Military are encouraged to attend. Parents and family members are welcomed to attend. As of today, more than a 140 guests have confirmed attendance in addition to various state and local elected officials.Currently, 14 students nominated by Diaz-Balart are completing work in West Point, the Naval Academy, Air Force Academy, or the Merchant Marine Academy. Eleven others have graduated and are now serving in the U.S. Military. *Media must RSVP with Katrina Valdes by 10 a.m. on Friday, September 14, to ensure admittance. WHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart and representatives from the U.S. Navy, U.S. Air Force, U.S. Military, U.S. Merchant Marines and U.S. Coast Guard WHAT: Service Academy Day WHEN: Saturday, September 15, at 8:30 a.m.WHERE: U.S. Southern Command9301 NW 33rd StreetDoral, FL 33172RSVP: By 10 a.m. on Friday, September 14, with Katrina Valdes, 202-225-4211. RSVP required due to security restrictions, ID must be presented at checkpoint for admittance.###
08.11.2012	WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to Governor Mitt Romney’s choosing of Congressman Paul Ryan as his vice presidential running mate:“It is clear that Governor Romney is serious about dealing with the most important issues facing our country – fixing the economy and creating jobs. Congressman Ryan, who is often referred to as a ‘fiscal warrior’, has prioritized these issues as Chairman of the House Budget Committee, and will continue to do so as the vice presidential nominee. The Romney/Ryan team will ensure that we get our country back to work and back on track.” ###
08.02.2012	WASHINGTON, DC- The Assembly of the Cuban Resistance, in conjunction with the International Republican Institute and the Center for Freedom and Democracy, hosted an event this afternoon entitled "Pro-Democracy Movements in Totalitarian States.”Congressman Diaz-Balart, Congressman Sires, Congressman Diaz-Balart, Chairman Ros-Lehtinen, and Congressman Rivera Offered remarks:Mauricio Claver-Carone, Cuba Democracy Advocates, András Bácsi-Nagy, Chargé d'Affaires of the Embassy of Hungary, Orlando Gutierrez-Boronat, Cuban Democratic Directorate (Directorio), Carl Gershman, National Endowment for Democracy, Congressman Lincoln Diaz-Balart, White Rose InstituteFeatured Panelists: Janisset Rivero, Directorio, Berta Antunez, Rosa Parks Feminist Movement, John Suarez, Directorio, Sylvia Iriondo, M.A.R. por Cuba, Marc Wachtenheim, Center for Freedom and Democracy, Horacio Garcia, Proyecto Pro Cambio, Carlos Ponce, General Coordinator, Latin American and Caribbean Network for Democracy, Frank Calzon, Center for a Free Cuba, Anibal Cabrera, Grupo Internacional de Solidaridad Social Corporativa, Darsi Ferrer, MD, Recently exiled Cuban dissident leaderKey activists in Cuba were honored by Members of Congress and the Senate for having received The Annual Boitel Award. Alongside Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Chairman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Senator Bill Nelson (D-FL),Congressman Albio Sires (D-NJ), Senator Bob Menendez (D-NJ), and Congressman David Rivera (R-FL) were there to honor them.RECIPIENTS OF THE 2012 “BOITEL AWARD”1. Julio Columbié Batista, was very involved in collecting signatures for the Varela project and emerged as a pioneer of public protests against Cuban prisons. He is the founding Director of the National Civic Resistance and Civil Disobedience Orlando Zapata Tamayo Front and just a short time later restructured the historic Pedro Luis Boitel National Civic Resistance Movement. 2. Blás Augusto Fortún Martínez, spent time in a forced labor camp in his late teens, afterward becoming involved with the Cuban Nationalist Movement Party and then with the Pedro Luis Boitel National Civic Resistance Movement. He continues to play an important part in public protests all over the country. 3. Damaris Moyas Portieles, Co-President of the Central Opposition Coalition in Villa Clara and chairwoman of the Rosa Parks Women's Movement for Civil Rights. She has become well known for her role organizing hunger strikes and standing by her principles.4. Donaida Pérez Paseiro, first became linked to the opposition in 2007 as a freelance journalist. Joined the Independent Press Agency Laureles Press and was involved in the start of the National Front and the Rosa Parks Movement.5. Marta Díaz Rondón, one of the main coordinators of the Eastern Democratic Alliance and the Orlando Zapata Tamayo Civic Resistance Front. She is a Dama de Blanco and Vice Chair of the Rosa Parks Civil Rights Movement.6. Jorge Olivera Castillo, writer, poet, editor and television journalist, he joined the opposition in 1993 and initially worked as part of the Independent Union Confederation of Democratic Workers of Cuba (CTDC). Beginning in 1999 and up until his arrest during the Black Spring of 2003, he was the director of the independent news agency Habana Press. He was released in 2004 on medical parole due to health issues.Currently he is an independent journalist and president of the Writers' Club Cuba, an entity that seeks to open a space for all Cuban writers committed to the defense of freedom of creation. ###
07.31.2012	WASHINGTON, DC- The Assembly of the Cuban Resistance, in conjunction with the International Republican Institute and the Center for Freedom and Democracy, is hosting an event entitled, "Pro-Democracy Movements in Totalitarian States.”WHAT: “Pro-Democracy Movements in Totalitarian States”WHEN: Thursday, August 2nd from 12:00 p.m.-2:30 p.m.WHERE: Congressional Meeting Room North, Capitol Visitor CenterOffering remarks:Mauricio Claver-Carone, Cuba Democracy Advocates, András Bácsi-Nagy, Chargé d'Affaires of the Embassy of Hungary, Orlando Gutierrez-Boronat, Cuban Democratic Directorate (Directorio), Carl Gershman, National Endowment for Democracy, Congressman Lincoln Diaz-Balart, White Rose InstituteFeatured Panelists: Janisset Rivero, Directorio, Berta Antunez, Rosa Parks Feminist Movement, John Suarez, Directorio, Sylvia Iriondo, M.A.R. por Cuba, Marc Wachtenheim, Center for Freedom and Democracy, Horacio Garcia, Proyecto Pro Cambio, Carlos Ponce, General Coordinator, Latin American and Caribbean Network for Democracy, Frank Calzon, Center for a Free Cuba, Anibal Cabrera, Grupo Internacional de Solidaridad Social Corporativa, Darsi Ferrer, MD, Recently exiled Cuban dissident leaderThe Annual Boitel Award will be presented to key activists in Cuba by Members of Congress and the Senate. Alongside Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Senator Bob Menendez (D-NJ), Congressman Albio Sires (D-NJ), and Congressman David Rivera (R-FL) will be in attendance to present the awards. ###
07.30.2012	WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after walking out on the opening of Miami International Airport’s new Metrorail station:“American aid worker Alan Gross is being held hostage, numerous pro-democracy activists have been murdered, and it is just days after the violent death of Oswaldo Payá. I will not sit idly listening to the representative of the company that profits from Castro’s blood money.” ###
07.28.2012	Washington, D.C. –Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement celebrating Peru’s Independence Day:“I want to join the people of Peru and the Peruvian community in South Florida as they celebrate 191 years of independence. May their country continue to prosper as they retain a commitment to their democratic principles, remembering those who fought for the liberties they have today. I look forward to continue working with the Peruvian community.”###
07.28.2012	Washington, DC – El Congresista Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) hizo la siguiente declaración hoy con motivo del Día de la Independencia de Perú:"Quiero unirme al pueblo de Perú y a la comunidad peruana en el sur de Florida en la celebración del 191o aniversario de la Independencia del Perú. Que el país siga prosperando y mantenga el compromiso con sus principios democráticos, recordando aquellos que lucharon por las libertades que disfrutan hoy en día. Continuare trabajando con los líderes de Perú.” ###
07.27.2012	WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the Commerce Department reported this morning that the U.S. gross domestic product (GDP) grew at an annual rate of 1.5 percent in the second quarter of 2012:“Today’s alarming report from the Commerce Department is just another sign that the economy isn’t doing ‘just fine’. The President’s plan, which includes increasing regulations and taxes on job creation, is the primary reason why the economy is as anemic and sluggish as it is. I have tirelessly advocated for fewer regulations, simplification and reduction of taxes on job creation, and the development of our domestic energy supply. Just this week, the House passed H.R. 4078, the Red Tape Reduction and Small Business Job Creation Act, which imposes a moratorium on non-health and emergency-related federal regulations until national unemployment drops beneath 6 percent. That bill will join over 25 bills that the House has passed as part of our jobs agenda, most of which are languishing in the Senate.Mr. President, we tried your plan, and it didn’t work. It’s time for a new approach.” ###
07.24.2012	Washington, D.C.– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will offer the following testimony before the Subcommittee on Economic Development, Public Buildings, and Emergency Management today. The hearing will be held at 10 a.m. in 2167 Rayburn House Office Building, and can be streamed live here.“From time to time, Mother Nature sends us a wake-up call. We need to answer it and move decisively to promote sound strategies that save lives, mitigate the devastation of future disasters, and save taxpayer money. A foundation of our national response should be the adoption of model building codes that will make our homes and businesses more resistant to nature’s forces. It is not enough to simply pass another supplemental appropriations bill and wait for the next storm to hit.“That is why I, along with my colleagues Representatives Albio Sires (D-NJ), Richard Hanna (R-NY), and Steve Southerland (R-FL), have introduced H.R. 2069, the Safe Building Code Incentive Act. This legislation provides a financial incentive for states to voluntarily adopt and enforce model national building codes for the construction of new residential and commercial properties. Qualifying states would receive an additional 4 percent in post-disaster relief grants from FEMA to address long-term hazard mitigation, such as improving drainage structures, restraining cables on bridges, elevating structures to reduce flood damage, and installing window shutters for hospitals and other critical facilities. This bill rewards states that already have and enforce building codes, and states that don’t have them are given a significant incentive. This bill does not place a mandate on states that do not currently have and enforce statewide building codes.“The facts surrounding strong building codes are clear and widely embraced by disaster mitigation experts and emergency management officials. As Congress considers disaster funding in response to current and future disasters, the Safe Building Code Incentive Act can make our homes and communities safer and stronger while saving lives, reducing long-term costs, and ultimately saving taxpayer dollars. We can’t afford to pass up an opportunity to do something lasting for the American people.” ###
07.20.2012	Washington, DC-El representante Mario Díaz-Balart (R-FL) emitió la siguiente declaración en honor del cumpleaños del Dr. Oscar Elías Biscet:"Hoy, quiero expresar mis mejores deseos al Dr. Oscar Elías Biscet, médico cubano y valiente activista de los derechos humanos en Cuba, en el día de su cumpleaños. En repetidas ocasiones, el Dr. Biscet ha sufrido prisión y tratamiento inhumano a manos de esbirros de Castro simplemente por hablar en contra de flagrantes violaciones de los derechos humanos, dejando al descubierto los horrores del sistema de salud cubano, incluyendo abortos forzados. Se vio obligado a compartir una celda con criminales dementes y violentos y más tarde fue recluido durante años en una pequeña celda inmunda. El Dr. Biscet ha recibido numerosos premios por su dedicación inquebrantable a la libertad y la valentía que ha demostrado ante la opresión atroz en nombre del pueblo cubano. El presidente George W. Bush otorgó al Dr. Biscet la Medalla Presidencial de la Libertad el 5 de noviembre de 2007. Jefes de estado y legisladores de todo el mundo nominaron al Dr. Biscet para el Premio Nobel de la Paz. Puede que el Dr. Biscet no esté--de momento--en su pequeña celda de prisión, pero él y el sufrido pueblo cubano permanecen en una isla prisión donde las libertades básicas de expresión, de asociación, y de creencia son ferozmente reprimidas.Mis mejores deseos en su cumpleaños, querido amigo. Rezo para que usted celebre su próximo cumpleaños en una Cuba libre de la tiranía asesina que ha asolado al pueblo cubano desde hace demasiado tiempo. " ###
07.20.2012	Washington, D.C.– Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) issued the following statement in honor of the birthday of Dr. Oscar Elias Biscet:"Today, I extend warm birthday wishes to Dr. Oscar Elias Biscet, a Cuban physician and brave human rights activist in Cuba."Dr. Biscet has repeatedly suffered imprisonment and inhumane treatment at the hands of Castro’s thugs for simply speaking out against egregious human rights abuses, exposing the horrors of the Cuban health care system and atrocious forced abortions. He was forced to share a prison cell with insane and violent criminals, and later was held in a tiny, filthy prison cell for years. Dr. Biscet has received numerous accolades for his unwavering dedication to freedom and his bravery in the face of unspeakable oppression on behalf of the Cuban people. President George W. Bush awarded Dr. Biscet the Presidential Medal of Freedom on November 5, 2007. Legislators and heads of state from around the world nominated Dr. Biscet for the Nobel Peace Prize. Dr. Biscet may be free of his tiny prison cell for the moment, but he and the long suffering Cuban people remain in an island prison where basic liberties of expression, association, and belief are fiercely suppressed."Best wishes on your birthday, dear friend. I pray that you will celebrate your next birthday in a Cuba that is free from the murderous tyranny that has plagued the Cuban people for far too long." ###
07.20.2012	WASHINGTON, DC- Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement on Colombia’s Independence Day. Diaz-Balart comments:“I would like to join the people of Colombia and Colombians in South Florida as they celebrate their 202 years of Independence from Spain. As we commemorate this special day for Colombia, it is significant to recognize the continuation of strengthened relations with the country. The recent enforcement of the U.S.-Colombia Free Trade Agreement (FTA) helps to expand the economies of both countries. Colombia is a friend and staunch ally to the United States, and the FTA will only make the relationship stronger.” ###
07.20.2012	WASHINGTON, DC- El Congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (R-FL) hizo la siguiente declaración hoy con motivo del Día de la Independencia de Colombia:"En este aniversario de la Independencia de Colombia le envío una felicitación muy especial al pueblo de Colombia y a todos los colombianos del Sur de Florida. Al conmemorar este día tan especial para Colombia, es importante reconocer la continuación de unas relaciones más estrechas con el país. La aplicación reciente del Tratado de Libre Comercio con Colombia ayuda a expandir las economías de ambos países. Colombia es un amigo y aliado incondicional de Estados Unidos, y el Tratado sólo hará que la relación será más fuerte. " ###
07.20.2012	Washington, DC - El Congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (R-FL) emitió la siguiente declaración en relación a la tragedia que se produjo esta mañana dentro un cine en Aurora, Colorado:"Estoy profundamente entristecido por los hechos ocurridos esta mañana en Aurora, Colorado. Familias acudieron a un cine para ver una película y pasar un rato agradable, pero sin embargo sufrieron una escena de horror y violencia. Quiero dar mi más sincero pésame a las víctimas y sus familias y confío que el responsable de este nefasto crimen reciba la justicia que se merece." ###
07.20.2012	Washington, D.C.– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in regards to the shooting that occurred at a movie theatre in Aurora, Colorado early this morning:“I am deeply saddened by the events that occurred this morning in Aurora, Colorado. Moviegoers went out for an enjoyable time at the theater, yet their evening turned into a scene of horror and violence. I extend my condolences to the victims and their families and hope that the person responsible will be held accountable for their malicious and cruel actions.” ###
07.11.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) responds to an interview by Oscar Haza which aired last night on the program, “A Mano Limpia” on América TeVe, in which President Barack Obama commented on his failed policies toward Cuba and Venezuela.“President Obama clearly wants to continue his failed policy of providing unilateral concessions to the Castro dictatorship, and expects that the murderous regime will in turn ‘recognize that their system is no longer working.’ Yet during his three and a half years in office, the regime has responded by holding hostage American humanitarian aid worker Alan Gross, murdering four political prisoners of conscience, and increasing its brutal oppression against the Cuban people. That President Obama continues to reach out a hand to the Cuban dictatorship, and ignores the brave pro-democracy movement in Cuba, is an outrage. It is deeply disturbing that in the face of the regime’s demonstrated depravity, President Obama continues to expect that his acts of appeasement will somehow convince the regime to ‘recognize that their system is no longer working.’ Miraculously, the President fails to notice that it is precisely his policies which have increased the channeling of U.S. dollars to the Cuban dictatorship and have only emboldened it further. Clearly President Obama’s policies are ‘working’ just fine for the Castro brothers. “As to Venezuela, President Obama said that Chavez ‘has not had a serious national security impact’ on the United States. His willful ignorance on this matter is shocking from a U.S. president. The President must have forgotten that his own State Department expelled the Venezuelan consul general in Miami for plotting against U.S. security interests, and that Chavez fiercely supports the State Sponsors of Terrorism Iran, Syria, and Cuba, and the terrorist organizations, the FARC and Hezbollah, with his vast petroleum resources, safe harbor, and access to credit.“It is dangerous that President Obama is utterly blind to the brutal nature of the Castro dictatorship, and to the grave threats posed by Hugo Chavez’s committed support for terrorist states and organizations. The Castro dictatorship and Chavez actively work against U.S. interests and in coordination with other U.S. foes. In our dangerous world, it is appalling that the United States has a President who completely fails to appreciate serious threats within our own hemisphere.” ###
06.28.2012	Washington, D.C.- El Congresista Mario Diaz-Balart (Republicano de Florida) hizo la siguiente declaración sobre el fallo de la Corte Suprema de hoy:“La decisión de La Corte Suprema es un masivo aumento de impuestos a todos estadounidenses.La reforma del Presidente Obama dramáticamente aumenta los impuestos y el precio del cuidado de salud a todos en Estados Unidos. A pesar de que el Presidente Obama prometió que su reforma iba a reducir el costo del cuidado de salud, en realidad lo opuesto ha sucedido. Con el mandato individual, la Corte Suprema ha reiterado que Obamacare si es un impuesto a todo el pueblo estadounidense. Adicionalmente, la ley de Obama ha dañado seriamente a la economía, y ha sido un importante factor en laescasez de nuevos empleos.Yo seguiré trabajando con mis colegas en el Congreso para reducir el costo del cuidado de salud sin aumentar impuestos, sin incrementar la burocracia federal y sin destruir la economía de Estados Unidos.” ###
06.28.2012	Washington, D.C.– Today, the Supreme Court of the United States ruled Obamacare constitutional. Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) issued the following statement on the ruling:“Today’s Supreme Court decision is a huge tax increase on the American people. The President’s healthcare bill, which was written behind closed doors, dramatically increases taxes, fees, and the cost of healthcare for all Americans. Obamacare was supposed to lower the price of healthcare. Instead, it has done the exact opposite – the price of healthcare has skyrocketed. With the individual mandate, President Obama is slamming the American people with a burdensome new tax. It has also been a major factor in the sluggish growth of our economy and anemic job creation. I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to repeal Obamacare in order to protect Americans’ access to the care they need, from the doctors they choose, at a price they can afford.” ###
06.25.2012	Washington, D.C.– Today, Mauricio Claver-Carone, the editor of the blog Capitol Hill Cubans, released a letter that advocated for the Cuban pro-democracy movement and committed to an economic restructure of a free Cuba. The letter was signed by more than a dozen former Fortune 500 senior executives and multinational business leaders. Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) issued the following statement in response:“I am pleased that many of our community’s most distinguished business leaders pledged their support of Cuba’s brave pro-democracy movement, and publicly vowed to repudiate all business ties with the Castro dictatorship."These business leaders clearly see the regime’s sham economic “reforms” for what they are: a cynical attempt to garner international support and divert attention from its failures and increasingly brutal oppression. Rather than falling for the latest manipulations of the Castro dictatorship, these leaders call for the unconditional release of all political prisoners, the recognition of basic rights, and the complete dismantling of Castros’ machinery of oppression before they would consider pursuing business interests in the country of their birth. "I commend these pillars of our community for definitively choosing to stand with the Cuban people as they continue their courageous struggle for freedom, and for steadfastly refusing to do business with their oppressors."You can read the full letter here. ###
06.15.2012	Washington, D.C.– Today, President Obama announced an executive order on deportations. Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) issued the following statement on the President’s remarks:“More than three and a half years ago, President Obama made a promise to the Hispanic community for comprehensive immigration reform. Today, he offered an executive order that smacks as a desperate and blatant political move.Instead on delivering comprehensive immigration reform, the President’s order barely touches on his promise. My office has continually reached out to the White House over the years, and the Administration is nowhere to be found. Once again, he ignored working on the issues in a bi-partisan fashion.This executive order is only a small part of what he promised. His intention to sway Hispanic voters within the last few months before the election is a transparent and politically calculated move.” ###
06.07.2012	Washington, D.C.– Today, the House passed H.R. 436, a bill repealing the medical device tax that was included in Obamacare. The bill repeals a 2.3 percent tax on the manufacture or import of medical devices, beginning in 2013. Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) issued the following statement: “The 2.3 percent tax on medical devices would seriously hurt the patients who depend on these crucial medical devices. Additionally, the businesses that manufacture and import these devices would have to eliminate over 40,000 jobs and would see $3.5 billion dollars in losses. Research and development, clinical trials, and investments – factors that are significant to the development of technology to improve the well-being of patients, as well as the growth of the industry – would suffer greatly. By repealing this bill, we are one step closer to reversing Obamacare and the job-killing increases in healthcare costs for patients. The House has taken the first step and I now urge Senate Democrats and President Obama to follow our lead in order to stop this devastating tax from being implemented.” ###
06.06.2012	Washington, D.C.– Today, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), along with colleagues House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Congressman David Rivera (R-FL), and Senators Bob Menendez (D-NJ) and Marco Rubio (R-FL), met with representatives of IKEA of Sweden AB and IKEA North America Services, LLC, regarding recent press reports that IKEA may have contracted in the 1980s, through an East German supplier, with the Cuban regime to use prisoner slave labor to manufacture furniture.Diaz-Balart issued the following statement after the meeting:“Representatives from IKEA informed us that they have made this issue a top priority. IKEA has begun a thorough investigation to discover the extent of its role in contracting with the East German supplier, and with the Cuban regime to use forced prison labor. It has vowed to investigate the extent of its contractual and other involvement with the Castro dictatorship, including whether Cuban political prisoners had any hand in the manufacture of IKEA products, and to keep us informed about the results of that investigation. In addition, they have made it clear that they do not partake in any sort of business with Cuba.It appears that IKEA is taking this matter very seriously, and that it has initiated concrete steps to discover the truth about IKEA’s possible connection in the 1980s to the Castro regime, and to keep interested Members of Congress well informed about the progress of that investigation. I intend to follow the progress of that investigation very closely, and hold the corporate leadership of IKEA to its word.” ###
06.02.2012	Washington, D.C.– Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement on the death of Adolfo Calero Portocarrero, who passed away this morning:“Earlier this morning, respected pro-democracy leader Adolfo Calero Portocarrero passed away. By founding and serving as the president of Fuerza Democrática Nicaragüense (FDN), Calero Portocarrero was the symbol of a country struggling to regain its freedom from the communist dictatorship that controlled Nicaragua during the 1980s. The Nicaraguan people showed great heroism in their battle for democracy and independence from the Ortega dictatorship. While Ortega has returned to power, the drive for freedom continues to live on through the tireless spirit of the people of Nicaragua and its exile community living in South Florida. Today, I mourn the death of a brave hero who fought for the freedom of his people.”“My thoughts are with his wife, children, family, and the people of Nicaragua, as they cope with such a painful loss. May God bless them through this time, and may his soul rest in peace.” ###
06.01.2012	Washington, D.C.– The May unemployment report was released this morning, and it has left much to be desired. Unemployment rose back up to 8.2 percent, and Hispanic unemployment jumped to 11.0 percent. Only 69,000 jobs were added this past month, marking that as the least amount added to the job market in over a year.Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) issued the following statement on the unemployment report:“These dismal numbers are sadly no longer a surprise; they simply reiterate and remind us month after month of President Obama’s disastrous economic policies. After a failed stimulus of nearly a trillion dollars, the President has the audacity to ask for more spending, more borrowing, and more taxes. Unfortunately for the American people, this president’s policies have failed miserably.”“Yes, President Obama may have brought us change, but it is not change we can believe it. It is change that has increased the national debt by $5 trillion dollars, change that has allowed GDP growth to creep along tantalizingly slow at 1.9 percent, and change that has marked May as the fortieth consecutive month with the unemployment rate above 8 percent.”“It’s time for President Obama to stop dividing the American people. It’s time for him to recognize that his policies have failed, and to finally start cooperating with Republicans on bipartisan solutions to get America working again.” ###
05.30.2012	Washington, D.C.– Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) recognized Carmen J. Rico for her winning piece in the 2012 Congressional Art Competition. Her piece titled “Hydro-nymph (Florida Mermaid)” was chosen out of 83 entries submitted from 13 participating schools. Rep. Diaz-Balart visited Rico at her school, Southwest Miami Senior High School, to congratulate her for the winning piece. Rico was also presented with a flag that was flown over the U.S. Capitol in honor of her winning this year’s competition.Carmen Rico, holding the flag, is pictured with Rep. Diaz-Balart, her mother Ms. Amarilis Pernas, her sister Ada B. Rico, and Southwest Miami Senior High School principal Carlos A. Diaz. The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 as a way to recognize and encourage the artistic talent of the country’s youth. Since then, over 650,000 high school students have participated nationwide. Each spring a winner is selected from each Congressional District in the U.S. ###
05.25.2012	WASHINGTON, DC— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) encourages families and individuals to prepare for Hurricane Season. Diaz-Balart promotes National Hurricane Preparedness Week, which begins on May 27 and runs through June 2. Hurricane Season starts next Friday, June 1.“The Hurricane Season of 2012 is upon us, and as Floridians, we know this is something that should not be taken lightly. I remain hopeful that our communities will be spared from a serious storm, but we must nonetheless be prepared to reduce the effects of a natural disaster,” said Diaz-Balart. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) kicked off their annual National Hurricane Preparedness Week to create awareness leading up to the start of the season.More information and ideas can be found at www.ready.gov/hurricanes. Information on the different types of severe weather such as tornadoes, severe thunderstorms and flooding is available at www.weather.gov and www.ready.gov/hurricanes or the Spanish-language web site www.listo.gov. ###
05.21.2012	Washington, D.C.-- Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-21) and Rep. David Rivera (FL-25) will host a conference call tomorrow, Tuesday, May 22nd at 9:00 AM ET to discuss Obama rolling out the red carpet for the Castro family.What: Press Conference CallWho: Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-21) Rep. David Rivera (FL-25)When: Tuesday, May 22 at 9:00 AM ETCall In Number: 800-619-4425Password: GOP ###
05.18.2012	Washington, D.C.– Representatives Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Albio Sires (D-NJ), and David Rivera (R-FL) sent a letter to Secretary Hillary Clinton expressing outrage that the Obama Administration provided entry visas to high-level Cuban Communist Party operatives Josefina Vidal Ferreiro, Eusebio Leal, and Mariela Castro Espin. They released the following comments in regards to the abysmal circumstances: “It is appalling that the Obama administration is welcoming high-level agents of the Castro dictatorship onto U.S. soil. While the Cuban people are struggling for basic freedoms in the face of increasingly brutal repression, and American humanitarian aid worker Alan Gross languishes in prison, the Obama administration has made a reckless and dangerous decision to embrace regime operatives. This is yet another example of the administration's misguided policy of rewarding the murderous Castro dictatorship for its atrocious human rights record and persistent attacks on U.S. interests worldwide.” –Rep. Diaz-Balart“I am opposed to the granting of visas by the State Department to three high-level Cuban regime officials in recent weeks. This ‘open door’ policy for operatives of a state-sponsor of terrorism is dangerous and has granted the Castro brothers and their espionage activities direct access to the United States. Josefina Vidal Ferreiro, Eusebio Leal, and Mariela Castro Espin are part of a regime that denies its citizens basic human rights and actively undermines the interests of the U.S. at every turn. Granting visas to the oppressors of the Cuban people is an affront to all the freedom fighters in Cuba who work to rid their nation of that despised dictatorship. The State Department needs to wake up from its delusional love fest with the dictators in Havana. I urge them to immediately revoke these visas.”–Rep. Ros-Lehtinen“It is indefensible that the United States would allow these Cuba officials entry visas to the United States. Such action is not only a unilateral concession to the oppressive Cuban regime, but it directly conflicts with current law, which forbids such visas from being issued. By issuing these visas, the United States is sending a message to Cuba and to the rest of the world that our country does not take known threats seriously.”–Rep. Sires“By granting entry visas to Cuban Communist Party representatives Josefina Vidal Ferreiro, Eusebio Leal and Mariela Castro Espin, the State Department is sending a message that is contradictory to established U.S. policy—specifically the Cuban Liberty and Democratic Solidarity Act and Presidential Proclamation 5377—which suspends entry of and denies visas to officers and employees of the Cuban dictatorship and the Cuban Communist Party. Vidal Ferreiro, Leal and Castro Espin are all vocal advocates for the tyrannical and oppressive Castro regime. The State Department should not be putting out the welcome mat for officials from countries that have officially been designated as State Sponsors of Terrorism.”–Rep. Rivera You can view the full letter here. ###
05.18.2012	Washington, D.C. – “I commend Governor Romney’s campaign for taking a principled stance against the irresponsible and offensive actions taken by President Obama and his administration. Allowing these senior regime officials from a state-sponsored terrorism to enter our country is not only against Presidential Proclamation 5377, but it shows that the current Administration has lacks major concern for American aid worker Alan Gross, who is still being imprisoned on the island.”Earlier this morning, Governor Mitt Romney’s Policy Director Lanhee Chen issued the following statement in regards to the issuance of visas to high-ranking officials of the Cuban Communist Party:“The Obama administration’s decision to grant a visa to Mariela Castro, daughter of the Cuban dictator Raul Castro, is a slap in the face to all those brave individuals in Cuba who are enduring relentless persecution for fighting for the universal rights we Americans hold dear. Unfortunately, this decision is part of a larger pattern. For even as the Castro brothers have tightened repression on the island over the past three years, the Obama administration has softened its approach. The United States should be standing up for freedom, not coddling the privileged children of Communist dictators.” ###
05.17.2012	Washington, D.C.– Today, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) called for the immediate release of four brave activists working to bring human rights and democracy to the oppressed people of North Korea. Many strongly fear that these activists, imprisoned by Communist China’s state security on the Sino-North Korean border, have undergone harsh interrogations and even torture at the hands of both Communist China and North Korean thugs. It is imperative that the international community press for the immediate release of these pro-democracy activists.You may view his full remarks here. ###
05.17.2012	Washington, D.C.– Today, Representatives Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Albio Sires (D-NJ), and David Rivera (R-FL) sent a letter to Secretary Hillary Clinton expressing outrage that the Obama Administration provided entry visas to high-level Cuban Communist Party operatives Josefina Vidal Ferreiro, Eusebio Leal, and Mariela Castro Espin, while the regime continues to imprison American aid worker Alan Gross.The State Department's Bureau of Consular Affairs asserts in Presidential Proclamation 5377 that:“Section 1. Entry of the following classes of Cuban nationals as nonimmigrants is hereby suspended: (a) officers or employees of the Government of Cuba or the Communist Party of Cuba holding diplomatic or official passports; and (b) individuals who, notwithstanding the type of passport that they hold, are considered by the Secretary of State or his designee to be officers or employees of the Government of Cuba or the Communist Party of Cuba.”“The administration’s appalling decision to allow regime agents into the U.S. directly contradicts Congressional intent and longstanding U.S. foreign policy. It is reckless and dangerous to welcome high-level agents from a State Sponsor of Terrorism with an extensive espionage network to peddle their anti-America propaganda on U.S. soil. While the Cuban people struggle for freedom against increasing brutality at the hands of Castro’s thugs, the Obama administration is greeting high-level agents of that murderous dictatorship with open arms. It is shameful that the Obama Administration would waive the common sense restrictions in place to appease the Castro dictatorship once again.”You can read the full letter here.###
05.16.2012	Washington, D.C.– Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) applauds the enforcement of the U.S.-Colombia Free Trade Agreement (FTA), which went into effect yesterday. With the United States already standing as Colombia’s largest trading partner, and Colombia is the United States’ third-largest export market in Latin America, the FTA will help to expand the economies of both countries. Colombia is a friend and a staunch ally to the United States, and the FTA will only make the relationship stronger. With the FTA, it has been estimated the exports of U.S. goods will expand by $1.1 billion, which increase the number of jobs in the United States by thousands. The Agreement is also expected to increase U.S. GDP by $2.5 billion, and will eliminate nearly all remaining tariffs on trade with Colombia within 15 years.Diaz-Balart commented the following on the seven months it took for the FTA to be approved by President Obama: “Unfortunately, President Obama’s delay of the FTA cost the U.S. market share and thousands of jobs. I want to again thank Speaker Boehner and Ways and Means Chairman Camp (R-MI) and Trade Subcommittee Chairman Brady (R-TX) in making the Agreement a reality, despite President Obama’s obstructionism.” ###
05.15.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) offered the following statement for the Congressional Record, commemorating the life of political activist Orlando Zapata Tamayo, a prominent figure in the fight for democracy on the island of Cuba:“We commemorate the day that Orlando Zapata Tamayo would have turned 45 years old had his life not been cut short by the murderous Castro dictatorship. He was a member of the pro-democracy organizations Movimiento Alternativa Republicana and the Consejo Nacional de Resistencia Cívica. He was arrested several times, including on March 20th, 2003 during Cuba’s notorious ‘Black Spring.’ During his many years in prison, he suffered beatings, humiliation, and long periods of solitary confinement. Orlando Zapata Tamayo began a hunger strike on December 3rd, 2009 to protest inhumane prison conditions and arbitrary extensions of his sentences. His hunger strike lasted more than 80 days. During that time, he was deprived of water, suffered abhorrent prison conditions, and ultimately died at the hands of the Castro regime on February 23rd, 2010. Sadly, the two years since Orlando Zapata Tamayo’s death have been years of increased repression and more murders by the Castro regime. The number of political arrests doubled between 2010 and 2011, and the first three months of 2012 have proven even more brutal and repressive than the same period last year.While we continue to mourn the loss of Orlando Zapata Tamayo, his spirit and mission have nonetheless strengthened Cuba’s courageous pro-democracy movement. Shortly after Orlando Zapata Tamayo’s death, other pro-democracy activists continued his cause such as Jorge Luis Garcia Perez (‘Antunez’), who founded the ‘Orlando Zapata Tamayo National Front for Civic Resistance and Civil Disobedience.’In so many ways, Orlando Zapata Tamayo still lives. Among the pro-democracy activists that honor him and continue his mission, Orlando Zapata Tamayo is an enduring symbol of perseverance in the face of brutal repression. Although his life was brutally cut short, Orlando Zapata Tamayo will forever be a blessing to Cuba’s courageous pro-democracy movement and to the activists that will not allow his sacrifice to be in vain.” ###
05.10.2012	Washington, D.C.– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) went on the floor of the House today to give a colloquy on H.R. 5652, the Sequester Replacement Reconciliation Act, and received a commitment from Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee Chairman Joe Pitts to work with Diaz-Balart, Puerto Rico Governor Fortuño, and Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen on a solution to the disparity of Medicaid funding to Puerto Rico. Diaz-Balart and Ros-Lehtinen commented: “We commend Chairman Ryan for his leadership in developing budget proposals that will begin to impose fiscal discipline on Washington and implement real solutions to address our debt and deficit crises. In order to meet our commitment to our constituents and to the nation’s taxpayers – that we will reduce government spending levels – we must pass this critical legislation. As we make these tough choices, however, we must also ensure we act equitably in the solutions we advance.The American people and House Republicans are overwhelmingly opposed to Obamacare, because of the unconstitutional individual mandate, cuts to Medicare and a slew of job-killing new taxes and regulations, and not to mention that the law is at least partially responsible for the unacceptable 10% Hispanic unemployment rate.However, we do have a concern with one of the provisions in the Reconciliation Act that would affect what Puerto Rico receives in Medicaid funding. We look forward to continue working with Congresswoman Ros-Lehtinen and Governor Fortuño, who has been the most fiscally responsible Puerto Rican Governor, reducing Puerto Rico’s budget deficit by 90%, to restore the funding levels in Medicaid so that we can properly address the needs of the millions of U.S. citizens in Puerto Rico and other territories.”During the colloquy, Chairman Pitts assured Congressman Diaz-Balart that he would work with him, Congresswoman Ros-Lehtinen, and Governor Fortuño to continue to provide the necessary Medicaid assistance to the U.S. citizens who reside in Puerto Rico and the U.S. territories. ###
05.02.2012	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will host a reception in honor of the 2012 Congressional Art Competition “An Artistic Discovery” on Thursday, May 3. The reception will begin at 3:30 PM at the Villa Aida Adult Center in Hialeah.“Each year the art competition grants me the opportunity to see the amazing talent and creativity of high school students. We had some incredible pieces last year; I can’t wait to see what the students have prepared this year. I look forward to meeting this year’s participants and congratulating them in person for their outstanding work,” said Diaz-Balart. “I would like to thank the city of Hialeah for their help in organizing this year’s event,” concluded Diaz-Balart. This year marks the 30th Anniversary of the Congressional Art Competition. Congressman Diaz-Balart has invited High Schools from across the 21st District of Florida to participate. This year, 11 schools participated submitting more than 80 pieces of artwork that will be on display during the reception. The winner will be announced in the coming weeks and will have his or her piece displayed in a corridor of the U.S. Capitol for an entire year.The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 as a way to highlight the outstanding artistic talent of the country’s youth. Since then, over 650,000 high school students have participated nationwide. Each spring a winner is selected from each Congressional District in the U.S.WHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart invites students, parents, and teachers to support the talent and creativity of high school studentsWHAT: Congressional Art Competition Reception Highlight the artistic talent of High School students across Miami-Dade and Broward CountiesWHEN: Thursday, May 3 at 3:30 PMWHERE: Villa Aida Adult Center 20 West 6 Street Hialeah, FL 33010 (Parking will be available in the City Hall Garage)
04.25.2012	Washington, D.C.– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to the Supreme Court oral arguments on SB 1070, Arizona’s immigration law. Diaz-Balart comments:“While I strongly disagree with the Arizona law, there is a general consensus that our current immigration system is broken. President Obama promised to tackle immigration reform during his first 12 months as President, three years later Americans feel hopeless and betrayed by the empty promises. President Obama’s failure to deliver on his promises has left states like Arizona to take matters into their own hands. The longer the administration fails to provide leadership on immigration reform, the more likely other states will consider similar legislation.”
04.25.2012	Washington, D.C.– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to the implementation of the IRS new Law Enforcement Assistance Pilot Program, exclusively for the state of Florida. The pilot program is designed to aid law enforcement in obtaining tax returns to investigate and prosecute specific cases of identity theft. Diaz-Balart comments:“After numerous hearings and meetings with the IRS, during which I expressed deep concern with the astounding number of identity theft cases in South Florida, today the IRS responds with the launch of a new pilot program. The new program will help provide answers to the thousands of identity theft victims in the state of Florida, particularly in South Florida. We must ensure the security and safety of hardworking taxpayers; I think this program is a step in the right direction to prevent these heinous crimes from occurring in the future.”Congressman Diaz-Balart testified on a panel in June 2011 held by the Oversight Committee, Subcommittee on Government Organization, Efficiency and Financial Management titled “IRS E-file and Identity Theft.” In the same month, Diaz-Balart met with IRS Commissioner, Doug Shulman to demand more effective measures to be implemented to prevent identity theft. ###
04.24.2012	Washington, D.C.– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to the 2012 Medicare Trustees Report stating that the Social Security fund will be exhausted by 2033 and Medicare in 2024 – few years sooner than previously reported. Diaz-Balart comments:“Today’s report is further proof of the administration’s lack of leadership during these challenging times. The administration has refused to reform, protect, and preserve Social Security and Medicare for the third year in a row. As a result, benefits continue to decline and the programs themselves will be destroyed sooner than what was previously reported. It is an immense irresponsibility on behalf of the administration to continue to ignore the upcoming bankruptcy of these two vital programs, after pledging to reform entitlements and reviewing such daunting reports.“The House passed a budget, with my support, that would secure and strengthen Medicare and Social Security in order to guarantee the promises made to millions of Americans. My hope is that the President and Senate Democrats will get on board and support our legislation after reviewing this latest report.”
04.19.2012	Washington, D.C.– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to the passage of H.R. 9, the Small Business Tax Cut Act of 2012, which provides all small businesses with a 20 percent tax deduction. Diaz-Balart comments:“While small businesses continue to struggle, President Obama continues to insist on job-killing policies like tax hikes and burdensome regulations. We must focus on creating an environment that promotes economic security and opportunity for our nation’s job creators; we do not need tax gimmicks that punish small businesses. My home state of Florida has been hit especially hard with double-digit unemployment rates, and this tax relief is a step in the right direction to encourage job creators to expand and hire.”Click here, to learn how the bill is good news for Florida.
03.30.2012	Miami, FL – Today U.S. Representatives Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Albio Sires (D-NJ), and David Rivera (R-FL) issued a joint statement expressing grave concern for Cuban protester Andres Carrion Alvarez, and calling on human rights groups to demand the release of all political prisoners in Cuba:"Today, we learned the identity of the heroic protester who denounced the Cuban dictatorship with shouts of ‘Freedom!’ and ‘Down with communism!’ during Pope Benedict XVI’s mass in Santiago de Cuba on March 26, 2012. His name is Andres Carrion Alvarez, and he has been missing since we last saw him brutally punched and dragged away by state security agents operating in white uniforms with red crosses designed to resemble humanitarian workers of the Red Cross. But as footage of the incident reveals, there was nothing humanitarian about their mission.“This courageous protester managed to penetrate layers of security designed to prevent potential ‘troublemakers’ from disturbing the propaganda stunt that the regime so carefully orchestrated, along with the shameful collaboration of the hierarchy of the Catholic Church. This man refused to follow that script. We can only imagine the price that he is paying now for expressing his desire for freedom and exposing the sham on an international stage.“We are deeply concerned for the welfare of Andres Carrion Alvarez, and for the welfare of the thousands of other pro-democracy activists who were arrested during the Pope’s visit to Cuba. We call on human rights groups such as Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch to monitor his case, and to bring international attention to the arrests of other activists during the Pope’s visit in Cuba. We urge them to demand the immediate release of Andres Carrion Alvarez, and to call for the release of all of Cuba’s political prisoners.“We stand with Cuba's brave opposition which is growing in numbers and resolve despite relentless repression by Castro's thugs. We are witnessing ever more calls for liberty by the Cuban people. They have suffered decades under tyranny, but their day of freedom is coming.”
03.29.2012	Washington, D.C.– Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) issued the following statement on the passage of the FY 2013 Budget, championed by Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI). Diaz-Balart comments:“I applaud Chairman Ryan for his leadership and for providing a budget with real and responsible solutions that tackle our debt crisis. House Republicans are advancing a budget that consists of real spending disciple and restored economic freedom, patient-centered health care reform, and pro-growth tax reform. This budget will steer us away from the current path of out-of-control spending and bankruptcy.“The President’s budget, on the other hand, ignores the biggest challenge facing our country by proposing the fourth trillion dollar deficit and the single largest tax increase in our history. Americans know it is irresponsible to spend money we do not have; it is unacceptable for President Obama to insist on more borrowing from other countries, including communist China.“I am proud to have voted for legislation that builds up our great nation, making it stronger and more stable for current and future generations.”
03.27.2012	Washington, D.C.– Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) proposed the “FFC FOIA Transparency” amendment. It was adopted and included in H.R. 3309, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Reform Act of 2012. Diaz-Balart’s amendment would require the FCC to implement new policies and practices to promote greater public disclosure of how the agency handles the Freedom of Information Act (“FOIA”) requests.“My amendment was in response to overwhelming data demonstrating the FCC’s apparent lack of transparency and openness with the American people. In FY 2011, the FCC denied more than 46% of the FOIA requests it processed, compared to about 7% across the entire federal government.“President Obama and Chairman Genachowski have publicly stated that they will be the most open and transparent administration in history, which is a goal I think we all share. My amendment will provide accountability and shed light on controversies like the one dealing with LightSquared, which appears to have political ties.“Requiring the FCC to take additional steps will help bring the agency in line with its responsibilities for openness, transparency, and public disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act. More importantly, these steps will give the American public confidence that the FCC is responsive to requests made by citizens and is in fact sharing information the public is entitled to receive.”
03.09.2012	Washington, D.C.– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement commending the Florida House Legislature for passing HB 959 (companion to SB 1144), State and Local Government Relations with Cuba or Syria bill. Diaz-Balart comments: "I commend the Florida Legislature for passing the ‘State and Local Government Relations with Cuba or Syria’ bill,” said Diaz-Balart. This bill prevents Florida’s agencies and local governments from contracting for $1 million or more with companies that do business with Cuba and Syria, two U.S.-designated State Sponsors of Terrorism. “I want to particularly thank State Representative Michael Bileca for introducing the bill, State Senator Rene Garcia, Speaker Dean Cannon, Senate President Mike Haridopolos, Majority Leader Carlos Lopez-Cantera, and Senator JD Alexander for their laudable efforts to pass this important legislation,” added Diaz-Balart.This critical legislation would prohibit Florida’s State Board of Administration, which manages nearly $150 billion in state assets, from supporting an expansion of trade with Cuba or Syria. The bill also requires the termination of state and local government contracts with businesses that partner with Cuba or Syria. “This legislation is an important measure to prevent state funds from propping up the dictators of terrorist states who ruthlessly oppress their own people," concluded Diaz-Balart.
03.01.2012	Washington, D.C.– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to Communist China’s plans to repatriate refugees to the oppressive regime in North Korea and the protest by South Korean National Assemblywoman Park Sum-Young. “Once again, the North Korean regime has promised to ‘discuss’ the halt of its nuclear weapons activities. After nearly two decades of empty promises during the previous administrations, we must not be duped again. The real outcomes of these endless talks have been no change on North Korea's nuclear ambitions, nor any progress on human rights. North Korea remains just as committed to developing a nuclear weapons program and abusing the fundamental rights of its citizens as ever."“Today, Communist China is preparing to forcibly repatriate North Korean refugees to the brutal, repressive regime in North Korea. If returned, these refugees will face certain torture and possible death. It is unconscionable that anyone, even the soulless Politburo of Communist China, would decide to subject these brave refugees to such inhumanity.“I have seen that a courageous legislator from South Korea, Rep. Park Sun-young of South Korea’s Liberty Forward Party, has been on a hunger strike for more than a week to call attention to Communist China’s plan to forcibly repatriate those North Korean refugees. She has spearheaded an effective “Save Our Friend” campaign to draw international attention to this pending travesty, and has introduced a resolution signed by twenty-nine South Korean lawmakers condemning Communist China’s plans to repatriate the refugees. “I urge my parliamentarian colleagues around the world, at every opportunity, to raise the precarious plight of refugees who attempt to flee the dark tyranny of the North Korean regime. The penalties for leaving are unfathomable to most of us who live in freedom, but they range from torture, execution of the refugee and his family ‘within three generations,’ and impressment into human trafficking. “For North Koreans who attempt to escape their peninsular prison, the consequences of forced repatriation are too horrific for any nation – even Communist China – to facilitate.”
02.29.2012	Washington, D.C.– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to the plans by Galway’s City Council to erect a memorial to mass murderer Ernesto “Che” Guevara in Galway, Ireland.“Galway is a city where people have the right to vote, the right to worship freely, the right to speak freely, and access a free press– all of which “Che” Guevara and his murderous associate, dictator Fidel Castro, ruthlessly suppressed. Having a memorial to this cruel assassin is a shameful affront to the thousands of Cubans he murdered and utterly ignores the truth of who “Che” Guevara actually was,” said Diaz-Balart.“Che” Guevara was a merciless executioner who reveled in the murder of men, women and children in cold blood. His own words betray his appalling sadism:“We reject any peaceful approach. Violence is inevitable. To establish Socialism rivers of blood must flow. The victory of Socialism is well worth millions of atomic victims!”“In fact, if Christ himself stood in my way, I, like Nietzsche, would not hesitate to squish him like a worm.”“My nostrils dilate while savoring the acrid odor of gunpowder and blood... Crazy with fury I will stain my rifle red while slaughtering any surrendered enemy that falls in my hands!”“A memorial to this despicable individual is a shameful slap in the face to the victims, whose lives he so ruthlessly extinguished, their families, and the millions of Cubans who still suffer under the effects of his deplorable acts. I am confident that if the people of Galway know the well-documented horrors inflicted by “Che” Guevara, they will be disgusted by the prospect of erecting a monument to that monster.
02.23.2012	Washington, DC– Los Congresistas Mario Díaz-Balart, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Albio Sires, y David Rivera hicieron las siguientes declaraciones conmemorando el segundo aniversario de la muerte de un héroe Cubano, Orlando Zapata Tamayo que dio la vida por la libertad de Cuba.Orlando Zapata Tamayo fue el fundador del Movimiento Alternativa Republicana y miembro del Consejo Nacional de Resistencia Cívica. Por sus acciones en contra del régimen, fue detenido varias veces; la última detención fue el 20 de marzo de 2003, durante la “Primavera Negra” cuando hacia una huelga de hambre en la Fundación Jesús Yánez Pelletier, para demandar la liberación del doctor Oscar Biscet y otros presos políticos. Durante sus años en prisión, sufrió palizas, humillaciones y largos períodos de confinamiento en solitario. El 3 de diciembre de 2009, comenzó otra huelga de hambre para condenar las inhumanas condiciones de la prisión y en protesta a las arbitrarias modificaciones de su sentencia. Durante ese tiempo, se le privó de agua y desarrollo neumonía después de haber sido mantenido desnudo debajo de un aire acondicionado, aun enfermo. Murió a manos del régimen de Castro el 23 de febrero de 2010.Declaración de Diaz-Balart:"En el segundo aniversario de su muerte continuamos honrando la memoria de Orlando Zapata Tamayo y la de tantos otros valientes cubanos que han dado su vida por la patria. El espíritu y el ejemplo de Zapata Tamayo han fortalecido la lucha por la libertad de Cuba. Después de su muerte, otros presos políticos, inspirados en su ejemplo, comenzaron huelgas de hambre, una organización opositora al régimen tomó su nombre y el mundo entero lo ha reconocido como un símbolo de la lucha contra el totalitarismo. El régimen dictatorial nos arrebató un gran líder, pero su memoria durará por siempre como un testimonio más de los horrores del régimen asesino y moribundo de los hermanos Castro. "Declaración de Ros-Lehtinen:"Hace dos años, un valiente activista pro democrático, Orlando Zapata Tamayo, falleció luchando por la libertad y los derechos humanos en Cuba. Como tantos otros, Tamayo murió antes de ver realizado su sueño de una Cuba libre. Sin embargo, todos podemos encontrar consuelo y orgullo por sus contribuciones a la causa por la cual tantos han muerto, y muchos siguen luchando. El sacrificio de Tamayo, y los sacrificios de todos aquéllos que se niegan aceptar una Cuba esclavizada han llevado al pueblo cubano por un camino que finalmente conducirá a la libertad".Declaración de Sires:"Dos años han pasado desde que el mundo perdió a Orlando Zapata Tamayo. El régimen de Castro se ha negado a cambiar, pero la lucha de Zapata por la libertad y su legado no serán olvidados. Todos los que creen en la justicia y los derechos humanos siguen lamentando la pérdida de Orlando Zapata Tamayo, y seguiremos contando su historia y hablando de los horrores en Cuba. Vamos a seguir apoyando a los cubanos en su lucha por la libertad. "Declaración de Rivera:“Hace dos años, la causa para una Cuba libre y democrática perdió un líder y un patriota cuando falleció Orlando Zapata Tamayo. Murió como consecuencia del brutalmente opresivo régimen Castrista, después de estar 85 días en huelga de hambre denunciando los abusos de los derechos humanos y la falta de derechos civiles en la isla. En el tiempo desde la muerte de Zapata Tamayo, hemos visto un aumento en el acoso y la persecución de disidentes pacíficos, que ha resultado en la muerte de la fundadora de las Damas de Blanco Laura Pollán y el activista WIlman Villar Mendoza. Sin embargo, mientras que la sangre de estos valientes disidentes esta en las manos de los hermanos Castro, el legado de Orlando Zapata Tamayo vive en los esfuerzos de los grupos de resistencia cívica por toda la isla que están luchando en contra del régimen con la esperanza de algún día lograr la libertad y la democracia para el pueblo cubano”.
02.23.2012	Washington, D.C.– U.S. Representatives Mario Diaz-Balart, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Albio Sires, and David Rivera released the following statements recognizing the two-year anniversary of the death of pro-democracy hero, Orlando Zapata Tamayo.Orlando Zapata Tamayo was a member of the pro-democracy organizations Movimiento Alternativa Republicana and the Consejo Nacional de Resistencia Civica. Hewas arrested several times by the Castro regime, the last arrest occurred on March 20, 2003 during Cuba’s notorious “Black Spring.” During his many years in prison, he suffered beatings, humiliation, and long periods of solitary confinement. On December 3, 2009, he began a hunger strike to protest abhorrent prison conditions and arbitrary extensions of his sentences. During that time, he was deprived of water and ultimately developed pneumonia after being kept naked underneath an air conditioner. Zapata Tamayo died at the hands of the Castro regime on February 23, 2010. Statement by Diaz-Balart:“We continue to lament the loss of Orlando Zapata Tamayo, and the senseless deaths of so many other brave activists, yet his spirit and mission have strengthened Cuba’s courageous pro-democracy movement. Immediately following his death, other political prisoners picked up his cause and began hunger strikes of their own, renamed a pro-democracy organization in his honor, and many recognize Zapata Tamayo as a symbol of perseverance in the face of crushing totalitarianism. The regime robbed the world of a remarkable and courageous leader but his memory will outlast the horrors of the dying Castro regime. He will always be remembered as a hero who helped lead Cuba into freedom.”Statement by Ros-Lehtinen:“Two years ago, a brave Cuban patriot, Orlando Zapata Tamayo, died while standing up for freedom and human rights in Cuba. Like so many others, Tamayo passed away before seeing his dream of a free Cuba realized. However, we can all find solace and pride in his contributions to the cause for which so many have died, and so many continue to struggle. Tamayo’s sacrifice, and the sacrifices of all those who refuse to accept an imprisoned Cuba, have helped the Cuban people up a path which will eventually lead to liberty.”Statement by Sires:“It has been two years since the world lost Orlando Zapata Tamayo. Although the Castro regime has refused to change, Zapata’s struggle for freedom and the legacy he left behind have not been forgotten. All those who believe in justice and basic human rights continue to mourn the loss of Orlando Zapata Tamayo, and we will continue to tell his story and tell of the horrors in Cuba. We will continue to stand with the Cuban people in their fight for freedom.”Statement by Rivera:“Two years ago, the cause of a free and democratic Cuba lost a leader and a patriot with the death of Orlando Zapata Tamayo. He died at the hands of the brutally oppressive Castro regime, after 85 days on a hunger strike denouncing human rights abuses and the lack of civil rights on the island. In the time since Zapata Tamayo’s death, we have seen increased harassment and persecution of peaceful dissidents, resulting in the deaths of Ladies in White Founder Laura Pollán and activist WIlman Villar Mendoza. However, while the blood of these brave dissidents is on the hands of the Castro brothers, Orlando Zapata Tamayo’s legacy lives on in the civil resistance efforts of groups all over the island who are protesting the regime’s repression in the hopes of one day achieving freedom and democracy for the Cuban people.”
02.21.2012	Washington, D.C.– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) issued the following statement congratulating Miami Palmetto Senior High School for winning the South Florida High School Science Bowl on Saturday. Miami Palmetto Senior High School competed against 32 other teams from across the region in one of the nation’s regional competitions of the 22nd Annual U.S. Department of Energy National Science Bowl, and is now eligible to compete in the National Finals in Washington, D.C. at the end of April.“It gives me immense pleasure to know that the students at Miami Palmetto Senior High School won the regional Science Bowl competition. Congratulations to the students and teachers for their hard work, winning the regional competition is a splendid achievement. I am extremely proud of these young leaders, and encourage each of them to continue competing and challenging themselves.“I am confident these students will represent South Florida proudly in the final competition. I look forward to having them visit our nation’s Capitol and wish them the best of luck in the finals,” said Diaz-Balart.Note: The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) National Science Bowl is a nationwide academic competition that tests students' knowledge in all areas of science. High school and middle school students are quizzed in a fast-paced question-and-answer format similar to Jeopardy. Competing teams from diverse backgrounds are comprised of four students, one alternate, and a teacher who serves as an advisor and coach. The DOE created the National Science Bowl in 1991 to encourage students to excel in math and science and to pursue careers in these fields. For more information, click here.
02.17.2012	Washington, D.C.– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) issued the following statement in response to the third anniversary of President Obama’s failed $1.2 trillion ‘stimulus’ bill. Diaz-Balart comments:“A recap of the past three years: over $800 billion borrowed and spent, 12 million Americans still looking for work, unemployment above 8 percent, and 3.5 promised jobs are still M.I.A. The facts speak for themselves, the ‘stimulus’ has been a dismal failure. Promises made to the American people can officially be declared broken, if not shattered. The spending frenzy has left Obama with no jobs record of his own and consequently, has resorted to politics of envy and division. He went from being the candidate of ‘Hope and Change,’ to the President of division through class warfare rhetoric, and deception through recycled gimmicks in his budget.“If anything, the past three years is a lesson to President Obama and all who voted for the ‘stimulus’ on what NOT to do during a recession. While most seem to have learned, President Obama insists on the same recipe by offering another budget that spends too much and imposes a large tax hike on small businesses and families. Mr. President, the American people are asking for a new recipe, new results – it is time you listen. House Republicans have even started you off by passing more than 20 bipartisan jobs bills that will get Americans back to work, all you have to do is tell Senator Harry Reid to stop blocking the bills.”
02.02.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) introduced a resolution in the U.S. House of Representatives condemning the murder of Wilman Villar Mendoza and honoring his sacrifice in the cause of freedom for the Cuban people.“Wilman Villar Mendoza was a pro-democracy activist in the Cuban Patriotic Union; he was also a husband and father of two young children. On January 19, 2012, he died at the hands of the brutal Castro tyranny after undergoing a hunger strike for protesting beatings, inhumane treatment, and abhorrent prison conditions. His “crime” was daring to demand basic human rights and liberty for the Cuban people. For that, he was arrested on November 14, 2011 and sentenced to four years in prison.“This resolution is a tribute to Villar Mendoza, to the many other precious lives that have been lost throughout the Cuban people’s daily struggle against tyranny. I honor their sacrifices, and will continue to fight for the cause of a free Cuba so that the Castro dictatorship never again robs the life of another hero.”Click here to read the resolution.
02.02.2012	Washington, DC– El Congresista Mario Díaz-Balart presentó una Resolución en la Cámara de Representantes de EE.UU. condenando el asesinato de Wilman Mendoza Villar y honrando su sacrificio por la causa de la libertad de Cuba.“Wilman Mendoza Villar, esposo y padre de dos hijas pequeñas, era miembro de la Unión Patriótica de Cuba. El 19 de enero de 2012 murió a manos de la brutal tiranía cubana después de una huelga de hambre donde se le negó agua y cuidado médico. Su supuesto delito fue atreverse a reclamar los derechos humanos y la libertad del pueblo cubano. Por eso fue detenido el 14 de noviembre de 2011 y condenado a cuatro años de prisión.“Esta resolución es un homenaje al sacrificio de Villar Mendoza y los miles de héroes que han dado la vida por la libertad Cuba. Seguiré luchando por la causa de la libertad del pueblo cubano, para evitar que la dictadura siga asesinado a los héroes de Cuba.”Lea la resolución completa aquí
01.20.2012	Washington, DC- El Congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (R-FL) hizo la siguiente declaración inmediatamente después de conocer el lamentable fallecimiento de Wilman Villar Mendoza."Hoy lamentamos la pérdida de otro valiente héroe cubano, Wilman Villar Mendoza, quien murió a manos de la cruel dictadura de los hermanos Castro.“Villar Mendoza, miembro de la Unión Patriótica de Cuba, perdió la vida por hacer valer su derecho a protestar por la creciente ola de represión impuesta por la dictadura. Después de su arresto el 14 de noviembre de 2011, Mendoza Villar comenzó una huelga de hambre que duró más de 50 días y muere en el hospital Juan Bruno Zayas en Santiago de Cuba. Esta es otra víctima del régimen castrista que, haciendo gala de su naturaleza criminal, había ignorado el delicado estado de salud de este valiente opositor y bloqueado el hospital para impedir que sus seguidores y familiares lo visitaran.“La muerte de este joven opositor se suma a la larga lista de crímenes del régimen y demuestra la falsedad y el cinismo de las supuestas reformas de Castro. A sólo dos años del asesinato de Orlando Zapata Tamayo y a pocos meses del asesinato de Laura Pollán, le exigimos al Presidente Obama que cese en su empeño de darle más y más concesiones unilaterales al régimen. Es una verdadera vergüenza que esta administración haya optado por ayudar a los tiranos, por financiar al régimen y por ser totalmente indolente ante el sufrimiento del pueblo.“Sr. Presidente, el pueblo cubano merece su solidaridad y apoyo. Sr. Presidente, la libertad del pueblo cubano es inminente. Cuando Cuba sea libre y soberana y haya dejado atrás esta etapa sombría de su historia, el pueblo cubano recordará a sus amigos y a sus enemigos.“Mis oraciones están con Wilman Villar Mendoza, su esposa Maritza Cabrales Pelegrino, sus pequeños hijos y con todos los valientes opositores que han sufrido en carne propia los abusos del régimen. Nunca olvidaremos el sacrificio de todos los que han dado la vida por la libertad de Cuba. Que Dios los bendiga a todos".
01.20.2012	Washington, D.C.– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following in response to the death of Cuba’s courageous hero, Wilman Villar Mendoza. Diaz-Balart comments:"Today, we mourn the loss of another one of Cuba's courageous heroes, Wilman Villar Mendoza, who died at the hands of the ruthless Castro regime.“Villar Mendoza, part of the Patriotic Union of Cuba, ultimately lost his life for daring to protest the Castro regime's increased repression. After his arrest on November 14, 2011, Villar Mendoza began a hunger strike that lasted more than 50 days. While in a coma, dying of pneumonia in the Juan Bruno Zayas hospital in Santiago, the Castro regime reportedly locked down the hospital to prevent supporters from visiting him and his family until he died.“The Castro regime once again has revealed its true nature and has precious, innocent blood on its hands. It has not yet been two years since the regime murdered another hero, Orlando Zapata Tamayo, for similarly expressing his opposition to repression. These deaths are the results of Castro’s reforms.“Soon, Cuba's real criminals will have to account for these crimes. Until then, President Obama must cease rewarding the regime's human rights abuses with unilateral concessions in the form of eased sanctions that channel hard currency to Castro's thugs. It is shameful that this administration has chosen to assist the Cuban people's oppressors in the face of such relentless, unabashed brutality. When the dictatorship finally fades to a grim aberration in Cuban history -- as it inevitably will -- the Cuban people will remember their friends. Sadly, the current administration is not a friend to the long-suffering Cuban people when it appeases and assists their abusers. Mr. President, the Cuban people deserve better.“My prayers are with Wilman Villar Mendoza, his wife Maritza Pelegrino Cabrales, his young children, and the brave activists that have suffered unspeakable brutality for expressing their solidarity with them. Villar Mendoza forever will be a blessing to the Cuban people in their struggle against tyranny, and we must never forget his sacrifice. God bless his soul.”
01.18.2012	Washington, D.C.– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to a meeting with Daimler External Affairs and Public Policy representatives. The meeting was in response to Daimler AG, the German company that manufactures Mercedes-Benz cars using a ruthless, corrupt mass murderer, Ernesto “Che” Guevara and slogan “Viva la Revolucion!,” during a promotional presentation at the International Consumer Electronics Show. Below are excerpts from the letter Congressman Diaz-Balart sent to Dr. Dieter Zetsche, Chairman of the Board of Mercedes-Benz Cars.While I appreciate that Mercedes-Benz issued an apology for its patently insensitive use of his so-called “revolutionary” image, that apology clearly indicates that Mercedes-Benz yet fails to realize the magnitude of the pain – beyond mere “offense” - that the mistake has caused. Any effect that your marketing scheme may have in elevating the grossly undeserving “Che” Guevara as an icon of popular culture is an affront to his victims, whose lives he so ruthlessly extinguished, their families, and the millions of Cubans who still suffer under the effects of his despicable acts. Trotting out the image of that odious executioner for something as trite as an advertising plan does a tremendous disservice to the truth of who “Che” Guevara was and the evil that he represents.“Che” Guevara was a sadistic executioner who reveled in bloodshed and violence, and who wished for the annihilation of the United States through nuclear war. It is absolutely reprehensible that Mercedes-Benz would use the image of that cruel monster and the slogan “Viva la Revolucion!,” which evokes horrific memories for so many, as part of a feeble, unscrupulous attempt to sell cars. I am appalled that Mercedes-Benz would choose to associate itself with such depravity. To prevent this from occurring again, I respectfully request that you ensure that your executives and employees fully appreciate the facts surrounding the historical figures that Mercedes-Benz promotes in its marketing strategies.Proof that ‘Che’ Guevara was a murderous, racist character is evident not only in the annals of history, but also in his own words:“To send men to the firing squad, judicial proof is unnecessary … These procedures are an archaic bourgeois detail. This is a revolution!”“In fact, if Christ himself stood in my way, I, like Nietzsche, would not hesitate to squish him like a worm.”“The Negro? is indolent and spends his money on frivolities, whereas the European is forward-looking, organized and intelligent... We're going to do for blacks exactly what blacks did for the Cuban revolution. By which I mean: nothing!“The U.S. is the great enemy of mankind! Against those hyenas there is no option but extermination! If the nuclear missiles had remained [in Cuba] we would have fired them against the heart of the U.S. including New York City!”NOTE: Click Here, to view a full copy of the letter sent to Dr. Dieter Zetsche, Chairman of the Board of Daimler AG and Mercedes-Benz Cars
01.18.2012	Washington, D.C.– El Congresista Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) y sus colegas del Subcomité de Relaciones Exteriores sostuvieron una reunión esta tarde con el Rey Abdullah II de Jordania. El Congresista Diaz-Balart se reunió también, por primera vez, con el nuevo Embajador Perú, Harold Forsyth, encuentro que tuvo lugar en su oficina en Washington. Izquieda a derecha: Embajador de Perú, Harold Forsyth Rey Abdullah II de Jordania en el Subcomité y Congresista Mario Diaz-Balart de Relaciones Exteriores “Durante la reunión con el Embajador de Perú, Harold Forsyth, tuve la oportunidad de conversar con él sobre la necesidad de continuar nuestra lucha por los derechos humanos y la democracia en nuestro hemisferio, así como también otros temas de gran interés para la comunidad peruana que vive en Estados Unidos y que tanto ha aportado a nuestro país. “Jordania es la clave para empezar el proceso de paz en el Medio Oriente. Jordania ha sido un gran aliado de los Estados Unidos y seguiremos trabajando juntos para beneficio de ambos países.” ####
01.18.2012	Washington, D.C.– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to President Obama’s decision to officially reject the Keystone XL pipeline. Diaz-Balart comments:“Today President Obama not only placed his job first, but denied jobs to tens of thousands of Americans. By rejecting the Keystone pipeline project, the administration’s true priorities are revealed and job creation fails to make the list. Regardless of a new year, we get the same dismal economic policies coming from the White House. If President Obama cared half as much about creating jobs for the American people as he does for his own, unemployment would not be above 8.5% for over 35 months.“While the White House gives his supporters taxpayer-guaranteed loans for their ‘green’ energy firms, he denies a privately owned company the right to create jobs and secure natural resources for the American people at a cheaper price. It is mind-boggling that the President’s political decision to reject the project comes even after his own Jobs Council endorsed the project. I urge the President to reconsider his rejection on jobs before the jobs go overseas.”
01.17.2012	Miami, FL- Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement honoring the life of Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr., and all prisoners of conscience who are denied their basic human rights. Diaz-Balart comments:"On the day that we honor the life of visionary civil rights leader Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr., we must be reminded of all prisoners of conscience who continue to languish in prison for exercising their God-given right of expression. "Today, such a courageous activist -- Wilman Villar Mendoza of the Patriotic Union of Cuba -- is near death in the Juan Bruno Zayas hospital in Santiago de Cuba. After his arrest on November 14, 2011 in Contramaestra, Santiago de Cuba for protesting the dictatorship's increased violent repression, Villar Mendoza began a hunger strike that lasted more than 50 days. When the regime's thugs demanded that his wife Maritza Pelegrino Cabrales abandon the Ladies in White, she bravely refused and repeated her husband's declaration, "Either dead, or in freedom.""In solidarity with Wilman Villar Mendoza, other pro-democracy activists in Cuba prayed for him and declared, ‘We cannot allow another Orlando Zapata Tamayo.’ I join them in praying for the health and strength of Villar Mendoza, for his wife and young daughters, and for the activists who have suffered arrests and brutal beatings for supporting them. Any harm that these activists suffer is the direct result of the depraved Castro dictatorship, which already has the blood of heroes on its hands. "The day is drawing closer when Cuba's real criminals will be held accountable for their atrocities. Until then, we must condemn this outrageous injustice and demand that Cuba's pro-democracy activists are not threatened with death for the simple act of expressing their beliefs. Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr. said, ‘The ultimate measure of a man is not where he stands in moments of comfort and convenience, but where he stands at times of challenge and controversy.’ By that measure, members of Cuba's pro-democracy movement like Wilman Villar Mendoza are true heroes."
01.13.2012	Miami, FL– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will attend the 42nd Anniversary of the Three Kings Day Parade on Sunday, January 15. The parade, one of the top five Hispanic events in the country, starts at noon in the Heart of Little Havana, “Calle Ocho.” Diaz-Balart comments:“I look forward to participating in the Three Kings Day Parade this year; it is a great time for our community to come together and celebrate one of the oldest Hispanic events in the country. I encourage everyone to come out on Sunday and support this grand tradition. “I would like to thank Univision for their hard work in sponsoring, promoting, and producing the parade each year. We recognize and admire their commitment to South Florida and the Hispanic community.”
01.13.2012	Miami, FL– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) called for the immediate release of democracy activists Ivonne Malleza Galano, Ignacio Martínez Montejo, and Isabel Hayde Alvarez Mosqueda, who were brutally detained on November 30, 2011 for protesting Cuba's crushing hunger and poverty in Havana’s Fraternity Park. Ivonne Malleza Galano and Isabel Hayde Alvarez Mosqueda are held in the infamous Manto Negro prison; Ignacio Martinez Montejo is currently imprisoned in the Combinado del Este prison. Last month, Amnesty International condemned their arrest and called on the regime to recognize the basic freedoms of expression, association and assembly for all Cubans.“The imprisonment of Ladies in White member Ivonne Malleza Galano, her husband Ignacio Martínez Montejo, and pro-democracy activist Isabel Hayde Alvarez Mosqueda is another appalling reminder of the marked depravity of the Cuban regime. The United States and the international community should demonstrate unwavering solidarity with the Cuban people and they should show particular solidarity with these brave prisoners of conscience.“Despite escalating repression, the people of Cuba are showing an increasing tenacity in the face of tyranny. In fact, reportedly a crowd of observers to the protest in Havana intervened to try to prevent Castro’s thugs from arresting the activists. Now is the time to support Cuba’s growing freedom movement by calling attention to the injustice of their imprisonment and cutting off the Castro regime from any financial, rhetorical or moral support. The brave opposition deserves our unequivocal commendation for their struggle to secure basic freedoms, and they should have our committed refusal to bolster their oppressors with U.S. dollars and unilateral concessions. Certainly, the Cuban people deserve no less.”
01.11.2012	Washington, D.C.– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement as Iran’s Mahmoud Ahmadinejad continues on his "Hate America" tour in Latin America. Diaz-Balart comments:“Ahmadinejad’s trip is a grave reminder of how corrupt and ruthless leaders respond to concessions and negotiations. President Obama's lack of leadership and appeasement of America’s enemies has only aided this “party of bullies” in the pursuit of violent aspirations, oppression of their own people, and opposition to U.S. interests across the globe.”“Today, Ahmadinejad will be just ninety miles from our shores, smiling and shaking hands with Castro's thugs, as political prisoners are tortured, beaten, and murdered for demanding their basic human rights. The Cuban people deserve better, so does Alan Gross, an American citizen who has been unjustly held by the Castro regime since December 2009.”"Now is the time to tighten sanctions against these two U.S.-designated State Sponsors of Terrorism and do all we can to isolate them from the financial and rhetorical support that fuels their frightening ambitions. They are once again advertising their nefarious plans on a global stage. It's about time that we heed their message and treat them like the enemies that they are."
01.09.2012	Washington, D.C.– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement regarding Iran’s Mahmoud Ahmadinejad visit to Venezuela, Nicaragua, Cuba, and Ecuador. Diaz-Balart comments:“Ahmadinejad’s visit to Latin America must not be taken lightly. As he meets with ruthless, anti-democratic heads of state, who threaten democracy, disregard the rule of law, and violate human rights, the U.S. must remain vigilant. Yet, President Obama seems to think otherwise as he continues to appease and negotiate with our enemies, while criticizing our allies. This trip indicates that our enemies no longer worry how the U.S. will respond due to the lack of leadership from our Commander-in-Chief.“The trip consists of meetings with like-minded leaders who continuously attempt to undermine the security of the U.S., Israel, and our European allies. Ahmadinejad's visit is more disturbing evidence of Iran's increasing boldness in opposing U.S. interests and bolstering its axis of anti-American alliances in our hemisphere. Iran has reportedly set up its Latin American hub in Cuba, and has bailed out the Cuban regime with lines of credit. These terrorist states are united by the tyrannical oppression of their own people, their abysmal human rights records, extensive espionage activities abroad, support of international acts of terrorism, and their abject hatred of America.“The people of Venezuela, Nicaragua, Cuba, and Ecuador deserve the same liberties and freedoms we so greatly enjoy on a daily basis; we must stand with them, they deserve no less.“I urge President Obama to reconsider his failed foreign policy of giving our enemies concessions, while they convict Americans to death or hold them hostage. The close relationship between these ruthless tyrants should remind the free world of the far-reaching threat of Iran's dangerous ambitions. If Iran achieves its nuclear goals, only a fool could expect that the technology would remain confined within Iran's borders. Ahmadinejad's "Hate America" tour is a grave warning of how close, and how imminent, Iran's threat truly is."
12.18.2011	Miami, FL– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to Former President Vaclav Havel’s passing. Diaz-Balart comments:“I was deeply saddened to learn of the death of President Vaclav Havel. I send my heartfelt condolences to his family and to the people of the Czech Republic for this terrible loss.“Through his leadership that helped to spark the Czech Republic’s Velvet Revolution, and his solidarity with those who struggle against repression throughout the world, President Havel was a true hero. He became an icon of freedom which helped to spark the tremendous transformation in Eastern Europe.“A former political prisoner himself, President Havel was particularly attuned to the sufferings of pro-democracy leaders in Cuba who often are brutally beaten, harassed, imprisoned, and some even murdered by the dictatorship. He called on the international community to demonstrate solidarity with the Cuban people by avoiding tourism travel to Cuba so long as egregious human rights abuses continued. He said, “I cannot go to Cuba to relax on the beach and keep my eyes shut, while dozens of political prisoners are behind bars there.” He also worked extensively with the International Committee for Democracy in Cuba which brought together leaders from around the world to support freedom for the Cuban people.“There will never be another Vaclav Havel. With his passing, we have lost a great advocate for freedom. His life will forever be an inspiration to those whose hope for freedom cannot be crushed and who continue the difficult struggle against tyranny. God bless President Havel.”
12.16.2011	Washington, D.C.– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to the final fiscal year (FY) 2012 Appropriations bill. Diaz-Balart comments:“President Obama’s willingness to shut down the United States government to appease a U.S.-designated State Sponsor of Terrorism is appalling and inexcusable. I hope that the American people see that President Obama would deny Americans essential services, halt checks to our seniors and veterans rather than reverse one aspect of his failed policy toward Cuba. “During a full House Appropriations committee markup, I proposed an amendment that passed with bipartisan support. The approved language has been publicly available since June and was included in the conference report– then later stripped out. The language was not inserted secretly, it was not a surprise, nor the result of sly political gamesmanship.“The amendment aimed to reverse some of the Obama administration’s most egregious unilateral concessions to the terrorist regime in Cuba. The amendment would replace some of the Obama administration's regulations on Cuban-American travel and remittances with the common-sense regulations that were in place before President Obama took office. While the regime continues to hold hostage American humanitarian aid worker Alan Gross, political prisoners are tormented and some murdered, and repression on the island intensifies, I simply could not stand idly by as the Obama policies channeled millions of U.S. dollars to the Cuban people’s oppressors. This is a freedom issue, a national security issue, and a human rights issue.“This Commander-In-Chief has established a clear and dangerous foreign policy pattern throughout his presidency: appeasing our enemies and condemning our allies. We have seen it through his insistence of engagement with Iran, failing miserably as Iran chooses to become a nuclear power. As Obama tries to “reset” relations with Russia, they respond with threats and conduct fraudulent elections. While President Obama chooses to apologize for the U.S. or give concessions to our enemies, our allies are left to fend for themselves. From publicly criticizing our staunch ally, Israel; siding with Communist China on the arm sales to Taiwan; cancelling a Polish- and Czech-based U.S. missile defense system; to deliberately delaying the passage of the Colombia Free Trade Agreement, this administration continues on a reckless foreign policy.“I am extremely disappointed that Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, who had agreed with the language, later backtracked and succumbed to pressure from the administration.“It’s an embarrassment that a U.S. President would put our government in jeopardy of a shut down and sell out the longsuffering Cuban people to appease the ruthless Castro dictatorship. President Obama, once again, reveals his true self: appeaser-in-chief.”
12.12.2011	WASHINGTON/BRUSSELS – In a unique demonstration of transatlantic solidarity, U.S. Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and Member of the European Parliament, Antonio López-Istúriz (EPP-Spain), issued a joint statement today denouncing Nicaragua’s November 6 elections, and called on both the United States and European Union to take immediate action.“The November 6 presidential and congressional elections showed a blatant disregard for democratic principles” said López-Istúriz, who also serves as the Secretary General of the European People’s Party (EPP). “Beginning with the unconstitutional candidacy of Daniel Ortega and ending with the prevention of independent observers, the electoral process was partial, exclusionary and fraudulent. The lack of transparency leaves the election results unverifiable. The international community should not let the results stand without accountability.”“From both sides of the Atlantic, we call on the international community to stand united in denouncing the actions of leaders who manipulate democratic institutions for personal gain. The international community should be equally forceful in encouraging the Nicaraguan Government to adhere to its laws, comply fully with Nicaragua’s commitment to the Inter-American Democratic Charter, and respect the right of the Nicaraguan people to participate in a fair, transparent and accountable electoral process.”“The EPP Secretary General and I will be seeking support from our respective legislatures to condemn and highlight the trampling of democracy, and calling on our colleagues and governments to leverage American and European influence to stand up for the Nicaraguan people,” said Diaz-Balart. “They deserve no less.”
12.01.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to President Obama’s statement regarding Israel on Wednesday, during a political fundraiser in New York. Diaz-Balart comments:“President Obama was quoted saying, ‘I try not to pat myself too much on the back, but this administration has done more for the security of the state of Israel than any previous administration.’ Does the President not recall the events of the past two years?President Obama must have forgotten the following facts, previously reported in the Wall Street Journal:September 2009: During a U.N. General Assembly, President Obama declared, “America does not accept the legitimacy of continued Israeli settlements.” The speech concluded without a single criticism of Palestinian terrorism.March 2010: During Vice President Joe Biden's visit to Israel, a Jerusalem municipal office announced plans for new construction in a part of Jerusalem. The president launched an unprecedented weeks-long offensive against Israel. Mr. Biden very publicly departed Israel.Secretary of State Hillary Clinton berated Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on a now-infamous 45-minute phone call, telling him that Israel had "harmed the bilateral relationship." The Israeli ambassador was dressed-down at the State Department, Mr. Obama's Middle East envoy canceled his trip to Israel, and the U.S. joined the European condemnation of Israel.Moments after Mr. Biden concluded his visit to the West Bank, the Palestinian Authority held a ceremony to honor Dalal Mughrabi, who led one of the deadliest Palestinian terror attacks in history: the so-called Coastal Road Massacre that killed 38, including 13 children and an American. The Obama administration was silent. But that same day, on ABC, Mr. Axelrod called Israel's planned construction of apartments in its own capital an "insult" and an "affront" to the United States. Press Secretary Robert Gibbs went on Fox News to accuse Mr. Netanyahu of "weakening trust" between the two countries.Ten days later, Mr. Netanyahu traveled to Washington to mend fences but was snubbed at a White House meeting with President Obama—no photo op, no joint statement, and he was sent out through a side door.April 2010: Mr. Netanyahu pulled out of the Obama-sponsored Washington summit on nuclear proliferation after it became clear that Turkey and Egypt intended to use the occasion to condemn the Israeli nuclear program, and Mr. Obama would not intervene.March 2011: Mr. Obama returned to his habit of urging Israelis to engage in self-reflection, inviting Jewish community leaders to the White House and instructing them to "search your souls" about Israel's dedication to peace.May 2011: The State Department issued a press release declaring that the department's No. 2 official, James Steinberg, would be visiting "Israel, Jerusalem, and the West Bank." In other words, Jerusalem is not part of Israel. Later in the month, only hours before Mr. Netanyahu departed from Israel to Washington, Mr. Obama delivered his Arab Spring speech, which focused on a demand that Israel return to its indefensible pre-1967 borders with land swaps.“The President must be experiencing some form of amnesia to forget his constant pressure and criticism against Israel. How President Obama can claim otherwise and say, he does not ‘compromise when it comes to Israel’s security,’ is baffling to me. I urge the Administration to follow a simple principle that has served the United States well: loyalty to our allies.”NOTE: Timeline summarized from a Wall Street Journal Editorial.
11.17.2011	Washington, D.C.– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement on the passage of the Fiscal Year (FY) 2012 Agriculture, Commerce/Justice/Science (CSJ), and Transportation/Housing and Urban Development (THUD) Appropriations bills – also known as a “Mini-Bus.” Diaz-Balart comments:“This bill reduces total discretionary spending for the second year in a row, a significant achievement, saving taxpayers billions of dollars. More importantly, this bill represents the extraordinary change House Republicans have made, taking Washington’s attitude from how much can government spend to how much of government can be reduced responsibly.“By closely reviewing numerous agencies and programs, we were able to cut funding for duplicative, ineffective, and poorly planned programs. Clearly, we maintained responsible funding levels for important activities such as, housing, federal law enforcement, food and drug safety, and infrastructure development.“The package also consists of a short term CR to continue funding federal operations, in order to finalize the remaining nine FY2012 Appropriations bills. The work has been long and hard, but we are one step closer in reducing the size of the federal government while simultaneously, funding essential services.”Congressman Diaz-Balart sits on the House Appropriations Committee and three of its subcommittees: Transportation/Housing and Urban Development (THUD), Vice-Chair of Financial Services, and State and Foreign Operations.
11.02.2011	Washington, D.C.– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement regarding the Obama administration’s constant criticism towards Israel. Diaz-Balart comments:“The Obama administration’s lack of solidarity with our great ally and friend, Israel, is shameful and unacceptable. Rather than seizing every opportunity to bash one of America's closest allies, the Obama Administration should exercise leadership that underscores U.S. commitment to a strong Israel. An independent, strong Israel is essential for peace. President Obama should fully and unequivocally express support for one of America's closest allies.“The Palestinian Authority has taken unilateral actions by utilizing the United Nations with the sole intention of further isolating Israel. They continue to slam the door on peace, and must realize that the road to long lasting peace can only be achieved through direct negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians. The Palestinians were forewarned on the consequences of their actions; as we can see, their refusal to resume direct peace talks has damaged any progress.“Despite this last dangerous blunder by the Obama administration, Israel can continue to count on unflinching bipartisan support of the United States Congress.”
10.27.2011	Washington, D.C.– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the House passed, with his support, H.R. 674, a bill to repeal a new and costly tax provision enacted in Section 511 of the Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act of 2005. Diaz-Balart comments:“As President Obama continues on his political campaign tour, House Republicans are hard at work finding common ground to move our economy forward. This bill, a provision found in the President’s jobs plan, lets businesses keep more of their money and relieves all levels of government from unfunded administrative burdens. Repealing the 3% withholding rule allows businesses to use their hard-earned money to expand and hire new employees.“The passage of this bill demonstrates that House Republicans are willing to work with the President on common sense proposals that will get Americans back to work. I urge the President to leave his divisive, class warfare rhetoric behind and instead demand for Senator Reid to pass the 15 jobs bills that have been sitting on his desk for way too long.”
10.15.2011	Miami, FL– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement on the death of Laura Pollan, founder of the Ladies in White. Diaz-Balart comments:"I am deeply grieved to hear of the passing of Laura Pollan, the courageous founder of the Ladies in White. Laura founded the Ladies in White ten years ago when her husband, Hector Maseda, was imprisoned. Since then, the Ladies in White has brought international attention to the unjust imprisonment and harsh prison conditions that Cuba's brave pro-democracy dissidents have suffered at the hands of the Castro regime. While I mourn the loss of one of Cuba's great heroes, I am tremendously grateful that Laura Pollan's leadership and unshakable resolve have left an enduring legacy that undoubtedly will hasten freedom to the Cuban people."
10.03.2011	Washington, D.C.– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after President Barack Obama sent the long-delayed free trade agreements with Colombia, Panama and South Korea to Congress. Diaz-Balart comments:“After stalling the three trade agreements for years and falsely blaming Congress for inaction during his Midwest bus tour; President Obama has finally sent the deals to Congress for approval. These agreements will not only get Americans back to work but also demonstrates solidarity with our democratic allies, Colombia, Panama and South Korea. In my state of Florida, the Colombia agreement alone will create over 6,400 jobs and increase exports by $500 million annually – without costing taxpayers a single penny.“Our competitors, like China are not wasting time as they continue to expand their markets and invest in Latin America. As a result, U.S. businesses have lost market share and the thousands of jobs that go along with it. It was about time the President sent these common-sense deals to Congress. They deserve swift passage in Congress, with bipartisan support.”
09.29.2011	PRESS CONFERENCE TODAY AT 2 PMDiaz-Balart, Ros-Lehtinen, and Rivera to call for unconditional release of Yris Tamara Pérez Aguilera and all Cuban Political PrisonersMiami, FL– Representatives Mario Diaz-Balart, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, and David Rivera will hold a press conference to call for the unconditional release of Yris Tamara Perez Aguilera, the wife of Jorge Luis ‘Antunez’ Garica Perez, Donaida Perez Paseiro, Yaimara Reyes Mesa, and all prisoners of conscience in Cuba.On September 26, these and other activists were brutally beaten and detained by Castro’s thugs while going to “Section 21,” Cuba’s main State Security office, to demand information regarding the welfare of other political prisoners. Accounts provided by witnesses to the attack indicate that the injuries caused by the beatings were severe. Because the regime has refused any access to these brave activists, the full extent of their injuries, and their whereabouts, remain unknown.WHO: Reps. Mario Diaz-Balart, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, and David RiveraWHAT: Press Conference calling for the unconditional release of political prisoners in CubaWHEN: Thursday, September 29 at 2:00 PMWHERE: Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart’s District Office 8669 NW 36th Street, Suite 100 Doral, FL 33166Para distribución inmediata28 de septiembre de 2011RUEDA DE PRENSA HOY A LAS 2 PMDiaz-Balart, Ros-Lehtinen, y Rivera Convocan Rueda de Prensa Para Exigir la Liberación Incondicional de los Presos Políticos en Cuba y Condenar las Brutales Golpizas a las que están Sometidos los OpositoresMiami, FL – Los Congresistas Mario Diaz-Balart, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen y David Rivera convocaran una rueda de prensa para exigir la liberación incondicional de la esposa de Jorge Luis ‘Antunez’ Garcia Perez, Yris Tamara Perez Aguilera, Donaida Perez Paseiro y Yaimara Reyes Mesa, y todos los presos políticos en Cuba.El 26 de septiembre estos y otros activistas fueron brutalmente golpeados y detenidos por los secuaces de Castro cuando se dirigían a la “Seccion 21,” que es la oficina principal de la Seguridad del Estado cubano, y a donde los activistas iban a pedir información sobre el bienestar de otros presos políticos. De acuerdo a informes de testigos las heridas causadas por la brutal golpiza son severas. No se conoce nada sobre el estado actual de estas mujeres valientes ni tampoco donde estan detenidas ya que el régimen castrista rehúsa cualquier tipo de acceso a ellas.QUIEN: Los Congresistas Mario Diaz-Balart, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen y David RiveraQUE: Rueda de prensa para exigir la liberación incondicional de presos políticosCUANDO: Jueves, 29 de septiembre a las2:00 PMDONDE: Oficina de Mario Diaz-Balart 8669 NW 36th Street, Suite 100 Doral, FL 33166 ####
09.23.2011	Washington, D.C.– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) issued the following statement regarding Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas’ request for full membership in the United Nations. Diaz-Balart comments:“The Palestinian’s unilateral efforts are out of line and irrefutably damaging to the peace process with Israel. Their latest actions prove their true intentions are to completely isolate Israel, with little to no interest in finding a mutual compromise for a two-state solution. The Obama administration’s lack of leadership and clarity has only encouraged the Palestinians to violate their diplomatic obligations, resulting in such fiasco. We cannot afford to stand idly by as Palestinian leaders decide to opt out of direct negotiations, impeding a lasting peace agreement with Israel.“We must stand firm and support our great democratic ally, Israel, sending a clear message to the Palestinians and the rest of the world that the U.S. works with those who seek true peace. If the U.N. endorses a Palestinian state, their funding along with U.S. foreign aid to the Palestine Authority will suffer the consequences. It would be wise for the Palestinians to cease their counterproductive efforts and return to direct negotiations with Israel. ”
09.08.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after President Obama announced his jobs package in front of Congress. Diaz-Balart comments:“What we heard today from President Obama was nothing other than the same failed policies that have accelerated our country down the road of bankruptcy. For the past two and half years, President Obama has spent nearly $1 trillion on his failed stimulus. The facts point out just how disastrous the President’s policies and out-of-control spending have been to all Americans with unemployment soaring at 9.1%, the downgrade of our credit rating, and anemic economic growth.“As the President continues to at best not lead or at worst lead in the wrong direction, House Republicans will continue to focus on real job creation. The President must understand that the federal government is not the premier job creator; it works to create the conditions that allow small, medium, and large businesses to do what they do best – hire, reinvest, and grow. I will continue working to remove onerous regulations, fully utilize and explore our domestic energy sources, and ratify the three pending free trade agreements, which in spite of his claims to the contrary, the President has refused to send to Congress. These measures, along with the dozens of House-passed measures currently stalled in the Senate, provide small businesses with a much needed confidence boost so they may, once again, create jobs.”
09.08.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in regards to Governor Bill Richardson’s travel to Cuba. Diaz-Balart comments:“I am very disappointed that, once again, former Governor Bill Richardson is traveling to Cuba to schmooze with dictators. Instead of rewarding the regime's unconscionable hostage-taking of U.S. humanitarian aid worker Alan Gross and its atrocious human rights record with yet another high-profile visit, the U.S. should tighten sanctions, provide greater support to the growing dissident movement, and intensify its pro-democracy efforts on the island. Unfortunately, Governor Richardson's trip is a step in the wrong direction.“Nearly 20 months after his arrest, Mr. Gross continues to wither away in a Cuban prison because he tried to bring internet access to Cuba’s Jewish community. This “crime” won him a 15-year prison sentence in a Cuban kangaroo court. When dealing with a regime where the universal right to information is criminalized and labeled a threat to state sovereignty, there is nothing to negotiate and no principle that can be compromised. Mr. Gross has become a hostage and pawn of a ruthless regime and terrorist state. There can be no justification for his imprisonment or equivocation that could make his arrest acceptable. He must be released immediately and unconditionally, without further delay. “While in Cuba, Governor Richardson should seize the opportunity to meet with Cuba’s brave pro-democracy opposition – the future leadership of Cuba – rather than hobnobbing with dictators. Unfortunately, the Governor’s long history in Cuba demonstrates that he is more interested in his own self-aggrandizement and appeasing the regime than he is in working to support the Cuban people.”
09.07.2011	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Corrine Brown (D-FL) and Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will hold a media availability session on Friday, September 9, immediately following a federal court hearing on the constitutionality of Amendment 6, one of two so-called “Fair Districts” Amendments. The media availability session will beon the west side of the breezeway, the open air area of the Ferguson Courthouse that divides the two towers. The Wilkie D. Ferguson, Jr. United States Courthouse is located on 400 North Miami Avenue, in Miami, Florida. The hearing is scheduled to begin at 10:00 a.m., during which the court will hear arguments about whether the United States’ Constitution permits changes to rules governing federal elections through Florida’s ballot initiatives process. WHO: Congresswoman Corrine Brown (FL-3) and Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-21)WHAT: Federal court hearing on Fair District AmendmentsWHERE: The Wilkie D. Ferguson, Jr. United States Courthouse 400 North Miami Avenue Miami, FL 33128WHEN: Friday, September 9, 2011 11:00 a.m. (upon completion of court hearing)CONTACT: David Simon 202-225-0123 (Rep. Brown) Ruth Guerra 202-225-4211 (Rep. Diaz-Balart)
08.11.2011	Miami, FL –Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) issued the following statement after President Obama, while in Michigan, called on Congress to pass the three pending free trade agreements with Colombia, Panama and South Korea.“Today the President called on Congress to pass the three pending free trade agreements with Colombia, Panama and South Korea to help create new jobs. But as the President knows very well, the only reason Congress has not acted on the free trade agreements is because he has consistently refused to send the agreements to Congress for approval. The President has said so himself that these agreements would help create thousands of new jobs, especially here in South Florida. Why is he holding them up and blaming Congress? Congress is ready and willing to pass these free trade agreements if the President would just send them over. The hypocrisy needs to end.”
08.11.2011	Miami, FL –Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL)issued the following statement as the first people-to-people tours take off to Cuba. Diaz-Balart comments:“Regrettably, numerous reports and travel promotions indicate that President Obama's easing of sanctions against the terrorist regime in Cuba have led to numerous abuses amounting to thinly veiled tourism, which is prohibited by U.S. law. As the Obama Administration demonstrates weakness by granting unilateral concessions to the Castro regime; the Castro brothers respond with increased brutality, imprisonment of American humanitarian aid worker Alan Gross, and the murder of political prisoners. It is past time for the Administration to stop providing unilateral concessions to the Castro regime by easing travel regulations and channeling millions of U.S. dollars to the brutal regime.”
08.05.2011	Washington, D.C. –Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL)issued the following statement on latest unemployment numbers announced by the Department of Labor. Diaz-Balart comments:“The past few days have brought us daunting news: a sluggish 1.3% of economic growth during the second quarter, our debt topping 100% of GDP, the Dow dropping 10% from its May highs, and if that isn't enough to make us realize we need a drastic change of course, look at today’s dismal unemployment numbers. A little over a year ago, Secretary Geithner released an Op-Ed titled, 'Welcome to the Recovery,' making bold statements on 'how businesses have repaired their balance sheets and are now in a strong financial position to reinvest and grow.' The administration must be living in a different world; today we see quite the contrary, due to President Obama’s insistence on higher taxes and increased regulations, businesses are reluctant to reinvest, grow, and hire.“Today, a year later, the Op-ed served its purpose: further proving how clueless the Obama administration is to the fact that their policies restrict economic growth. We must remove the threat of higher taxes that will give job creators the confidence to grow and hire; have the President send the three pending free trade agreements to Congress that will create thousands of American jobs; develop our energy resources and do away with burdensome regulations.”
08.05.2011	Washington, D.C.– Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart’s statement on the Castro regime’s decision to uphold the conviction of Alan Gross, an American humanitarian aid worker.“Today, the Castro dictatorship once again confirmed its war against America and has demonstrated its absolute disdain for the most basic human rights with its affirmation of the conviction of American humanitarian aid worker Alan Gross.Mr. Gross was convicted in a farcical trial for attempting to provide internet access to Jewish communities in Cuba, a severe "crime" in Communist Cuba. Despite stringing along the U.S. State Department for months by indicating that Mr. Gross may be released on "humanitarian" grounds, the regime has once again repudiated the Administration’s unilateral concessions with another slap in the face.The Castro regime has a long history of opposing U.S. interests and responding to perceived weaknesses in some U.S. Administrations with increased brutality and boldness. Since President Obama took office and immediately began providing a series of unilateral concessions to the Castro regime, the regime has held hostage humanitarian aid worker Alan Gross, murdered two prisoners of conscience in prison, amped up the brutal repression against its own people, and two U.S. State Department employees were convicted of spying for the regime. How long will it be before the Obama Administration realizes the true nature of the Castro dictatorship? While in prison, Mr. Gross has reportedly lost 95 pounds and is suffering various health ailments. His wife and daughter are both battling cancer. This abhorrent treatment of an American citizen who was imprisoned for acting to further basic American principles of free expression, association, and information, is outrageous. However, it seems that this Administration is incapable of outrage.It is past time for the Administration to stop providing unilateral concessions to the Castro regime by easing travel regulations and channeling millions of U.S. dollars to the brutal regime. It is time for the Administration to support the Cuban people and Mr. Gross by refusing to aid their jailers any longer.”
08.01.2011	Washington, D.C. –Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) issued the following statement after the House passed the bipartisan deal on raising the debt-ceiling limit. Diaz-Balart comments:“Although I have deep reservations on the potential reduction for future defense funding, this legislation does avert the U.S. from defaulting, it cuts and caps spending, and continues to advance the efforts of a Balanced Budget Amendment – all without raising taxes. While these measures are significant, accomplishing real spending cuts, the biggest victory is the fact that House Republicans have shifted Washington’s mentality from ‘how much can we spend’ to ‘how much can we cut.’ As we move past this, I look forward to focusing on job creation by fueling American employers with confidence so they may reinvest and hire.”###
07.29.2011	Washington, D.C. –Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) issued the following statement after the House passed a revised version of the Budget Control Act of 2011. Diaz-Balart comments:“Today, House Republicans stood together and passed a second bill that not only grants the President’s request to raise the debt ceiling limit but also cuts spending, caps future spending and lays the groundwork for a Balanced Budget Amendment – without raising taxes. This bill is not a short-term Band-Aid. This bill begins to tackle the disease that has been taking over Washington for a very long time: out-of-control spending. I urge Senate Democrats to pass at least one of the two alternative House plans in their possession that increases the debt ceiling limit; if they fail to do so, the consequences rest solely on them and President Obama.”
07.29.2011	Washington, D.C. –Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) issued the following statement after the House passed a revised version of the Budget Control Act of 2011. Diaz-Balart comments: “The Senate Democrats have demonstrated an immense level of irresponsibility and have turned their backs on the American people by failing to pass any of the two bills passed by the House, or any bill for that matter, that would raise the debt ceiling limit. The ball continues to be in their court; they must act, or face the consequences of not raising the debt limit and causing America to default.” ###
07.28.2011	Washington, DC – El Congresista Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) hizo la siguiente declaración hoy con motivo del Día de la Independencia de Perú:"Felicito al pueblo de Perú ya la comunidad peruana del Sur de Florida al celebrar su 190 aniversario como nación soberana. Que su respeto por los principios democráticos y los derechos humanos prevalezcan por encima de todo y que siempre se honren a aquellos que lucharon por la libertad que Perú disfruta hoy en día. Continuare trabajando con los líderes de Perú y la comunidad peruana para fortalecer nuestra amistad", dijo Diaz-Balart.
07.28.2011	Washington, D.C. –Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement on the Independence Day of Peru. Diaz-Balart comments:“I congratulate the people of Peru and the Peruvian community in South Florida as they celebrate their 190th anniversary as a sovereign nation. May their commitment to democratic principles and rule of law prevail above all else, remembering those who fought for the liberties they enjoy today. I look forward to continuing my work with Peruvian leaders and the Peruvian community to strengthen our partnership.”
07.26.2011	Washington, D.C. –Today Co-Chairs of the Congressional Caucus on Morocco, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and Congressman Michael Grimm (R-NY) issued the following statement in response to the crash of a military transport plane in Morocco.“Our thoughts and prayers go out to the victims, the families of the victims and the people of Morocco on this tragic day. May they be filled with strength to overcome this horrible incident. The United States stands firmly with Morocco and mourns over the lives lost.”
07.21.2011	WASHINGTON, DC –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) appeared on CNBC’s “Worldwide Exchange,” to discuss the ongoing debt limit negotiations in Congress.“A deal has to have no tax increases and control our out-of-control spending which is causing the debt crisis,” Diaz-Balart told CNBC. Click to Play
07.20.2011	WASHINGTON,DC- El Congresista Mario Díaz-Balart (R-FL) hizo la siguiente declaración hoy con motivo del Día de la Independencia de Colombia:"En este aniversario de la Independencia de Colombia le envío una felicitación muy especial al Presidente Juan Manuel Santos, al pueblo de Colombia y a todos los colombianos del Sur de Florida. El amor de los colombianos por su país y su respeto a los principios democráticos son admirables y un ejemplo a seguir por otros países en la región."En este día tan especial quiero una vez más reiterar mi compromiso de continuar trabajando a favor de la aprobación del Tratado de Libre Comercio con Colombia que fortalecerá las relaciones entre Estados Unidos y su mejor aliado y amigo en el hemisferio occidental. El Tratado de Libre Comercio con Colombia creará nuevos empleos e incrementará las exportaciones en momentos en que nuestra economía más lo necesita”, agregó Diaz-Balart.El CongresistaMario Díaz-Balart representa elDistrito 21 de Florida donde residen uno de los grupos de colombianos y colombo-americanos en Estados Unidos. Mario Díaz-Balart es fundador del Comité Parlamentario a favor de Colombia de la Cámara de Representantes de Estados Unidos y actualmente ejerce como Co-Presidente.
07.20.2011	WASHINGTON, DC- Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement on Colombia’s Independence Day. Diaz-Balart comments:“I would like to join President Juan Manual Santos, the people of Colombia and Colombians in South Florida as they celebrate their 201 years of Independence from Spain. Colombians’ love of freedom and democracy is admirable and should be an example to other countries in the region. “On this special day, it is worthwhile to reiterate the importance of passing the free trade agreement with Colombia. Colombia remains our strongest ally and friend in the western hemisphere. The trade agreement would not only strengthen ties between the two countries, create jobs at a time of 9.2% unemployment rate, but also expand our export market during lethargic economic growth.” Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart represents Florida’s 21st Congressional District, which includes parts of Miami-Dade and Broward counties. Diaz-Balart’s Congressional District includes one of the largest groups of Colombian and Colombian-Americans in the entire United States. Diaz-Balart is a Co-founder of the Congressional Caucus on Colombia and currently serves as Co-Chairman.
07.15.2011	Washington, D.C. – The Congressional Hispanic Conference (CHC) announces new Chairman and Vice-Chairman for the 112th Congress. The CHC founded in 2003, seeks to promote policy outcomes that are important to the Hispanic and Portuguese communities. In addition, the Conference also represents the diversity of thought that exists in the Hispanic community.“I am proud to announce the re-launching of the Congressional Hispanic Conference as it actively works to highlight and promote policies that are of interest to a large and growing community within our population,” said Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-21). “As Chairman, I look forward to working with my colleagues in this effort and provide the Hispanic community with a vote and voice in Congress,” concluded Congressman Diaz-Balart.“As the son of Mexican immigrants and a newly elected member of Congress, I am humbled by the honor to serve as Vice-Chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Conference. Hispanics are our nation’s largest minority, The Conference will ensure that the Hispanic American constituency is well represented in our country’s decision-making process in the 112th Congress,” said Congressman Canseco (TX-23).Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen said “I am proud to be a member of the Congressional Hispanic Conference. Our nation’s Hispanic population is and will continue to be a key component of our nation’s long-term prosperity. I look forward to working with my Congressional colleagues as we address the important issues facing our community.”“My family emigrated from Spain and settled in Texas in 1725,” said Congressman Flores (TX-17). “They came to this great country in search of the ‘American Dream’ and I pledge to work tirelessly to ensure that the same opportunities are preserved for our children and their children. I am honored to have the opportunity to work under Chairman Diaz-Balart and Vice-Chairman Canseco’s leadership so that we may work to restore America’s promise, prosperity and security for future generations of Hispanic-Americans. ”Congresswoman Jaime Herrera-Beutler said “Our Hispanic communities want us to protect the greatest of American rights for them: the opportunity to work hard and achieve success. I’m eager to join my colleagues in the Congressional Hispanic Caucus to protect this right and build a better America.”Congressional Hispanic Conference members include: Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart, Rep. Francisco “Quico” Canseco, Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Rep. Devin Nunes, Rep. Jaime Herrera-Buetler, Rep. Bill Fores, and Rep. David Rivera. The conference is also open to non-Hispanic "associate" members.
07.14.2011	Our Constitution has been amended just 27 times in 223 yearsWashington, D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) issued the following statement on the ongoing Congressional negotiations regarding the debt limit.“The White House says the ongoing congressional negotiations provide ‘a unique opportunity to accomplish something significant.’ If the White House were serious about accomplishing something significant, then they would join House Republicans in passing a Balanced Budget Amendment. The American people can recall at least a handful of false promises made by this administration, which makes their efforts or ‘promise’ to cut trillions of dollars over the next ten years insignificant if no enforcement measures exist.”
07.07.2011	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) issued the following statement regarding a non-markup held by the Committee of Ways and Means on the three trade agreements with Colombia, Panama, and South Korea. The non-markup relays the views of the Committee to the Administration before the trade agreements and implementing bills are formally submitted to Congress. Diaz-Balart comments:“During the non-markup Democrats voted along party lines, opposing the three long-pending trade agreements that will create thousands of jobs and increase U.S. exports by billions of dollars. I thank Chairman Dave Camp (R-MI) and Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) for demonstrating leadership by working hard to move the agreements forward. We must pass these agreements and demonstrate solidarity to Panama and Colombia, especially as our competitors, like China, continue to grow their markets with our democratic allies. I’m optimistic, in spite of the Democrats’ partisan opposition, and will continue to work until all three agreements have been passed.”
07.05.2011	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) issued the following statement commemorating Venezuela’s Independence from Spain on July 5, 1811. Diaz-Balart comments:“Today, July 5th,many Venezuelans celebrate 200 years of freedom from Spain, but lament over the current living conditions in Venezuela under the ruthless, corrupt, dictator, Hugo Chavez. Venezuelans, like Americans, believe in democracy, human rights and the rule of law, which unfortunately have been hijacked by Chavez. On this historic day, we must remember to persevere for justice always prevails and democracy and freedom will once again ring true in Venezuela.”
06.30.2011	Vilnius, Lithuania –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL)issued the following statement in response to the Parliamentary Forum of the Community of Democracies passing a resolution recognizing the ‘Orlando Zapata Tamayo National Front for Civic Resistance and Civil Disobedience,’ and recommending Dr. Oscar Elias Biscet for the Nobel Peace Prize. Diaz-Balart comments:“Today, the Parliamentary Forum of the Community of Democracies unanimously passed a resolution supporting Dr. Oscar Elias Biscet for the Nobel Peace Prize and recognizing a movement, started by pro-democracy leader Jorge Luis Garcia Perez Antunez and other resistance leaders. The movement is now known as the ‘Orlando Zapata Tamayo National Front for Civic Resistance and Civil Disobedience.’ This resolution brings attention to the many Cuban pro-democracy activists and condemns the murderous regime for 52 years of barbarism and tyranny. Parliamentarians from around the world came together in strong support and solidarity with the Cuban people and condemned their oppressors.“The Parliamentary Forum of the Community of Democracies resolution is another example of the increasing international attention and support of the growing democratic opposition in Cuba. The resolution assures the Cuban people are not alone in their struggle, and is a warning to the regime that their atrocities are recorded on an international stage,” said Diaz-Balart.During the forum, Congressman Diaz-Balart expressed his gratitude to Bono, the activist and front man of the U2 group, for his solidarity with the Cuban people and for highlighting Dr. Biscet’s story in front of an audience of thousands in Miami. “International solidarity with the Cuban people and the courageous pro-democracy movement continues to grow. The opposition's perseverance in the face of the regime's unrelenting and brutal repression has brought greater attention to Cuba and their difficult struggle for freedom. I am grateful to our friends throughout the world who continue to support the heroes in Cuba and who demand liberties for the Cuban people. When Cuba is finally free, these friends will forever be remembered as opposing tyranny and defending freedom."Read the text of the resolution below: Whereas the Cuban dictatorship over the past 52 years has erected a totalitarian power structure that systematically violates the fundamental human rights of all Cubans both in law and by its actions.Whereas over the past 52 years this dictatorship has engaged in thousands of summary and extra-judicial executions;Whereas hundreds of thousands of Cubans have been imprisoned for their political beliefs;Whereas, ever since 1959 there has been a constant resistance to the Communist regime throughout the island and in exile;Whereas the human rights movement grew out of the prisons into a national movement capable of documenting human rights abuses, distributing copies of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, educating Cubans on human rights, and organizing petition drives to attempt to empower Cubans;Whereas the Regime has steadfastly refused to carry out any kind of political opening or democratic transition, increasing repression in order to try and repress the freedom movement;Whereas civic resistance is the means currently available to the Cuban people for them to regain their liberty;Whereas Dr. Oscar Elias Biscet was one of the pioneering activists who took to the streets to distribute copies of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights;Whereas this civic resistance movement has embraced the nonviolent teachings of Mahatma Gandhi and Martin Luther King Jr.;Whereas Cuban political prisoners Jose Daniel Ferrer Garcia, Jorge Luís García Pérez Antunez and Ricardo Pupo Sierra, in the summer of 2006, issued a call for non-cooperation with the regime; Whereas Cubans in the Diaspora answered this call, first by organizing a non-cooperation campaign to spread their compatriots’ message, and secondly, on March 18, 2009, forming the Assembly of the Resistance, on the sixth anniversary of the “Black Cuban Spring”, with over 50 civil society organizations;Whereas Jorge Luís García Pérez Antunez, imprisoned for 17 years and 34 days on the charge of “enemy propaganda” for calling for Eastern European style reforms in 1990, emerged from prison having served his full sentence on April 23, 2007;Whereas Jorge Luís García Pérez Antunez on November 3, 2009, along with other resistance leaders from throughout the island, established the National Civic Resistance and Civil Disobedience Front, a movement which has brought together opposition organizations in Cuba whose strategy is civic resistance and civil disobedience;Whereas following the death of prisoner of conscience Orlando Zapata Tamayo on February 23, 2010 at the hands of the dictatorship, the movement was renamed the Orlando Zapata Tamayo National Front for Civic Resistance and Civil Disobedience;Whereas the Orlando Zapata Tamayo National Front for Civic Resistance and Civil Disobedience continues to carry out coordinated protests and civic actions throughout Cuba;Now, Therefore the Parliamentary Forum of the Community of Democracies recognizes the Orlando Zapata Tamayo National Front for Civic Resistance and Civil Disobedience as a legitimate representative of the struggle for the freedom of the Cuban people;Furthermore, we support the nomination of Dr. Oscar Elias Biscet for the Nobel Peace Prize, because of his pioneering work on human rights education in Cuba and the example he personifies as a non-violent leader in the struggle for human rights inspired by Mahatma Gandhi and Martin Luther King Jr.
06.23.2011	Prevents Hard Currency from reaching a Terrorist Regime in CubaWashington, D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) issued the following statement on the passage of his Amendment during an Appropriations Committee, Financial Services Subcommittee mark-up. Diaz-Balart comments:“Today, we won an important vote in the House Committee on Appropriations to deny hard currency to the terrorist regime in Cuba. The amendment that I proposed prohibits any funding for enforcement of Obama’s regulations regarding Cuban-American travel and remittances. Our amendment replaces those regulations with those that were in place during the Bush Administration. ““While my amendment does not eliminate Cuban-American travel and remittances, it curbs the abuse that help fund the Castro regime. Tourism travel is the number one source of revenue for the regime. “An American aid worker Alan Gross continues to rot in prison, political prisoners are tormented and some murdered, and repression on the island intensifies, I cannot stand aside as abuse of the current regulations channel millions of U.S. taxpayer dollars to the terrorist regime in Cuba. This amendment is a national security issue, a human rights issue and a freedom issue.“I appreciate the strong support of my colleagues on this important amendment, many of whom spoke in strong support of my amendment, and I look forward to continuing to work with them until this language becomes law.”
06.22.2011	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) issued the following statement in response to the CBO’s Annual Long-Term Budget Outlook report. Diaz-Balart comments:“The CBO’s latest report is daunting, yet not surprising. It restates the conversations I have with constituents during local Town hall meetings: this current fiscal path will bankrupt our country. It is simply unsustainable. We must and we will put an end to the administrations annual trillion-dollar deficit and remove onerous regulations that deter job creation. America deserves better, my Republican colleagues and I remain committed in reviving and prospering this great country.“While the report portrays a different America within the next 25 years, we see the dismal consequences of record high debt and deficits impacting millions of Americans today. If times are tough now, we can only imagine what the future holds if we refuse to confront these challenges.” According to the CBO’s latest Long-Term Budget Outlook, the nation's budget outlook is daunting. Without significant policy changes, an aging population and rising per capita health care costs will lead to surging federal debt.###
06.22.2011	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement commemorating World Refugee Day 2011. Diaz-Balart comments:“On this day we remember the millions of people forced from their homes, fleeing from conflict and persecution around the world. It is necessary that we raise awareness and show our sincere appreciation to all the men and women who protect and care for refugees. Days like these serve as a reminder that we must be grateful for having a place to call home and to never apologize for being the freest and most generous country in the history of the world.” Congressman Diaz-Balart will attend, as an honorary host, and speak at the World Refugee Day 2011 reception and exhibition tonight in Washington, DC. The event will honor some of the doctors, nurses, faith leaders, lawyers, business owners, farmers, caseworkers, teachers, and many others who welcome refugees into their communities.###
06.21.2011	Answers Come from Home Not WashingtonWashington, DC– Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) issued the following statement after hosting a local Town Hall meeting with Broward residents in the City of Miramar. The Town Hall focused specifically on the budget and touched on an array of other federal issues. Guests were encouraged to participate and ask questions. Diaz-Balart comments:"It is great to come home and have a casual, fact-based conversation with residents about the challenges and opportunities facing our country. These meetings provide me with the opportunity to hear directly from residents and answer any questions they may have pertaining to federal issues. I appreciate those who took the time to attend and participate, for I know the best answers come from home not Washington.”Diaz-Balart fielded questions from residents and continued an ongoing dialogue for two hours about current issues surrounding our fiscal situation. Members from Congressman Diaz-Balart's staff were in attendance to answer questions and deliver information to residents on the services their Congressional Office offers. ####
06.20.2011	Miami, FL –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after visiting Boeing Flight Services Training Facility. Diaz-Balart comments:“Visiting a company like Boeing who supports jobs, either directly or indirectly, to over 30,000 Floridians is encouraging, especially during these tough economic times. Companies like Boeing that work hard to maintain their employees and expand their services, in spite of all regulations, are the epitome of efficiency and effectiveness at its highest within the private sector. The high-quality training and flight services they provide are truly exceptional. I applaud the hard work and team effort that go into creating a company of such stature.”More InformationAccording to Boeing, the site in Miami employs over 75 Boeing employees, and is Boeing's largest SIM facility in the country with 16 simulators. The Miami site receives over 200 trainees every month, with an average training time for initial pilots of 35 days, and recurrent pilots of 6 days. Average time for maintenance training is 14 days.Boeing in Florida employs approximately 1700 direct Boeing employees, with a supplier footprint of 1071 suppliers representing an economic footprint of $874,288,796 for the State. The Boeing Company is very involved in the community, and in 2010, contributed $1.5 million to charitable organizations in Florida.###
06.20.2011	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to King Mohammed VI’s speech on Friday, June 17. During his speech, the King announced a series of Constitutional Amendments and scheduled national referendum for July 1. Diaz-Balart comments:"I commend the progress Morocco has made in advancing democratic principles such as equality, free and fair elections, and the rule of law. As Morocco's king bravely promised earlier this year, the people of Morocco will participate in a historic vote on a series of broad and significant constitutional and government reforms on July 1. While much of the Arab world is struggling under tyrannical regimes, Morocco provides an example of how to pursue positive reform.” ###
06.17.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) issued the following statement on the one-year anniversary of President Obama's "Summer of Economic Recovery." Diaz-Balart comments:"A year after the administration claimed a 'summer of economic recovery' millions of Americans continue to wait for the millions of promised jobs. The soaring gas and food prices, high levels of unemployment, and anemic rate of economic growth demonstrate the policies enacted by President Obama have been catastrophic."It is time for the President to realize that the only thing shovel ready are the jobs the administration is shoveling away."
06.17.2011	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after meeting with IRS Commissioner, Doug Shulman. Diaz-Balart questioned Commissioner Shulman on the numerous cases of identity theft and demanded more effective measures from the IRS. Diaz-Balart comments:“During our meeting, Commissioner Doug Shulman and I discussed the numerous cases of identity theft across the country. I presented him with various examples of individuals from South Florida who were victimized more than once by this heinous crime. Commissioner Shulman provided various solutions implemented by the IRS to prevent these crimes from occurring in the future. While I am pleased to hear of such steps being taken, we must ensure these incidents are controlled in order to protect the security and safety of taxpayers.”Two weeks prior to this meeting, Congressman Diaz-Balart testified on a panel during a hearing held by the Oversight Committee, Subcommittee on Government Organization, Efficiency and Financial Management entitled “IRS E-file and Identity Theft.”
06.15.2011	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement once the SEC concluded that certain Stanford Ponzi Scheme investors are entitled to protections under the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 (SIPA). Diaz-Balart comments:“I am pleased that the SEC has finally, after two long years, decided to protect and stand by a number of the victims of the Stanford Ponzi scheme. While the ruling does not cover all of the victims, progress has been made and it will provide relief to some of the many victims who have been eagerly waiting for a final decision. The next step is for the SEC to settle the claims and to do so in a timely manner.”Congressman Diaz-Balart sits as Vice-Chair on the Appropriations Financial Services Subcommittee, which held a hearing in March with SEC Chairwoman Mary Schapiro. During the hearing, Diaz-Balart requested Chairwoman Schapiro to prioritize and expedite the ruling in order to give victims justice.
06.14.2011	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to President Obama’s visit to Puerto Rico.“The President’s trip to Puerto Rico comes at a time when unemployment among Hispanics is at 11.9 percent, 2.8 percent above the national rate. These numbers are a clear indicator of the administration’s failed policies leaving American families, especially Hispanics, to pay the price. President Obama is now in his third year of office and has yet to fulfill the promises he made to Hispanics back in 2008. Unfortunately, the President only engages with the Hispanic community when it is necessary for re-election.“I urge President Obama to reverse his policies that have been a dismal failure to the economy and job creation, the top two concerns among the Hispanic community,” concluded Diaz-Balart.
06.01.2011	Legislation saves lives, reduces property loss and public disaster aidWASHINGTON, D.C. – Reps. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Albio Sires (D-NJ) and Richard Hanna (R-NY) introduced legislation to make buildings safer and increase public safety. Strong building codes will help strengthen emergency preparedness against natural disasters.The Safe Building Codes Incentives Act, H.R. 2069 creates a financial incentive for states to adopt and enforce statewide building codes that would protect communities in the event of hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fire, and other natural disasters. States that enact comprehensive building codes will qualify for an additional four percent of funding for disaster relief. Additionally, this legislation will enable states to utilize existing pre-disaster mitigation grants to establish and administer building code programs prior to the occurrence of a disaster.“In the past few weeks and months multiple cities around the country have been victims of natural disasters destroying numerous homes, lives, and businesses. While these events have been devastating, they confirm the importance of investing in strong homes and buildings,” said Rep. Diaz-Balart. “My goal is to keep our families and communities safe while saving taxpayers money, which is precisely what this legislation focuses on.”“Strong building codes are critical to protecting the safety and vitality of our communities in the event of a natural disaster. I am proud to sponsor this important bill to encourage states to adopt model building codes that will save lives, reduce property loss, and better construct our homes and buildings for natural catastrophes,” said Rep. Sires.Stronger, more modern building codes will make homes and buildings more likely to withstand higher impacts, helping them to remain intact in the event of a disaster. The proactive action taken by this legislation aims to reduce the amount of taxpayer dollars spent on future recovery efforts.Research has shown that having nationally-recognized standards for building codes can provide a tremendous level of protection. The Louisiana State University Hurricane Center has estimated that of the $10 billion in damage to homes in Louisiana, modern building codes would have spared 80 percent of the damage.The Safe Building Codes Act has been endorsed by a large coalition of groups, companies and organizations, including: Allstate Insurance Company, American Insurance Association (AIA), Farmers Insurance Group of Companies, Federal Alliance for Safe Homes (FLASH), Financial Services Roundtable (FSR), Institute for Business and Home Safety (IBHS), Independent Insurance Agents and Brokers of America (IIABA), International Code Council, Liberty Mutual Insurance, MetLife, National Association of Mutual Insurance Companies (NAMIC), National Fire Protection Association, Nationwide Insurance, NeighborWorks America, Property and Casualty Insurers Association of America (PCIAA), St. Paul Travelers, Simpson Strong-Tie Co., Solutia, State Farm Insurance Companies, The Hartford and USAA Insurance.
05.31.2011	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to the House vote on H.R. 1954, to implement the President’s request to increase the debt limit. Diaz-Balart comments:“President Obama and his allies in Congress insist on more borrowing and more spending by voting to unconditionally raise the debt limit. Raising the debt limit without significant spending cuts and reforms would be utterly irresponsible. I did not vote for this bill because it bankrupts our country and continues kicking the can down the road, leaving our children and grandchildren with unmanageable debt.”
05.24.2011	WASHINGTON, DC— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) encourages families and individuals to prepare for Hurricane Season. Diaz-Balart promotes National Hurricane Preparedness Week, which began on May 22 and runs through May 28. Hurricane Season starts next Wednesday, June 1.“As our thoughts and prayers go out to the people of Joplin, Missouri; I encourage all to take the necessary steps to prepare for such a disaster. Each year, Florida faces the threat that Hurricane season brings, and it is one that cannot be taken lightly. It is imperative that we take the proper measures to secure our families, businesses, and communities.“I remain hopeful that our communities will be spared from a serious storm, but we must nonetheless be prepared to reduce the effects of a natural disaster,” said Diaz-Balart. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) kicked off their annual National Hurricane Preparedness Week to create awareness leading up to the start of the season. To learn more, please visit the links provided below. Helpful Links NOAA’s Hurricane Preparedness Week: https://www.nhc.noaa.gov/HAW2FEMA preparedness: https://www.ready.gov/
05.03.2011	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to Hamas prime minister, Ismail Haniyeh, who denounced the death of Osama bin Laden, the al-Qaeda leader and chief architect of the terrorist attacks on the United States. Diaz-Balart comments: “The statement from Hamas prime minister, Ismail Haniyeh, condemning the death of Osama bin Laden unequivocally demonstrates his allegiance to terrorist ideology. The recent reconciliation between Hamas and Fatah increases the risk of having U.S. taxpayer dollars allotted to a government composed of a Foreign Terrorist Organization. This is offensive to all Americans and will not be tolerated.“As a member of the State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, I will work hard to ensure all funds are stripped from those who threaten our national security and interests.”NOTE: Ismail Haniyeh, prime minister of the Hamas government in the Gaza Strip, on Monday denounced the U.S. killing of Al Qaeda chief Osama bin Laden in Pakistan. "We condemn the assassination and the killing of an Arab holy warrior," Haniyeh told reporters, according to Reuters.
05.02.2011	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to the death of Osama bin Laden, the al-Qaeda leader and chief architect of the terrorist attacks on the United States. Diaz-Balart comments:“Today is a great day for America and for those that choose the path to freedom and peace. It is a time for Americans to stand together remembering the victims of 9/11 and know that justice perseveres above all. The world today is a safer and better place.“My deepest admiration and appreciation goes out to our armed forces and intelligence officers who carried out this operation successfully, risking their lives to protect our freedom.”
04.29.2011	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to the skyrocketing gas prices under the Obama Administration.“As gas prices continue to soar, the White House responds with lousy excuses saying, ‘there is no silver bullet’ for combating rising gasoline prices. The American people deserve a response that will provide relief at the gas pump. I strongly encourage the administration to change their anti-energy policies that continue to lead to the rising energy costs,” said Diaz-Balart.The President’s anti-energy policies are driving up gas prices, costing American jobs, and increasing our dependence on foreign oil. Facts on how:About 12,000 jobs lost and more than 36,000 jobs at risk. According to a study by Louisiana State University monetary economist Dr. Joseph Mason.More than a 200,000 barrel per day decrease in Gulf Coast Energy Production. According to the Energy Information Administration’s March 2011 “Short Term Energy Outlook.”27 billion barrels of oil under lock and key in Alaska. According to a recent Fox News report.More than 40 American energy production projects stalled. According to the House Natural Resource Committee notes.“House Republicans have introduced three separate bills that focus on expanding offshore energy production that will create jobs, lower energy costs, and lessen our dependence on foreign oil. I ask the President and Democrats in Congress to listen to the American people and join House Republicans in passing the legislation,” added Diaz-Balart.
04.07.2011	Washington, D.C. –Representatives Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Gregory Meeks (D-NY), Aaron Schock (R-IL), and Henry Cuellar (D-TX) released the following statement regarding the administration’s decision to act upon the Colombia Free Trade Agreement. Diaz-Balart, Meeks, Schock, and Cuellar comment:“As co-chairs of the Colombia Caucus, we are pleased that the Administration is finally moving forward on the Colombia Free Trade Agreement. The FTA is a no cost means to increasing exports and creating much-needed jobs. “Colombia has not only been a strong economic partner, but also a steadfast security partner to the United States. Colombia has distinguished itself as a global leader in fighting drug trafficking and terrorism, while undertaking unprecedented reforms to enhance labor and human rights.“The longer we wait to pass the FTA, the more market share U.S. businesses lose to foreign competitors and the fewer jobs we create at home. We urge the Administration to send the Trade Promotion Agreement to Congress as soon as possible to open markets for American consumers, generate jobs, and grow our economy.”NOTE: In 2009, Reps. Mario Diaz-Balart, Gregory Meeks, Aaron Schock, and Henry Cuellar co-founded the Congressional Caucus on Colombia to strengthen political, economic, and security ties between our the United State and Colombia. Since its inception, the Caucus has held meetings and briefings with Vice President Angelino Garzon, Ambassador and former Defense Minister Gabriel Silva, former Trade Minister Luis Guillermo Plata, former Ambassador Carolina Barco, and other stakeholders.
04.06.2011	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement regarding the administration’s decision to act upon the Colombia Free Trade Agreement. Diaz-Balart comments:“An agreement between the U.S. and Colombia has been long overdue; the Obama administration’s failure to act on a deal that has been ready since 2007, has been at the expense of American jobs. Colombia is one of America’s closest democratic allies in our hemisphere and it is in our national security interest to pass the FTA. Colombia has taken significant strides in recent years enhancing human and labor rights, training Afghan officials and Mexican law enforcement, and combating illegal drug trade.“It is about time for the administration to finalize a deal and recognize the considerable reforms Colombia has made over the past decade. The Colombia deal demonstrates solidarity with our neighbor, creates jobs in Florida and across the country, and provides business opportunities for American companies to invest and grow.“The Colombia FTA would not be possible without the leadership of Speaker Boehner, Chairman Camp, and Chairman Brady for conditioning the passage of the South Korea agreement with the Colombia and Panama agreements. I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure the agreements move forward quickly to create jobs and promote economic growth.” NOTE: In 2009, Diaz-Balart co-founded and co-chaired the Congressional Caucus on Colombia. Last month, Diaz-Balart joined a CODEL led by Congresswoman Granger that visited Colombia, Panama, Guatemala, and Mexico.
04.05.2011	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) issued the following statement in reaction to Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan’s (R-WI) fiscal year 2012 House budget resolution. Diaz-Balart comments:“It is time for results; the American people have had enough budget gimmicks and rhetoric. The budget unveiled by Chairman Ryan takes the challenges facing our country head-on, demonstrating true leadership and providing solutions that pave our path to stability and security. The proposed budget pays down our national debt, fulfills the promises of health and retirement security programs, protects people in and near retirement, and fosters job creation and economic growth. This budget offers crucial reforms and real solutions.” ###
04.01.2011	Washington, D.C. –Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to the latest unemployment figures released by the U.S. Department of Labor. Diaz-Balart comments:“The latest unemployment figures offer only momentary comfort. The reality is millions of Americans remain jobless and small business owners’ only certainty lies in having a House Republican majority that rejects any tax hikes. Additionally, reducing excessive wasteful spending and removing onerous regulations that stifle job creation and economic recovery.” ###
03.28.2011	Washington, DC. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement regarding former President Jimmy Carter’s visit to Cuba. Diaz-Balart comments:“Instead of supporting the lifting of sanctions against a state sponsor of terrorism; President Carter should demand the Castro regime to allow free and fair elections, freedom of the press, the establishment of political parties and the unconditional release of all political prisoners.“Rather than meeting with representatives from the tyrannical Castro regime, President Carter should show solidarity for a free Cuba by meeting with the true leaders of the Cuban people, the Presidential Medal of Freedom winner Dr. Oscar Elias Biscet and Jorge Luis Garcia Perez “Antunez”.
03.18.2011	The visit will focus on security assistance in the region, the Mérida Initiative, and strengthening economic tiesWashington, DC- Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) joins Chairwoman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX) and six other Members of Congress on a delegation trip to Colombia, Panama, Guatemala, and Mexico to examine the impact of U.S. security assistance in Central and South America. Diaz-Balart departed Washington yesterday and will return to Florida on Friday, March 25. The delegation will begin in Bogota, Colombia and conclude in Mexico City, Mexico and plans to meet with Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos, Guatemalan President Alvaro Colom, Panamanian President Ricardo Martinelli, and Mexican President Felipe Calderon.“This trip comes at time when turmoil plagues large parts of the world, making it essential for us to know that our closest neighbors are secure and continue to fight against narcotics. While Colombia has proved that drug cartels can be defeated, Mexico now experiences the bloodshed and we must stand by our allies to ensure a peaceful outcome,” said Diaz-Balart. “My focus in particular will be on strengthening economic ties with our Colombian and Panamanian allies. Ratifying the Free Trade Agreement with these two countries is vital and mutually beneficial to our economies, creating hundreds of jobs here on American soil at no cost to taxpayers,” concluded Diaz-Balart.Under the Mérida Initiative, the United States provided assistance, largely in the form of equipment and training. Funding for the Mérida Initiative has focused on:• Providing Bell helicopters and surveillance aircraft to support interdiction and the rapid response of Mexican law enforcement agencies;• Providing non-intrusive inspection equipment, ion scanners, and canine units for Mexican customs and the new Mexican federal police, as well as the military to interdict trafficked drugs, arms, cash, and persons;• Providing technologies and secure communications to improve data collection and storage; and technical advice and training to strengthen the institutions of justice in order to improve vetting for the Mexican police force, to provide case management software to track investigations through the legal process, to support offices of citizen complaint and professional responsibility, and to promote the establishment of witness protection programs.
03.17.2011	Washington, D.C. –Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) and Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) spoke to Dr. Oscar Elias Biscet following his release this weekend after being imprisoned for nearly a decade as a political prisoner of the Cuban regime. Ros-Lehtinen and Diaz-Balart comment:“After enduring years of unimaginable suffering at the hands of his Cuban jailers, Dr. Biscet remains resolute in his refusal to accept anything less than a free and democratic Cuba. His spirit and determination in the face of such merciless repression by the Cuban regime offers inspiration and leadership to the millions of Cubans yearning for freedom from the Havana tyranny. Dr. Biscet has witnessed first-hand how the U.S. administration’s practice of granting concessions has only empowered Biscet’s jailers, and has undermined the pro-democracy movement in Cuba.”
03.10.2011	Diaz-Balart will help constituents file 2010 Tax Return for Free in the City of Sweetwater on March 14thWashington, D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will help constituents file their 2010 tax return for free on Monday, March 14th. There will be IRS-certified volunteers present at the Jorge Mas Canosa Youth Center to assist constituents from 10:30 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. with Diaz-Balart present and available for interviews at 10:30 a.m. sharp. Diaz-Balart encourages constituents from District 21 to show up and take advantage of the opportunity to file their tax return free of charge.Participants will also be able to obtain information regarding the Earned Income Tax Credit.WHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-BalartWHAT: Tax Event – File Tax Return for FreeWHERE: Jorge Mas Canosa Youth Center (park) 250 SW 114th Avenue Sweetwater, FLWHEN: 10:30 am-12 noon,Monday, March 14, 2011 Note: Congressman Diaz-Balart will be present at 10:30 a.m. and available for interviews.WHY: “This is a great opportunity for families to file their tax return free of charge and in time for the fast approaching April 18th deadline. It is my priority to ensure that hard-working families keep more of their income, and I am hosting this event so that those who need guidance or assistance in filing their tax returns have it available,” said Diaz-Balart. TO COVER: Please RSVP to Ruth Guerra or call (202) 225-4211.
03.10.2011	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Diaz-Balart questions Secretary Hillary Clinton during a Foreign Operations Subcommittee hearing regarding the FY2012 State Department budget request. During the hearing, Diaz-Balart reminds Secretary Clinton of a statement she made in September 2010 saying, “Our rising debt levels pose a national security threat in two ways: it undermines our capacity to act in our own interest, and it does constrain us where constraint may be undesirable. And it also sends a message of weakness internationally...” At such time, the national debt stood at $13.4 trillion. Considering the President’s budget for FY2012 would add another $13 trillion to the debt over the next decade, Diaz-Balart asks, “Is it fair to say that the President’s budget gives you [Sec. Clinton] 13 trillion more reasons to be concerned about our national security?”
03.08.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will receive the 2011 NCLR (National Council of La Raza) Capital Award for demonstrating a consistent commitment to promoting legislation and public policies that benefit Hispanic Americans in the 21st District of Florida and throughout the country. The award will be presented at the NCLR annual gala at the National Building Museum in Washington, DC. Diaz-Balart released the following statement regarding the award.“It is truly an honor to receive the 2011 NCLR Capital Award. I must thank Janet Murguía, Daniel Ortega and their staff at the NCLR for all their hard work in improving and promoting opportunities for Hispanic Americans day after day. Hispanic Americans make up the largest and fastest-growing minority group in the United States, it is important that we realize their significant contributions in a variety of fields including sports, sciences, the arts, and our economy.”This is the only Hispanic event that recognizes politicians from both sides of the aisle, the NCLR Capital Awards has previously recognized the late Senator Edward M. Kennedy (D-MA), Representative John Boehner (R–OH), and Representative Nancy Pelosi (D–CA).
03.04.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) comments on Governor Rick Scott’s decision to fully fund the Port of Miami Deep Dredge project without financial assistance from the federal government and promote the free trade agreement with Colombia. Diaz-Balart comments:“I commend Governor Scott for vowing to fully fund the deep dredge project without federal assistance and promoting the Colombia Free Trade Agreement (FTA). The contrast in leadership between President Obama and Governor Scott couldn’t be more dramatic, today, we clearly see true commitment to job creation,” said Diaz-Balart.“Today’s announcement is a significant first step toward economic gain for South Florida that will spread across the state for years to come. While the Administration passes the buck on job creation, Governor Scott steps up with a bold commitment that will initiate economic growth in Florida and across the country,” added Diaz-Balart. “Florida’s investment in deep dredging in the Port of Miami will increase cargo, create tens of thousands of jobs right away, and increase international trade that is critical to the nation’s economic recovery,” concluded Diaz-Balart.
03.03.2011	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement after the passage of H.R. 4, which repeals the 1099 tax reporting provision included in the Democrats’ health care law.“This legislation will protect small businesses from a cumbersome mandate that's hidden within Obamacare. At a time when small businesses are doing their best to survive, we need to protect them, their workers and American taxpayers,” said Diaz-Balart. The mandate would require all employers and entrepreneurs to submit a 1099 form for vendors with whom they do $600 or more in business in a given year. “The idea of such an onerous mandate is a nightmare; small businesses are the backbone of our economy responsible for our growth by innovating, investing, and creating jobs for the American people,” added Diaz-Balart.“The 1099 mandate would force small businesses to devote precious resources and time to comply with tax filing instead of focusing on business expansion and job creation. The federal government must encourage private sector growth, not drown them with onerous and outrageous provisions,” Diaz-Balart concluded.
03.01.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) comments after the passage of a temporary Continuing Resolution (CR) that will allow the federal government to continue operations for an additional two weeks when the current funding measure expires on March 4th. Diaz-Balart comments:“The temporary CR is necessary to prevent a government shutdown that would halt all necessary services and programs that Americans across the country rely on. The bill reduces spending by $4 billion for the next two weeks reflecting the continued commitment of House Republican to rein in spending and get our economy back on track. This short-term measure is only one of the many steps necessary to address our long-term debt, thus I insist that Senate Democrats act quickly and listen to what the American people stated back in November.”
02.28.2011	Miami, FL.– El Congresista Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) hizo la siguiente declaración en el primer aniversario del fallecimiento del héroe cubano Orlando Zapata Tamayo:“Hoy recordamos con profunda tristeza el primer aniversario del fallecimiento de Orlando Zapata Tamayo, héroe de la causa de la libertad de Cuba y luchador incansable por el respeto a los derechos humanos en la isla.”“Zapata Tamayo fue encarcelado el 20 de marzo del 2003 por el régimen Castrista. El 3 de marzo del 2009, Zapata comenzó una huelga de hambre en protesta a las pésimas condiciones y el maltrato dentro de la prisión. Tras haber sido golpeado y sometido a todo tipo de vejaciones, Zapata murió en la prisión. Después de su muerte, el régimen se ha ensañando con toda su familia, principalmente con su madre, la Dama de Blanco Reina Luis Tamayo”, añadió Diaz-Balart.“Los días del régimen están contados. Los crímenes cometidos por la dictadura quedarán grabados como una de las etapas más crueles de la historia, pero la vida de Orlando Zapata Tamayo y la de otros cientos de héroes y mártires cruelmente encarcelados y asesinados por el régimen, serán por siempre recordadas como un vivo ejemplo del coraje y el heroicidad de los cubanos que han combatido la dictadura y arriesgado hasta su propia vida,” concluyó el Congresista.
02.23.2011	Miami, FL. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) comments on the one-year anniversary of Orlando Zapata Tamayo’s death. Diaz-Balart comments: “On this solemn day, we commemorate the first anniversary of the death of Orlando Zapata Tamayo, one of Cuba's greatest heroes.“Zapata Tamayo was imprisoned in Castro's gulag since March 20, 2003. He began a hunger strike on December 3, 2009 to protest the cruelty in Castro's prisons. Zapata Tamayo died on February 23, 2010 after he had been beaten, denied water, and forced to lay naked under an air conditioner until he developed pneumonia. Even after his death, the regime continues to torment his grieving mother, Reina Luisa Tamayo.“Zapata Tamayo's ultimate sacrifice serves as a grim reminder of the regime's egregious human rights abuses and the hundreds of other prisoners of conscience languishing in Castro's prisons. Zapata Tamayo used the only possession left to him - his own body - to bear witness to the torturous prison conditions that he witnessed. His strength in the face of brutality powerfully demonstrates the tenacity of the Cuban people in their struggle for freedom.“The regime's days are numbered. While the dictatorship and its ruthless depravity will soon be relegated to the ash heap of history, the heroism of people like Orlando Zapata Tamayo will be honored and celebrated for years to come.”
02.22.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) made the following statement upon the passage of H.R. 1, the Continuing Resolution (CR). Diaz-Balart comments:“The time has finally come to restrain runaway spending. These reductions are essential in order to revive our economy and create jobs for the American people. The Obama administration’s out-of-control spending has not led us into prosperity; on the contrary, it has led us down the path of bankruptcy. Today, we took advantage of the opportunity to turn our country around by targeting wasteful, duplicated, and fraudulent programs that have exhausted the American taxpayer. “Last year, House Democrats failed to even propose a budget, allowing for the spending spree to continue unchecked. The reckless and irresponsible policies of the administration and previous Democrat-led Congress have not only led us into this fiscal crisis, but have also left the American people to pick up the tab.“This CR is the first step of many that are necessary to fix this fiscal mess and bring sanity and common sense into our policies. I stand ready to continue working with my colleagues to renew the American spirit of innovation, promote job creation and restart our engine of economic growth.”
02.22.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) received the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence. The Award was presented at an event sponsored by NAM member Ryder System, Inc. in Miami, Florida. Diaz-Balart comments:“I am honored to receive an award that symbolizes a pro-manufacturing agenda for economic growth and job creation. During a time of unprecedented debt and record high unemployment, it is important that we adopt common-sense policies that allow the private sector to create jobs and get our economy back on track. I am committed to continue working in Washington towards policies that will create and maintain jobs in Florida and throughout our country to ensure we stay ahead of our global competition.”
02.19.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) made the following statement upon the passage of H.R. 1, the Continuing Resolution (CR). Diaz-Balart comments: “The time has finally come to restrain runaway spending. These reductions are essential in order to revive our economy and create jobs for the American people. The Obama administration’s out-of-control spending has not led us into prosperity; on the contrary, it has led us down the path of bankruptcy. Today, we took advantage of the opportunity to turn our country around by targeting wasteful, duplicated, and fraudulent programs that have exhausted the American taxpayer. “Last year, House Democrats failed to even propose a budget, allowing for the spending spree to continue unchecked. The reckless and irresponsible policies of the administration and previous Democrat-led Congress have not only led us into this fiscal crisis, but have also left the American people to pick up the tab. “This CR is the first step of many that are necessary to fix this fiscal mess and bring sanity and common sense into our policies. I stand ready to continue working with my colleagues to renew the American spirit of innovation, promote job creation and restart our engine of economic growth.”
02.18.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement regarding the two-year anniversary of President Barack Obama signing the economic “stimulus” bill. Diaz-Balart comments:“Today marks the two-year anniversary of President Obama’s so-called ‘stimulus’ that was supposed to immediately create 3.5 million jobs and maintain the unemployment rate below 8 percent. After two years, the American people have yet to see the 3.5 million new jobs they were promised. Instead, they got a record 21 months of unemployment at 9 percent and $1 trillion of added debt.“This package has been a colossal failure. Americans need, want, and deserve better than a false bill of goods. Thanks for stiffing American families with the bill, Mr. President.”
02.14.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) issued the following statement in regards to President Obama’s FY2012 Budget. Diaz-Balart comments:“President Obama’s budget neglects the fiscal and economic challenges facing our country. Instead, he proposes continued runaway spending and borrowing that will only accelerate us into bankruptcy. The President’s budget proposes we head down the same unsustainable path we have been on for the past two years, resulting in record high unemployment and unprecedented debt and deficit. If families are forced to ‘live within their means,’ the federal government should do the same; yet, Obama’s budget sets $8.7 trillion aside in new spending and calls for a job-crushing $1.6 trillion tax hike on families, small businesses, and job creators.“While President Obama refuses to fulfill his role as chief executive and lead our country into prosperity; my Republican colleagues and I will continue to propose and advance different strategies to promote job creation, innovation, and help restart economic growth.”###
02.04.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) made the following statement on the Cuban regime's intent to seek a 20-year prison sentence for U.S. contractor Alan Gross. Diaz-Balart comments:"It is outrageous that the tyrants in Cuba have finally decided to charge Alan Gross after holding him hostage for more than a year. The farce of a trial that will likely follow will only underscore the futility of negotiating with some of the world's worst human rights abusers. "While the Obama administration has decided to unilaterally provide concessions and channel additional U.S. dollars to one of the world’s most repressive regimes, the regime responds with a slap in the face. Even worse, loosening the restrictions on travel only puts more Americans at risk. This proves once again that you simply cannot negotiate with terrorists. "We must reverse this misguided policy of appeasement and protect U.S. citizens from these ruthless dictators."###
01.30.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) was appointed by Chairman Hal Rogers (R-KY) to serve as the Vice Chair of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services. “It is an honor to serve as the Vice Chair of the Financial Services Subcommittee, I thank Chairman Rogers and my colleagues for this opportunity. We have a difficult workload confronting us, but I will work relentlessly with my colleagues to prioritize spending and pass a responsible federal budget,” said Diaz-Balart. ###
01.25.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) joins his colleagues in passing a resolution to cut spending that will direct committees to cut non-security discretionary spending to pre-bailout, pre-stimulus levels and put an end to the spending spree. Diaz-Balart comments:“Today’s resolution, to reduce spending for the remainder of the fiscal year is essential in order to counteract the repercussions of Democrats’ out-of-control spending. Democrats added approximately $3.37 trillion to the National Debt during the past two years; if they want Americans to pay their bills, they must agree to cut up their credit cards. Our country’s public debt amounts to 62 percent of our economy and for every dollar spent more than 40 cents are borrowed, these numbers are simply unacceptable and must stop now. These choices are necessary to put the nation on a path to job creation, economic prosperity and fiscal responsibility.”“Americans are struggling to find jobs, now more than ever, taxpayers need to keep money in their pockets. We need to cure Washington from the disease that has controlled it over the past two years.” ###
01.21.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will participate in the 2011 Jose Marti Parade in the City of Hialeah. Diaz-Balart comments:“The annual parade of Cuban patriot, freedom fighter and poet, Jose Marti is a special occasion where the South Florida community comes together to commemorate a hero and spread awareness on the Cuban people’s struggle for freedom. This event serves as a reminder of how precious freedom is; a principle cherished and enjoyed by all Americans.”Information regarding the parade follows:WHAT: 2011 Jose Marti ParadeWHEN: Sunday, January 23, 2011 at 10:30 a.m.WHERE: West 29th Street (Jose Marti Boulevard) in Hialeah###
01.19.2011	Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart joins Human Rights Defenders and Former Political Prisoners on the State of Human Rights in ChinaWashington, DC – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will join human rights defenders and former political prisoners on the State of Human Rights in China, immediately following the House Foreign Affairs Committee Briefing on China. Amnesty International, Foreign Policy Initiative, Freedom House, Freedom Now, Human Rights First, Human Rights Watch, the International Campaign for Tibet, the Project 2049 Institute, Reporters Without Borders and the Uyghur American Association will hold a press availability and has released the following information:WHAT: State of Human Rights in ChinaWHEN: Wednesday, January 19th at 1:00 - 2:00 p.m.WHERE: 2255 Rayburn House Office Building“We cannot lose sight of the millions of Chinese people that are denied the freedom of speech, religion, petition or assembly year after year. This is unacceptable and we must help the Chinese people from such oppression,” said Diaz-Balart. ###
01.19.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) voted to repeal ObamaCare, the health care law that is destroying jobs across America. Diaz-Balart states the following:“My vote to repeal the job-destroying healthcare law is necessary to grow our economy and to help businesses create jobs. At a time when roughly 15 million Americans are searching for work, the President’s healthcare bill makes it nearly impossible for small businesses to hire workers, leaving millions of Americans in distress. ObamaCare raids half a trillion dollars from Medicare, jeopardizing seniors’ access to the care they need and deserve. Instead of expanding the size and scope of government, I will work with my colleagues to enact a reform that will lower costs for families and small businesses, increase access to affordable, high-quality care and strengthen the doctor-patient relationship. Americans want improvements to the nation’s health care system, without attachments of new mandates, tax hikes, and $2.6 trillion in new government spending.”“We need to repeal this law that makes healthcare coverage more expensive for millions of Americans and will drive this country into bankruptcy, leaving the burden on the backs of our children and grandchildren.” ###
01.14.2011	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) appalled by the Obama Administration's decision to ease sanctions regarding travel and remittance to Cuba. Diaz-Balart states the following:"Any kind of appeasement toward a terrorist regime is unacceptable and endangers our national security. The Administration should not permit the loosening of these sanctions while the Castro regime holds an American hostage. Appeasement will only empower and promote the regime while hindering the freedom of the Cuban people.“Every time the Obama Administration has granted the regime new concessions the Cuban people in return get increased repression. The Obama Administration must realize that appeasing to a ruthless dictator is not the answer today, tomorrow, or ever. Rather than channeling additional U.S. dollars to an ailing regime and state sponsor of terror, the administration should focus on strengthening the brave pro-democracy opposition, which continues to gain ground in Cuba. ” ###
01.12.2011	WASHINGTON, DC- Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) recalls the devastating news he received one year ago on this very day, January 12th. Congressman Diaz-Balart comments:“Today we remember the victims of the devastating tragedy that shook Haiti one year ago. As I reflect on the catastrophic natural disaster that killed and injured hundreds of thousands of lives and left numerous homes and buildings in ruins, I must also recall how we came together as a Nation providing aid and assistance to the people of Haiti. The generous spirit of the American people perseveres and we will continue to help our neighbors in Haiti. I realize the road to recovery is far from over and that many Haitians continue to seek aid, therefore, we must not lose sight of their struggle and condition. I recognize the people in South Florida and across the country who selflessly volunteered and donated to Haiti, making a significant difference in the lives of many. My thoughts and prayers continue to be with the victims, their families and all Haitians affected as a result of the earthquake.” Congressman Diaz-Balart made a visit to Haiti in June 2009 with the Miami-Dade Delegation showing support to the Haitian people. Diaz-Balart returned to Haiti in March 2010 to assess the damage caused by the earthquake and demonstrate his continued support to our neighbors in Haiti. ###
01.08.2011	Miami, FL – Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) issued the following statement regarding the unfortunate tragedy against Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords (D-AZ) and members of the public earlier today in Tucson, AZ:“My thoughts and prayers are with Congresswoman Giffords, members of her staff, and their families. I applaud her service to our Nation and to her constituents and condemn this cowardly and despicable attack. I will continue to pray for her recovery and that she may join us again on Capitol Hill.” ###
01.07.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today U.S. Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) was appointed to serve on the Subcommittees of Transportation and Housing, State and Foreign Operations, and Financial Services of the Appropriations Committee. Diaz-Balart previously served on the Transportation and Infrastructure and the Budget Committees since coming to Congress in 2003. He also served on the Science and Technology Committee.“During a time of out-of-control government spending and record deficits, I am committed to the historic challenges ahead by ending the reckless spending spree, promoting fiscal responsibility, prioritize spending, and reducing the size of government. Regardless of the monumental challenges that await, I am honored to be a member on the Committee of Appropriations and to serve on three subcommittees. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle in the 112th Congress to get America back on a track towards fiscal sanity,” said Diaz-Balart.The Subcommittee of Transportation and Housing includes jurisdiction over the Departments of Transportation and Housing and Urban Development, National Transportation Safety Board, FAA, and the Federal Highway Administration. The State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee jurisdiction includes, but not exclusive, to the following: Department of State, Foreign Military Financing Programs, International Military Assistance and Training, International Monetary Fund, and Office of Cuba Broadcasting. Diaz-Balart will work with his colleagues to ensure continued support to Israel, Plan Colombia and The Merida Initiative. The jurisdiction of Financial Services includes: Department of the Treasury, The Judiciary, Consumer Product Safety Commission, IRS, and OMB. ###
07.06.2010	MIAMI—On Wednesday, July 7th Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will join the Independent Venezuelan American Citizens (IVAC) and the Venezolanos Perseguido Políticos en el Exilio (VEPPEX) at the Hilton Garden Inn Miami in their celebration of Venezuelan Independence Day. Diaz-Balart will be presenting a Congressional Record honoring the Venezuelan Exile Community of South Florida, which celebrated Venezuela’s Independence from Spain on July 5th.Excerpts from Congressional Record:“The Venezuelan people know and love freedom, but that land of heroes has been hijacked by a crazy, corrupt, dictator, Hugo Chavez.As Chavez furthers his corrupt and anti-democratic activities in our hemisphere, the United States must stand firm on the side of freedom and support our democratic allies in the region and all the people who value democratic principles, both inside and outside of Venezuela.I want to thank and commend all Venezuelans living in exile in the United States for their dedication and commitment to preserving their culture and ensuring that freedom, democracy and justice once again ring true in Venezuela.” –Rep. Mario Diaz-BalartWHAT: Venezuelan Independence Day Celebration and presentation of Congressional RecordWHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart, the Independent Venezuelan-American Citizens (IVAC), and the Venezolanos Perseguido Políticos en el Exilio (VEPPEX)WHEN: Wednesday, July 7, 2010 at 11:00 a.m.WHERE: Hilton Garden Inn, 3550 NW 74th Ave. Miami Fl. 33122
07.01.2010	TUNE IN and watch Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart as he speaks onImmigration ReformCNN with John King Live Tonight at 7:00 p.m.VEA HOYDiaz-Balart por CNNEl Congresista Mario Diaz-Balart hablará sobre la Reforma MigratoriaCNN con John King en vivo a las 7:00 p.m.
06.23.2010	WASHINGTON, DC—Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) made the following statement about the dismissal of General McChrystal:“General McChrystal’s disparaging remarks to Rolling Stone magazine were out of line and inappropriate, and therefore I recognize and respect President Obama’s right to dismiss him after those remarks. However, I am seriously concerned about what transpired that made Obama’s handpicked General, chosen by the President to lead the efforts in Afghanistan, to lose confidence in his Commander-in-Chief in such a short amount of time. General McChrystal’s loss of confidence is a serious issue that leads to questioning the reasons behind his remarks and his criticism of the President. “I have great respect for General Petraeus and trust that under his leadership we will prevail in Afghanistan. Congress and America must support General Petraeus and our troops in Afghanistan in their fight for freedom,” said Diaz-Balart.
06.17.2010	Washington, DC – Economic Development, Public Buildings and Emergency Management Ranking Member Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) highlighted the waste of taxpayer dollars represented by the Administration’s proposal for funding federal construction and leasing projects for 2011. One proposed project would renovate an over-built and over-budget courthouse that currently allows 1,500 square feet of building space for each employee – more space than many families occupy.The following is Diaz-Balart’s statement from the Subcommittee hearing on the General Services Administration’s (GSA) fiscal year 2011 Capital Improvement and Leasing Program, which includes seven alteration and modernization projects, three design projects, five construction and acquisitions projects, and five leases:“I have to say I am shocked by the tremendous waste of taxpayer dollars and the gross mismanagement of the Federal Buildings Fund that this list of projects represents. “This subcommittee has had hearing after hearing about how courthouse overbuilding and costly leasing are bankrupting the Federal Buildings Fund. Yet the Administration proposes a quarter of a billion dollars to renovate a half empty courthouse and half a billion dollars to lease an agency headquarters.“GSA proposes spending $288 million to renovate the 600,000 square foot Prettyman Courthouse. In a recent hearing GAO singled out this courthouse complex as one of the most over-built and over-budget in the country. About 400 people work in the Prettyman building, which means there are 1,500 gross square feet of building space for each employee.“How can the Administration justify spending so much money on a half empty building that won’t generate any extra revenue to the Federal Buildings Fund?“While GSA wants to pour even more money into an overbuilt courthouse, GSA is proposing a new 427,000 square foot lease for the Federal Trade Commission headquarters.“In hearing after hearing, members of this Committee have repeatedly expressed concern about the overuse of expensive leases to meet federal space needs, especially for headquarters space. And, in study after study, the GAO has warned us about the cost of leasing to meet long-term space needs.“Yet GSA proposes doubling FTC’s leased space. And, instead of consolidating the FTC headquarters into one government-owned location, FTC would operate in at least two separate locations. In addition, this proposal would move some operations out of government-owned space into leased space.“So on the one hand, GSA is proposing costly leases for the FTC headquarters and on the other hand wants to spend nearly $300 million to renovate a building that is barely used. “We have a responsibility to ensure taxpayer dollars are spent wisely. I am very concerned about how GSA is prioritizing its projects and whe
06.17.2010	WASHINGTON, DC-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) made the following statement on the handling of the BP oil spill in the Gulf Coast:“For nearly 60 days oil has been creeping onto our shoreline damaging the wellbeing and livelihood of thousands of Americans and our environment, while the Administration and BP have acted irresponsibly, lacked leadership, mismanaged this crisis, and let the bureaucratic red tape get in the way of taking any real action. “This is no time to be apologetic to the Administration and much less to BP. BP must be held accountable for the spill and its devastating aftermath. This tragedy should not be any more of a financial burden than it already is on American taxpayers. BP must pay for every penny spent on clean up and I am glad that it has already indicated its willingness to do so. The primary concern should lay with the fisherman, small businesses and communities feeling firsthand the brutal consequences of the spill, not the oil corporations,” said Diaz-Balart.
06.04.2010	WASHINGTON, DC- Congressmen Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement in response to the incident in which a so-called ‘humanitarian’ ship crew attacked Israeli security forces:“Israel has the absolute right and duty to protect itself and its citizens from terrorist organizations; it’s a matter of national security. This includes the right to board and inspect ships which are suspected of transporting weapons, possibly used to kill Israelis, and the right to confront terrorist organizations such as Hamas in Gaza. It is well documented that terrorist organizations, such as Hamas and Hezbollah, and state-sponsors of terrorism, like the dictatorships in Iran and Syria, falsely use the cover of “humanitarian efforts” to shield their illicit efforts to transport weapons. At this time it is vitally important that the United States stand with Israel’s right to defend its civilians from national security threats and work to stop international efforts, such as in the UN, to use this incident to bash Israel.”
05.27.2010	2010 Hurricane Season to Kick Off Next Week WASHINGTON, DC—This week, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) introduced H. Res. 1388, a resolution supporting the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s (NOAA) National Hurricane Preparedness Week, which began on May 23rd and runs until the 29th. Hurricane Season kicks off next Tuesday, June 1st.“Each year Florida and coastal states in the U.S. face the threat that Hurricane season brings, and it is one that cannot be taken lightly. It is vital that we take the proper measures to prepare our families and communities and secure our homes. “Once again NOAA is hosting National Hurricane Preparedness Week to create awareness leading up to the start of the season. I commend the staff of the National Hurricane Center and the National Weather Service for their commitment to ensuring the safety and wellbeing of Americans.“I remain hopeful that our communities will be spared from the tragedy of a storm, but we must nonetheless be prepared to face the possibility of a hurricane or natural disaster striking our coastal regions,” said Diaz-Balart. H.Res.1388 has the bipartisan support of 16 Members of Congress, and it urges Americans to be aware of the potential risks posed by hurricanes and to take action in preparing for the fast-approaching 2010 season. It also supports the goals and ideals of National Hurricane Preparedness Week and recognizes the outstanding work of staff at NOAA, including those at the National Weather Service and National Hurricane Center, in predicting hurricanes and preparing the community. Useful links:NOAA’s Hurricane Preparedness Week websiteFEMA preparedness websiteH. Res. 1388
05.25.2010	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Economic Development, Public Buildings and Emergency Management Subcommittee Ranking Member, today called the more than $800 million in tax dollars wasted on unnecessary courthouse construction an “appalling” example of government waste and mismanagement.At a Congressional hearing today, the Subcommittee heard testimony from the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO), which is working to finalize a report on the multibillion-dollar courthouse construction initiative of the federal judiciary and the General Services Administration (GSA).The following is Rep. Diaz-Balart’s statement:“For almost two decades, this committee has been one of the few voices to question the size and scope of the courthouse program. We have argued for smaller courthouses, courtroom sharing by judges, and stronger GSA management of the program.“Although we suspected courthouses were being overbuilt and courtrooms were largely unused, we never had the hard data to confirm our fears. Today the General Accountability Office is going to present its review of every courthouse constructed in the last ten years.“The findings of government waste, mismanagement, and disregard for the congressional authorization process are appalling.“First and foremost, there appears to be a complete breakdown in the management and oversight of courthouse planning and construction. As a result GSA built 3.5 million square feet of courthouses – costing taxpayers over $800 million dollars – which we do not need.“According to GAO three factors led to this over building:• GSA constructed courthouses that exceed authorized sizes;• Overinflated projections of future judges; and• A lack of courtroom sharing.“Specifically, the GAO reviewed 33 courthouses built since 2000 and found that 28 exceeded their congressionally authorized size limits. Many of these exceeded the authorized size by 10% and some by as much as 50%. This resulted in an extra 1.7 million square feet of space.“On top of the mismanagement, the courts continue to base their space decisions on projections that have been shown to be unreliable. Another 887,000 square feet of unneeded space was built because the U.S. courts’ model for projecting the number of future judges overestimated judges by 35%. For example, in 1995 the Long Island, New York courthouse had 14 judges and the courts estimated 25 judges by 2005. After building a brand new courthouse, there are now only 15 judges at the courthouse.“And, today, the courts continue to base their space decisions on bad projections despite nearly two decades of failed experience.“Finally, yet more space and money could have been saved had the courts instituted a courtroom sharing policy. A sharing model developed by the GAO clearly indicates that sharing could have reduced the number of courtrooms by about 40% or 950,000 square feet of space. These estimates are based on the court’s own data of courtroom usage, including cancelled events and non-judicial ceremonial uses.“We hold a trust for the American people and it seems that trust has been broken.“Courthouses have been built too big for too long and for far more money than was needed. While it is important for the judiciary to have appropriate space to carry out its constitutional functions, we also must ensure that we are good stewards of taxpayer dollars.”
05.25.2010	WASHINGTON, DC-This week Congresswoman Corrine Brown (FL-3) and Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) filed a lawsuit in Tallahassee seeking to strike a deceptive Ballot Amendment from the November 2010 Ballot. Brown and Diaz-Balart contend that the Ballot Summary for the proposed Amendment 6 creates false expectations and promises, and was drafted to mislead voters. Rather than empower minority voters, Amendment 6 will significantly dilute Minority voting strength in Florida.“Amendment 6 is riddled with inconsistencies and if passed, would set unworkable standards in drawing districts,” said Diaz-Balart. Amendment 6 requires the creation of “Compact Districts”, while at the same time requiring that the Legislature use existing city and county boundaries, wherever feasible. Most of Florida’s municipalities do not have compact borders. Therefore, it is functionally impossible to comply with both standards. In that regard, the Amendment is crafted to ensure litigation over the plans, when one or the other standard is necessarily not complied with.Moreover, the impact on minority representation will be drastic. “Amendment 6 is nothing more than a dressed-up attempt to reduce minority representation,” said Brown. “Minority communities don’t live in compact cookie-cutter neighborhoods. The requirement of compactness will defeat the ability of the Legislature to draw viable access and Majority-Minority seats. This Amendment is nothing more than a deceitful attempt to turn the clock back to the days before 1992 when Florida did not have any African-American representation in Congress.”The proposed Ballot Summary of Amendment 6 promises that Congressional Districts will be drawn to allow minorities to elect their chosen Representatives. However, the Amendment, if passed, would prevent any district from being drawn that would favor or disfavor a political party or an incumbent resulting in the lack of ability to draw minority districts.“The reality is that minority constituents are overwhelmingly registered in one party. This requirement may prohibit drawing of Minority-Majority Districts and Minority Access Districts that exist today, since drawing a similar district will necessarily favor the incumbent or the political party to which he or she belongs,” said Diaz-Balart.“The legal protections to ensure fair Redistricting that have existed for decades, including the Voting Rights Act, have been used effectively in the last two decades to increase Minority representation and provide Minority Communities an equal opportunity to elect candidates of their choice,” said Representative Brown. “Not only will this not remedy any claimed injustice, but also take us back to the days when the rights of Minority Communities to effectively participate in the political process will take a back seat to the Special Interests that promote this Amendment.”For more than 20 years, Brown and Diaz-Balart have been fighting for fair minority representation and were successful in a 1992 lawsuit against the state of Florida that allowed minorities to elect representatives of their choice. If passed, Amendment 6 would revert redistricting in Florida back to the days of unfair representation and voters will be disenfranchised from being able to vote for candidates of their choice.
05.10.2010	High School Student Artwork Submissions to be Displayed at Open House MIAMI—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will host the annual Congressional Art Competition “An Artistic Discovery” this Friday, May 14 at 4:00 p.m. in his Miami District Office. “Each year the art competition provides an opportunity for students in our community to showcase their amazing talent and creativity,” said Diaz-Balart. “I look forward to meeting this year’s participants and congratulating them in person for their extraordinary work,” said Diaz-Balart. The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 as a way to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of young constituents. Since then, over 650,000 high school students have participated in the nationwide competition, which is hosted by the U.S. House of Representatives. Each spring a winner is selected from each Congressional District in the U.S. This year, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart received more than 80 submissions of art work from students in Miami-Dade and Collier Counties, which will be on display at the open house this week. The winning artwork from District 25 will be announced in the coming weeks and will be displayed for one year in the U.S. Capitol in Washington, DC. WHAT: Congressional Art Competition Open House to display artwork submissions from students participating in the national Congressional Art Competition—Open to the PressWHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart and high school students from District 25WHEN: Friday, May 14, 2010 at 4:00 p.m. WHERE: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart’s District Office, 12851 SW 42nd Street, Suite 131 (second floor), Miami, FL 33175
05.06.2010	Washington, DC – The following is the statement of U.S. Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Economic Development, Public Buildings and Emergency Management Subcommittee Ranking Member, from today’s hearing on the proposed fiscal year 2011 budgets for the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the Economic Development Administration (EDA):“As I have said many times before, EDA manages to do a lot with relatively little. Studies reveal that EDA programs create jobs at an average cost of $4,000 per job. And, every $1 million of EDA funding attracts $11 million of private and other public funding.“EDA programs are an example of how to get real return on investment. In reviewing the proposed budget for EDA, we must ensure new priorities are consistent with EDA’s mission and create similar results for economic growth and jobs.“FEMA’s mission, as we all know, is critically important to our nation and the Administration proposes a number policy changes. Like with EDA, we must closely evaluate proposals for changes in programs and policies to ensure they are consistent with FEMA’s role and mission.“For example, the Administration proposes the consolidation of FEMA’s state and local programs into the larger State Homeland Security Program. Combining programs that require a nexus to terrorism with those intended to be all-hazard, like Citizen Corps, is likely to create confusion and add to the administrative burden on the states rather than streamline it. “In addition, it will be important for this subcommittee today to understand the proposal to modify Pre-Disaster Mitigation (PDM) to include a FEMA-HUD partnership on sustainable communities. Studies have shown that mitigation dollars funded through programs like PDM go a long way to minimize damage and save lives. The CBO has determined that for every dollar invested in mitigation three dollars are saved in future loses. Ensuring that any new initiative for these funds will provide a similar return is critical to maximizing the impact of scarce mitigation dollars.“Finally, I hope to hear from our witnesses today on other key issues related to the roles of FEMA and EDA in the work of the Long-Term Recovery Working Group and any progress FEMA has made on its review of regulations and policies to better prepare for and respond to widespread disasters.“I would also like to recognize the urgent need for Congress to approve the supplemental appropriations for the Disaster Relief Fund. With the ongoing recovery efforts in Louisiana, the recent flooding in parts of our nation and the beginning of hurricane season, we must ensure the dwindling funds in the DRF are replenished.”The Administration’s fiscal year 2011 budget proposes $246 million for EDA’s assistance programs. The Administration’s budget proposal also proposes $7.3 billion for FEMA, and $5.1 billion in supplemental appropriations has been requested for the Disaster Relief Fund.
04.30.2010	MIAMI, FL–The House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials will host a field hearing in Miami on High-Speed Rail titled “Intermodal High-Speed Rail Connections” this Monday, May 3rd at 2:00 p.m. at Miami-Dade College Wolfson Campus. The hearing is open to media and the general public.Members of Congress present will include:Rep. James L. Oberstar (Minn.), ChairmanRep. John Mica (Fla.), Ranking RepublicanRep. Corrine Brown (Fla.), Chairwoman of the Rail SubcommitteeRep. Bill Shuster (Pa.), Ranking Member of the Rail SubcommitteeRep. Mario Diaz-Balart (Fla.), Ranking Member of the Economic Development, Public Buildings, andEmergency Management Subcommittee and Host City CongressmanWitnesses expected to testify include:Joseph C. Szabo, Administrator of the Federal Railroad Administration,U.S. Department of TransportationStephanie C. Kopelousos, Secretary of the Florida Department of TransportationJoseph J. Giuletti, Executive Director of the Tri-County Commuter Rail Authority (Tri-Rail)Drew Galloway, Assistant Vice President – Policy & Development East, National Railroad PassengerCorporation (AMTRAK)Bruce Jay Colan, Chair of the Greater Miami Chamber of CommerceAna Sotorrio, Associate Director of Governmental Affairs for the Miami International AirportCesar Calvet, Chairman of the Board of the Orlando International AirportAndres Trujillo, Florida State Legislative Director of the United Transportation UnionTerry L. Dale, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Cruise Lines International AssociationFor more information or to view the live webcast of the hearing visit: https://transportation.house.gov.WHO: Members of the House Committee and Transportation andInfrastructure: Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (Fla.), Rep. James L. Oberstar (Minn.),Rep. John Mica (Fla.), Rep.Corrine Brown (Fla.) and Rep. Bill Shuster (Pa.)WHAT: House Committee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials FieldHearing on Intermodal High-Speed Rail ConnectionsWHEN: Monday, May 3 at 2:00 p.m.WHERE: Miami-Dade College Wolfson Campus, 300 NE 2nd Avenue, ChapmanRoom (Room 3210), Miami, FL 33132,MEDIA CONTACTS: Adriana Pereira at (202) 285-3073, Communications Director to Rep. Mario Diaz-BalartMary Kerr at (202)225-6260, Press Secretary for Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure DemocratsJustin Harclerode at (202) 226-8767, Communications Director for Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Republicans
04.30.2010	(WASHINGTON) – U.S. Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Ranking Republican on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, along with her colleagues, U.S. Reps. Kendrick Meek (D-FL), Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), and Connie Mack (R-FL), issued the following statement today on reports that Mahmoud Ahmadinejad will be granted a visa to visit New York next week to speak at a conference at the United Nations reviewing the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty:“It is an outrage that Ahmadinejad, yet again, will be able to preach hate and violence on American soil. “This is the leader of a regime which calls the U.S. the ‘great satan,’ threatens to wipe Israel off the map, bankrolls violent extremists across the globe, and helps fund insurgents in Iraq and Afghanistan which kill U.S. troops. “Make no mistake: Ahmadinejad’s attendance will make a mockery of a conference meant to stop the proliferation of nuclear weapons. It will also make a mockery of U.S. efforts to secure global support to stop Iran’s nuclear weapons pursuit, and it will turn the conference into yet another forum to attack Israel on a global stage. “The U.S. must not allow this dangerous tyrant to use our freedoms and our obligations as a host country for the UN to force himself upon our country to spread his message of hate and violence.”
04.29.2010	Washington, DC – At a Congressional hearing today on the proposed fiscal year 2011 budgets for regional economic development commissions, Economic Development, Public Buildings and Emergency Management Subcommittee Ranking Member Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) stressed the importance of effectively leveraging commission funding and ensuring that job creation is a priority for distressed areas of the country.Included among these commissions are the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC), the Denali Commission, the Delta Regional Authority (DRA), the Northern Great Plains Regional Authority, the Southeast Crescent Regional Commission, the Southwest Border Regional Commission, and the Northern Border Regional Commission.Diaz-Balart’s statement follows:“Congress established regional commissions to focus investment in areas of distress in our nation. Unfortunately, there are many areas of our nation that have chronic unemployment, high poverty rates, and lack the infrastructure and other resources to spur private investment in their communities. These commissions were created to help spur economic development and job creation in these communities.“The regional commissions are federal and state partnerships, focused on helping chronically distressed communities to generate sustainable economic development. The commissions have relatively small budgets and those that are represented here today are requesting level funding for fiscal year 2011.“Generally, these commissions have effectively leveraged tax dollars with private investment, spurring job growth. For example, in a 2007 report on ARC infrastructure and public works projects, a sampling of just a quarter of ARC’s projects revealed that more than 17,000 new jobs were created. These projects expanded the annual personal income by $1.3 billion. Of the 78 projects reviewed in the report, $1.7 billion of private investment was leveraged at a ratio of $75 to $1 of ARC investment. “Since it was created in 2000, the DRA has invested $75 million in 510 projects, attracting $1.5 billion in private investment. And, the DRA, as highlighted in a hearing earlier this year, uses participation agreements for its grants, requiring grantees to meet certain job creation goals. If those goals are not met, the grantee must refund a pro rata share of the grant monies. “These are just a couple of examples of how tax dollars can be leveraged to spur private investment and ensure the jobs created will last. As I have mentioned in previous hearings, the Recovery Act should have included provisions that ensured similar returns on investment to the taxpayer. As we review the budgets and priorities of these commissions, I believe it is very important that we ensure funding is leveraged effectively and job creation remains a priority for these distressed areas.”
04.29.2010	Urge President Obama to Back Comprehensive Immigration Reform, DREAM ActWASHINGTON, DC-Today Congressmen Mario Diaz-Balart, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Lincoln Diaz-Balart met with Felipe Matos, Gaby Pacheco, Carlos Roa, and Juan Rodriguez, also known as the Dreamers, upon their arrival in Washington, DC. The four immigrant activists embarked on a 1,500-mile walk from Miami, FL to the nation’s Capitol on January 1st to ask President Obama and Congress to pass comprehensive immigration reform and the DREAM Act. “Gaby, Felipe, Carlos and Juan represent thousands of young adults who were raised in our communities and call America home. They simply wish to pursue the American dream and have the opportunity to study, work hard and give back to this country. Their courage to tell their story, and their activism and commitment to creating awareness about the importance of immigration reform and the DREAM Act is immeasurable. America is a nation built by immigrants and our doors have always been open to those wishing to work hard and prosper. I urge President Obama to meet with these brave activists, hear their story, and come through with his promise of achieving comprehensive immigration reform.” –Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart “Many teenagers in our country are faced with the difficult possibility of having no chance of pursuing a college education after they graduate from high school based on decisions their parents took to get them to the US. This crushes the dreams of young men and women who call this country their home.The Dream Act would give these students the ability to study, work hard and achieve the American Dream. It also gives them the option of joining our Armed Forces. Gaby, Juan, Felipe and Carlos represent the hopes and aspirations that the Dream Act will make a reality.” –Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen “These young DREAMERS are helping to raise awareness on this critical legislative initiative so that innocent students aren’t subject to punishment for a decision that was not their own. It’s critically important for Congress to pass The DREAM Act, of which I am a proud co-author, as well as comprehensive immigration reform, so we can fix the United States’ broken immigration system these great students go through.” –Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart is an author of the American DREAM Act, which seeks to facilitate access to postsecondary educational opportunities for immigrant students in the U.S. who currently face barriers in pursuing a college education. Reps. Mario Diaz-Balart and Ros-Lehtinen are original co-sponsors of the legislation. All three Members of Congress continue to work towards achieving comprehensive immigration reform, and passage of the DREAM Act. For more information on the Trail of Dreams and Felipe, Gaby, Carlos and Juan, please visit: www.trail2010.org.
04.23.2010	Brings Together U.S. Agencies and Members of Congress to Discuss Contaminated Chinese DrywallWASHINGTON, DC-Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and Congressman Glenn Nye (D-VA), co-chairs of the Congressional Contaminated Drywall Caucus, hosted a meeting Thursday with the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, the U.S Department of Housing and Urban Development, and other Members of Congress to discuss the adverse affects of Contaminated Chinese Drywall, latest studies, ongoing investigations and next steps. “This issue continues to affect families in South Florida and across the nation, and has the potential of causing serious long-term health risks and financial burdens.“The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission have made recommendations on what homeowners faced with contaminated Chinese drywall can do to improve conditions in their homes. It is now necessary to develop a process to assist them on taking these steps towards improvement.“I thank my colleagues in the House, including Congressman Nye, who understand the urgency in resolving this matter and remain committed to working with me and the federal agencies involved, in finding a solution for victims of contaminated Chinese drywall.”Diaz-Balart has taken the lead in Congress calling for federal funding to conduct investigations of contaminated Chinese drywall, has introduced legislation, and has passed amendments on the issue. He also established the bi-partisan Contaminated Chinese Drywall Caucus in 2009 with former Rep. Robert Wexler of Florida. Rep. Glenn Nye of Virginia now co-chairs the Caucus with Diaz-Balart.Members of the Caucus present at the briefing included: Rep. Robert Wittman (R-VA), Rep. Deborah Halvorson (D-IL), Rep. Connie Mack (R-FL) and Rep. Gene Taylor (D-MS).
04.23.2010	Calls on Congress to Pass a Free Trade AgreementWASHINGTON, DC-This week Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) hosted a meeting with Colombian Trade Minister Luis Guillermo Plata, Colombian Ambassador to the U.S. Carolina Barco, and a bi-partisan group of Members of the U.S. House to discuss the importance of passing a Free Trade Agreement with Colombia. “The U.S. must show solidarity with the democratically elected government of Colombia and the Colombian people by prioritizing and passing a Free Trade Agreement with that nation. I urge President Obama and Democratic Leadership in Congress to allow a vote on a Free Trade Agreement with Colombia. Doing so would create jobs in the U.S., give our economy a much needed boost and strengthen our partnership with Colombia, who has proven to be a great ally and friend of the U.S..”“I thank my colleagues in the House who understand the need for a Free Trade Agreement with Colombia and are committed to working in a bi-partisan way to ensure passage.” Diaz-Balart currently serves as the founding chair of the Congressional Caucus on Colombia, established in 2009 to bring together Members of Congress interested in strengthening the partnership between the U.S. and Colombia and bringing to the House floor a vote on a Free Trade Agreement with Colombia. Members in the meeting included Gregory Meeks, Aaron Schock, Connie Mack, Charles Boustany, Henry Cuellar and Brian Baird. Recently, Diaz-Balart traveled to Cartagena, Colombia on a CODEL to take part in the World Economic Forum. He also met with Colombian President Alvaro Uribe to discuss economic growth and a Free Trade Agreement between the two countries.
04.15.2010	WASHINGTON, DC– Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) met with Georgian President, Mikheil Saakashvili, and other Members of Congress on Capitol Hill. He made the following statement of solidarity: “Congress must continue expressing solidarity with the democratically elected government of Georgia and America should continue to be a friend to the Georgian people. This thriving nation stands as a strong example of what can be accomplished through collaboration and steadfast leadership. President Saakashvilli is strong-willed, serious and committed to ensuring that democracy and freedom prevail for the people of Georgia. The world cannot forget about the recent turmoil in Georgia and the occupation of opposing forces that still remain in Georgian territory today. America cannot weaken its support of Georgia and must continue to stand as an ally to that great nation,” said Diaz-Balart.
04.14.2010	63% of District 25 has already participatedWASHINGTON, DC-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) encouraged his constituents to take part in the U.S. Census. 63% of District 25 has already done so. “The betterment of our nation and communities depends entirely on your civic engagement and activism, and that is why your participation in the Census is so critical. By taking 10 minutes to answer 10 questions, you can make a difference in funding and representation for our community. I encourage you to do your part by mailing back your Census this week so that you and your family can be counted,” said Diaz-Balart. The U.S. Census takes place every ten years and determines the amount of federal dollars allocated to the State of Florida and the amount of representation our community receives. The Census is completely confidential and takes 10 minutes to complete 10 questions. Diaz-Balart took part in the following activities supporting the Census:• Voted in favor of H.Res 1096: A resolution encouraging individuals across the U.S to participate in the Census and designates March as Census Awareness Month.• Participated in Telemundo/NBC’s Hazte Contar! (Be Counted!) PSA awareness campaign.• Participated in the Telemundo/NBC’s Hazte Contar! Capitol Hill Forum as a guest panelist.• Joined Voto Latino (Latin Vote) in their efforts to promote the importance of the Census in a Capitol Hill awareness event.
04.06.2010	MIAMI-Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) arrived in Colombia this afternoon as part of an official Congressional Delegation Visit to take part in the World Economic Forum in Cartagena, Colombia. During his time in the country, he will also be meeting with Colombian government officials, and candidates running for the office of presidency, to discuss issues such as a Free Trade Agreement, funding for Plan Colombia and U.S.-Colombia relations, among others.Diaz-Balart will host a meeting and media availability upon return from Colombia on Thursday, April 8th at Miami International Airport. Details to follow.
03.23.2010	WASHINGTON, DC- Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will host a Special Orders Hour on the Floor of the House to bring attention the unjust death of Orlando Zapata Tamayo, the recent hunger strikes by political prisoners, the deplorable conditions in Castro’s jails and the human rights violations in Cuba. More importantly, Diaz-Balart takes the floor a commitment to stand in solidarity with the people of Cuba, as they continue their fight for freedom and democracy. WHAT: Special Orders on CubaWHEN: Tonight, March 23, 2010 at 6:00 p.m.TUNE IN: C-SPANWHO: Congressmen Mario Diaz-Balart and Lincoln Diaz-Balart of Florida, Dan Burton of Indiana, and others
03.21.2010	WASHINGTON, DC- Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) voted against the Obama/Pelosi government takeover of health care and made the following statement:“I strongly believe that America needs health care reform, but I cannot cast a vote for a bill that will take our country down the path of bankruptcy. This bill raids Medicare and Social Security in order to create a new government entitlement, raises taxes on our families, increases the cost of insurance premiums, kills jobs, and raises taxes on small businesses, while increasing our national debt and deficit. Our children and grandchildren will be left to pay the price. Today Democrat leadership abused and manipulated the legislative process in order to force an eventual government takeover of health care upon the American people. They drafted this legislation in secret, loading it with backroom deals for Members of their choice and prioritizing the needs of special interests, not the American people. The American people deserve health care reform that will increase access, improve quality, and lower premiums. Instead, this ill-conceived legislation will give way to an eventual government takeover of health care. It will bankrupt our country and its negative effects will be felt for generations to come.There is nothing more sacred than our freedom and democracy. Those principles are what make America the greatest country, and I will not vote to jeopardize the freedom, prosperity and opportunity of future generations.”
03.18.2010	Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart, Chair- For Immediate Release -WASHINGTON, DC-Today the Congressional Hispanic Conference made the following statement regarding the Democratic takeover of Healthcare:“The Members of this Conference strongly support healthcare reform and believe that every American deserves access to top quality, affordable healthcare, but reform should not come at the expense of our seniors, families and future generations. This bill will make massive cuts to Medicare, fatally damaging programs that help minorities, in order to help pay for a government takeover of healthcare. At a time of sustained high unemployment, this bill will continue to damage our fragile economy by imposing massive tax increases on the American people, hurting small businesses and eliminating more jobs. We will not support a bill that is being forced down America’s throat and that will take America down the path to bankruptcy.”
03.16.2010	For Immediate ReleaseWASHINGTON, DC- Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) spoke on the House floor about the importance of preserving Medicare for our seniors. View his remarks. Yesterday Diaz-Balart, a senior member of the House Budget Committee, took part in the Healthcare Reconciliation hearing and made the following statement: “The vote on the Healthcare Reconciliation measure has brought us one step closer to an unaffordable government takeover of Healthcare that is being rammed down America’s throat. This is not a practice drill. The process of imposing this against the will of the American people is happening now. “The passage of this bill will have a detrimental effect on all Americans. Seniors will suffer from a half-trillion raid to Medicare, our children and grandchildren will be left with an unsustainable debt to pay, and the average American will see painful increases in both their taxes and insurance rates.“The American people deserve Healthcare reform that will increase access, improve quality, and lower premiums, but this legislation is a government takeover of Healthcare and will do just the opposite and bankrupt our country,” said Diaz-Balart.
03.12.2010	Washington, DC--Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Ranking Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, along with her colleagues Lincoln Diaz-Balart, Mario Diaz-Balart, Kendrick Meek, Debbie Wasserman-Schultz, Connie Mack, Albio Sires and others introduced a Resolution yesterday (Thursday) in the House that recognizes the life of Cuban political prisoner Orlando Zapata Tamayo and calls for a renewed focus on the deplorable human rights situation of the Castro dictatorship. The Resolution’s introduction in the House also coincides with the State Department’s annual Human Rights Report, which correctly finds that torture, wanton arrests, total lack of freedom, oppression, repression and intimidation are the rule of law in Castro’s Cuba.Mr. Zapata Tamayo died on February 23, 2010 while in custody of the Cuban regime after enduring 80 plus days of a hunger strike to protest the sub-human conditions he endured in Castro’s jails. His mother, relatives and other human rights advocates in Cuba recount the cruel and horrid treatment his jailers gave Mr. Zapata Tamayo, even going as far as denying him water for more than two weeks.This Resolution will send a clear statement from the US House of Representatives recognizing Mr. Zapata Tamayo’s life and the lack of democracy in Cuba and the insidious and brutal mistreatment of more than 200 political prisoners detained in Cuba. It also sends a clear statement to Castro’s apologists in Congress that overtures by this Administration towards the regime have done absolutely nothing to improves Cuba’s abysmal human rights record.Said Ros-Lehtinen, “The death of Orlando Zapata Tamayo will not be in vain. This patriot’s life will be recognized by the US House and in doing so it will shine a powerful light on the deplorable human rights conditions in Cuba. Our Cuban brothers and sisters have spent half a century of misery and dictatorship living under a failed ideology and the whim of a madman. It is my hope that Orlando’s death will force the world to see the ugly truth that is the Cuban tyranny. I urge my colleagues to support this Resolution and in doing so support the struggle of the Cuban people against the brutal dictatorship.”Said Lincoln Diaz-Balart: “Like Pedro Luis Boitel, the martyrdom of Orlando Zapata Tamayo is now part of Cuba’s most glorious history. His murder by the tyrant Fidel Castro and his cowardly jailers will never be forgotten, nor will it be subject to any future statutes of limitations. Orlando Zapata Tamayo’s sacrifice will not be in vain, and he will be forever remembered with infinite honor by the Cuban Republic.”Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart stated, “With the death of Orlando Zapata Tamayo went the life of one fearless leader, but not the spirit of a nation. The Cuban people are continuing their plight for freedom and democracy and the world must stand in solidarity with them. Like Zapata, there are hundreds of pro-democracy leaders in Cuba that will continue to make a strong statement, one of democracy, liberty, and respect for human life and dignity. We must ensure that the memory and legacy of Orlando Zapata Tamayo not be forgotten and that they live on through the actions of his fellow Cubans and the support of this Congress and all freedom-loving people around the world.” “In honor of Orlando Zapata Tamayo’s struggle and sacrifice, we must ensure that his message of freedom and respect for life lives on. As the atrocities he fought against remain the reality of Cuba today, we must continue to fight for human rights and the release of the hundreds of prisoners of conscience that remain behind bars in Cuba,” said Congressman Albio SiresResolución Reconociendo La Vida De Orlando Zapata TamayoWashington, DC-- La Congresista Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Líder de los Republicanos en el Comité de Asuntos Exteriores, junto a sus colegas Lincoln Diaz-Balart, Mario Diaz-Balart, Kendrick Meek, Debbie Wasserman-Schultz, Connie Mack, Albio Sires y otros introdujeron una Resolución ayer, jueves, en la Cámara honrando la memoria del preso político cubano Orlando Zapata Tamayo y hace un llamado a un nuevo enfoque sobre la deplorable situación de los derechos humanos en la dictadura castrista. La presentación de la Resolución en la Cámara coincide también con el informe anual sobre los derechos humanos del Departamento de Estado, que correctamente concluye que la tortura, arrestos arbitrarios, una total falta de libertad, opresión, represión e intimidación es la norma en la Cuba de los Castros.Zapata Tamayo murió el 23 de febrero del 2010 estando bajo la custodia del régimen y después de más 80 días en una huelga de hambre para protestar las infrahumanas condiciones de su encarcelamiento en las cárceles castristas. Su madre, familiares y compañeros de lucha describen el cruel y despiadado maltrato que recibió Orlando de quienes le negaron agua para beber por más de dos semanas.Esta Resolución le enviara una clara declaración por parte de la Cámara reconociendo la vida de Zapata Tamayo y la falta de democracia en Cuba al igual que el insidioso y brutal maltrato a los más de 200 presos políticos pudriéndose en las cárceles del régimen. También le envía un claro mensaje a los apologistas de Castro en el Congreso afirmando que esta Administración hacia no ha hecho absolutamente nada para mejorar el abismal record de derechos humanos en la isla.Destacó Ros-Lehtinen: “La muerte de Orlando Zapata Tamayo no será en vano. La vida de este patriota será reconocida por la Cámara y así enfocara una brillante luz sobre las deplorables condiciones de los derechos humanos en Cuba. Nuestras hermanas y hermanos cubanos han pasado medio siglo de miseria y dictadura bajo una fracasada ideología. Es mi esperanza que la muerte de Orlando forzara al mundo a ver la fea realidad de la tiranía castrista. Urjo a mis colegas que apoyen esta Resolución y respalden la lucha del pueblo cubano contra la brutal dictadura.”Dijo Lincoln Diaz-Balart, “Como Pedro Luis Boitel, el mártir Orlando Zapata Tamayo forma parte ya de la más gloriosa historia de Cuba. Su asesinato por el tirano Fidel Castro y sus cobardes carceleros, jamás será olvidado, ni prescribirá. Su sacrificio no será en vano y será recordado con infinito honor por la Republica de Cuba, por los siglos de los siglos.”“Con la muerte de Orlando Zapata Tamayo perdimos un gran líder, pero no se ha perdido el espíritu de una nación. El pueblo cubano continúa sufriendo la falta de libertad y democracia y el mundo debe mostrarle su solidaridad. Como Zapata, hay cientos de líderes en Cuba que van a continuar luchando por la democracia, la libertad, y por el respeto a la vida y la dignidad. Tenemos que asegurar que la memoria y el legado de Orlando Zapata Tamayo no sea olvidado y que se mantenga vivo en la lucha diaria de sus compañeros en Cuba y en el apoyo del Congreso de Estados Unidos. Ellos merecen el respeto de todas las personas que aman la libertad alrededor del mundo” dijo el Congresista Mario Diaz-Balart.“En honor de la lucha y el sacrificio de Orlando Zapata Tamayo, tenemos que asegurar que su mensaje de la libertad y el respecto para la vida continúe. Como las atrocidades que luchaba contra sigue ser la realidad de Cuba hoy, tenemos que continuar esta lucha para los derechos humanos y para la liberación de los prisioneros de conciencia que quedan encarcelados en Cuba,” dijo el Congresista Albio Sires
03.10.2010	WASHINGTON, DC- Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) made the following statement regarding the release of Florida’s unemployment numbers: “Today’s news further proves the failure of President Obama’s so-called stimulus. Floridians are feeling the worst of this economic crisis and the Administration is doing nothing to create jobs. On the contrary, the policies of this Administration and Speaker Pelosi are worsening conditions for all Americans. The out-of-control wasteful spending that continues to take place in Washington is causing more damage to our economy, raising the debt that our children and grandchildren will incur, and hurting our family pocketbooks. “Some say the economy may be getting better, but that effect is yet to be felt in our neighborhoods and in our homes. Americans are still carrying the economic burden caused by Washington and are struggling to find jobs. “It is time to face our economic reality, get serious about improving conditions and put an immediate end to the spending spree that got us to this point. It is time to listen to the American people and put America and Florida back to work,” said Diaz-Balart. Today the State of Florida announced that unemployment has reached 11.9%, a record high. The number also puts Florida well past the national average, which currently stands at 9.7%. Florida received $8.9 billion in stimulus funds, which have done nothing to improve the state’s economy.
03.05.2010	MIAMI, FL– Today Congressmen Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) is taking part in a bi-partisan Congressional Delegation Visit to Port-Au-Prince, Haiti to assess the damage caused during the January 12th Earthquake and conditions on the ground. Diaz-Balart is the only Florida Member on the CODEL and is joined by 7 other House Members, and staffs from the U.S. Department of State, the U.S. House of Representatives the U.S. Senate. He will be available for interviews upon his return to Miami, tomorrow, Saturday, March 6, 2010 at 10:00 a.m. at Miami International Airport. WHO: Congressmen Mario Diaz-BalartWHAT: Media availability upon return to Miami, FL from HaitiWHEN: Tomorrow, Saturday, March 6 at 10:00 a.m.WHERE: Miami International Airport, Consular Lounge in Concourse F (the Consular Lounge is located on the right hand side, beforereaching the Concourse F checkpoint)MEDIA CONTACT: Adriana Pereira, Communications Director, at (202) 285-3073 *CONFERENCIA DE PRENSA EL SÁBADO *Diaz-Balart visita a Haití Convocará una conferencia de prensa en su retornoMIAMI, FL- El Congresista Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) hoy tomó parte de una delegación bipartidista del Congreso (CODEL) que viajó a Port-Au-Prince, Haití, para evaluar los daños causados por el terremoto del pasado 12 de enero y las condiciones actuales del país. El Congresista Diaz-Balart, el único congresista de la Florida que participó en el CODEL, fue acompañado por siete otros congresistas, y personal del Departamento de Estado, la Cámara de Representantes, y el Senado de Estados Unidos.Diaz-Balart estará disponible a la prensa al regresar a Miami, mañana, sábado 6 de marzo de 2010, a las 10:00 a.m., en el Aeropuerto Internacional de Miami.QUIÉN: El Congresista Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL)QUÉ: Conferencia de prensa al regresar a Miami proviniendo de HaitíCUÁNDO: Mañana, sábado 6 de marzo, a las 10:00 a.m.DÓNDE: El Aeropuerto Internacional de Miami, el Salón Consular (Consular Lounge), localizado en el Terminal F a mano derecha antes de llegar al retende seguridad del terminal.CONTACTO: Adriana Pereira, Directora de Comunicaciones, (202) 285-3073
03.05.2010	WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) departed early this morning on a bipartisan Congressional Delegation Visit to Port-Au-Prince, Haiti to assess the damage caused during the January 12th Earthquake and conditions on the ground.“Nearly two months after a tragic earthquake struck Haiti, people are still struggling to rebuild their lives, and the path to recovery is a long one. As I return to Haiti, I am prepared to see a much different picture than when I last visited in June. I am also committed to continue supporting and aiding the people of Haiti as they pick up the pieces and begin rebuilding. I thank the American people for their response and outpouring of support thus far, but also remind them that this is just the beginning and the U.S. must stand as Haiti’s strongest ally and friend in this great time of need.”In June of 2009, Diaz-Balart traveled to Haiti on a bipartisan CODEL, along with Members of the South Florida Delegation, and met with Haitian President René Préval and other key leaders in the Haitian business community and various non-governmental organizations.
03.04.2010	Washington, DC- Representatives Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), and Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), sent the following letter to President Obama today requesting support for earthquake stricken Chile:Dear Mr. President:We write to express our deep concern over the devastation suffered by the people of Chile as a result of the magnitude 8.8 earthquake that struck near the city of Concepcion on February 27, 2010. The earthquake and subsequent aftershocks have led to the deaths of nearly eight hundred people and have caused damages affecting nearly two million people. We appreciate your prompt offer of support to President Michelle Bachelet on the day of the earthquake. We also deeply appreciate that Secretary of State Hillary Clinton personally provided twenty-five satellite phones to President Bachelet during her recent trip; that was an especially commendable gesture. We also understand that cash assistance, hundreds of rolls plastic sheeting, and additional personnel have already been provided by the U.S. State Department and USAID to assist with Chile’s recovery efforts.We respectfully urge you to expeditiously follow through on the Secretary’s promise to send additional communications equipment, water purification units, electricity generators, medical supplies and portable bridges. Furthermore, we urge you to send additional equipment, such as portable kitchens and helicopters, which Secretary Clinton indicated may also be sent and which would be a great help to the people of Chile. Thank you for your support and timely outreach to the people of Chile during this trying time. We hope that your administration will continue to make every effort to support them as they seek to rebuild their country in the wake of the devastating earthquake. Sincerely,Lincoln Diaz-Balart Ileana Ros-LehtinenMario Diaz-Balart
03.04.2010	Washington, DC – The following is the statement of U.S. Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Economic Development, Public Buildings and Emergency Management Subcommittee Ranking Member, from today’s hearing on addressing disasters in cities and the recommendations of the U.S. Conference of Mayors:“In January, the U.S. Conference of Mayors’ Stafford Act Reform Task Force issued its recommendations on how we can better prepare for, mitigate against, and respond to future disasters. As a member from the State of Florida – a state that sees its share of disasters – I appreciate the experience and work the Task Force members put into developing their recommendations.“Hurricane Katrina was a wake up call. It has now been nearly five years since Hurricane Katrina hit the Gulf Coast and devastated parts of Louisiana, Mississippi, Texas and Alabama. “Since that time, Congress has taken a number of important steps to strengthen FEMA and our nation’s emergency management capability, including passing the Post-Katrina Reform Act. But, while that legislation took important steps to improve preparedness and response, there is more work that remains to be done.“For example, all too often, recovery following a major disaster has been slowed by bureaucratic red-tape and inflexible policies. In hearing after hearing, we have received testimony about the slow, laborious process through which communities have to navigate.“Congressman Cao of our Subcommittee has worked tirelessly to cut through that bureaucracy and free up funding for the recovery in Louisiana. Last year, Ranking Member Mica hosted two roundtables at his request to bring together FEMA and state and local representatives to work through the funding backlog. And, last year a new arbitration process was established to expedite recovery funding, which has freed up more funds for rebuilding in Louisiana. “But it should not have to take roundtables and an arbitration panel to cut through the bureaucratic red-tape.“Responsible changes to the Stafford Act and FEMA policies can go a long way to speed up the recovery of communities devastated by disasters. We understand that Administrator Fugate is committed to reviewing FEMA’s policies to examine ways to streamline and improve FEMA’s role in assisting state and local communities. For example, allowing for the mitigation reconstruction of damaged structures would make more sense in many cases than simply elevating old structures to mitigate against flooding but which does little to protect against wind.“This Congress, I worked with Chairwoman Norton of the Subcommittee, along with Chairman Oberstar and Ranking Member Mica on H.R. 3377, the Stafford Act bill, which was ordered reported in November. That bill includes provisions intended to improve preparedness and mitigation, including incentives for building codes, improving the nation’s public alert and warning system, and providing for the transfer of excess goods and housing units to local communities. It also includes proposals recommended by Congressman Cao to provide more flexibility in responding to widespread disasters.“As we move forward on this important piece of legislation, input from the mayors is critical. Good planning and response to a disaster starts at the local level. We know that many mayors and local communities, unfortunately, have first-hand, practical knowledge of what may need to be changed or improved.”
03.02.2010	WASHINGTON, DC-Last week Community Health of South Florida honored Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) with the National Association of Community Health Centers’ 2010 Distinguished Community Health Superhero Award, for his efforts in strengthening, improving and maintaining access to America’s community health centers. “I am honored to receive this recognition,” said Diaz-Balart. “Our community health centers are among the finest in the nation, delivering top quality health care to those who most need it in our community. The work of the leadership and staff at Community Health of South Florida is like no other. They are true leaders who are committed to the health and wellbeing of our community and it is an honor to represent them in Congress.” President and CEO of Community Health of South Florida Colonel Brodes Hartley presented Mario with the award, along with Annie Neasman, the President and CEO of the Jessie Trice Community Health Center in Miami. Both Colonel Hartley and Ms. Neasman were in Washington, DC participating in the annual National Association of Community Health Centers conference. Diaz-Balart went on to say: “We must reform our Healthcare system and I am committed to working in a bipartisan manner to achieve real reform. Healthcare is the most important long-term crisis currently facing our nation and we must enact responsible legislation to ensure the long-term viability of our current programs as well as ensure continued access and affordability for all Americans, while being careful not to inhibit our economic growth and stability.” Photo attached: Colonel Brodes Hartley, President and CEO of Community Health of South Florida, and Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart in Washington, DC.
02.26.2010	Honors Influential African Americans on House FloorWASHINGTON, DC-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), announced that in commemoration of Black History Month, he honored three influential African American leaders from Southern Florida throughout the month of February. “This month, we celebrate and remember those who have made invaluable contributions that have truly changed the face of our nation,” said Diaz-Balart. “It is also an opportunity to reflect on the values and principles set by our Founding Fathers and how we can work together each day to ensure that our nation continues to thrive on those ideals.” “I am honored to call these Southern Florida leaders my friends and I am humbled by their activism, commitment and service to our community.” Throughout the month, Diaz-Balart honored the following African Americans, whose contributions have helped shape the community by recognizing them on the House floor. The personal stories of the following leaders were included in this month’s Congressional record:
02.25.2010	Washington, DC– The following is the statement of U.S. Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Economic Development, Public Buildings and Emergency Management Subcommittee Ranking Member, from today’s hearing on the Economic Development Administration (EDA) and lessons learned from the Recovery Act:“EDA was created to help spur job growth in economically distressed areas of the country, and given a number of studies over the years, EDA has a good track record. Studies reveal that EDA programs create jobs at an average cost of $4,000 per job, and every $1 million of EDA funding attracts $11 million of private and other public funding.“EDA grants have assisted communities devastated by natural disasters, including Homestead in South Florida, which I have the privilege of representing. Those grants facilitated private-sector investment and helped create numerous jobs. “What is critical to point out here is that EDA funds are not intended to be the sole source of funding for job creation or economic growth. Rather, EDA’s investments are put to work with private sector and local funding to ensure that when federal dollars are gone, the jobs don’t go with them. This ensures there is a real return on investment to the taxpayer.“EDA received $150 million under the Recovery Act and, as of September of last year, 100% of its funds were obligated for 68 projects. EDA did not conduct business as usual when identifying projects under the Recovery Act. EDA obligated its funds a full year ahead of schedule and modified its process to ensure the most recent data on unemployment and poverty rates were used. While there may be areas that need improvement, I believe that the EDA model should have been one that other agencies followed when allocating their Recovery Act funds.”Mr. Chris Masingill, from the Office of the Governor of Arkansas and testifying on behalf of the Delta Regional Authority (DRA) – another federal economic development agency – noted that the DRA model for investing federal economic development funds typically includes an agreement that require the grantee to meet stated outcomes. If grantees do not meet these outcomes, they must repay a portion of the funding. Diaz-Balart noted that this could serve as a model for other agencies.
02.23.2010	WASHINGTON, DC—Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) made the following statement upon learning about the death of Orlando Zapata Tamayo, an Amnesty International prisoner of conscience in Cuba:“Today the Cuban people and all freedom-loving people around the world lost a true patriot and leader of the democratic movement in Cuba. Orlando Zapata Tamayo is the latest victim of Castro’s cruelty and repression. “My thoughts and prayers are with his mother, his family, friends, and supporters, and all who take part in the struggle for freedom in Cuba each day. Orlando Zapata’s memory and legacy will not be forgotten and one day the Cuban people will witness that freedom for which he so valiantly fought. “I call on the Obama Administration to stand in solidarity with the Cuban people and stop appeasing the Cuban regime with direct talks and unilateral concessions, while heroes like Orlando Zapata continue to die in Castro’s jails,” said Diaz-Balart.
02.16.2010	Will Host Press Conference to Highlight Need for Free Trade with Allies in Latin America MIAMI—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will host a press conference in Miami this week to renew the push for passage of Free Trade Agreements with allies in Latin American like Colombia and Panama. He will be joined by Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and the Consul of Colombia Angela Suarez, as well as small business owners, exporters and importers and other community leaders in South Florida to highlight the importance and need for free trade with free and democratic allies in the region. The event will take place at IMPEL Appliances in Doral, one of many small businesses that exports goods to Colombia. WHAT: Press Conference to discuss the importance of free trade and urge Democratic leadership in Washington to bring forth Free Trade Agreements for passage in the U.S. House of Representatives WHO: U.S. Representatives Mario Diaz-Balart and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Consul of Colombia Angela Suarez, and small business leaders in the South Florida communityWHEN: Tomorrow, Wednesday, February 17, 2010 at 10:00 a.m.WHERE: IMPEL Appliances, 3305 NW 79th Avenue, Doral, FL 33122
02.12.2010	MIAMI— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will host a press conference in Miami this week to renew the push for passage of Free Trade Agreements with allies in Latin American like Colombia and Panama. He will be joined by Reps. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and small business owners, exporters and importers and other community leaders in South Florida to highlight the importance and need for free trade with free and democratic allies in the region. The event will take place at IMPEL Appliances in Doral, one of many small businesses that exports goods to Colombia. WHAT: Press Conference to discuss the importance of free trade and urge Democratic leadership in Washington to bring forth Free Trade Agreements for passage in the U.S. House of Representatives WHO: U.S. Representatives Mario Diaz-Balart, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, and small business leaders in the South Florida communityWHEN: Wednesday, February 17, 2010 at 10:00 a.m.WHERE: IMPEL Appliances, 3305 NW 79th Avenue, Doral, FL 33122
02.03.2010	Washington, DC – The following is the statement of U.S. Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Economic Development, Public Buildings and Emergency Management Subcommittee Ranking Member, from today’s hearing entitled, “FEMA’s Urban Search and Rescue Program in Haiti: How to Apply Lessons Learned at Home”:“I thank Chairwoman Norton for holding this hearing and the witnesses for being here today. I would especially like to welcome David Downey, Division Chief of the Miami-Dade County Fire Rescue Department in my District. The Miami-Dade Urban Search and Rescue Team has a long and successful track record in search and rescue operations and I appreciate their work and the work of the other teams represented here today.“The devastation and destruction that occurred on January 12th was unparalleled. It is difficult to comprehend the level of devastation unless you have been on the ground in Haiti, which is why I think it is so important to hear from the first responders here today.“I know the people of Haiti are grateful for the selflessness and bravery of those who responded to this horrific disaster.“America’s response to this tragedy is a testament to the greatness of our nation. Despite difficult economic times, the American people have responded to the devastation in Haiti selflessly by donating money, goods and services, and by donating their time and physical labor on the ground. Our government has also contributed money and assistance.“I would be remiss without recognizing the contributions of our Armed Forces, the Coast Guard, the State Department, FEMA, our state governments, and the Search and Rescue teams for their incredible generosity.“It will be years before the response and rebuilding process is complete, and those impacted will never fully recover from this devastation.“Today’s witnesses have provided some insightful suggestions, based on their expertise and experience with the disaster in Haiti, that will hopefully help us better prepare for, mitigate against and respond to the
02.01.2010	For Immediate Release:WASHINGTON, DC-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) made the following statement about Black History Month, celebrated in February.“This month, we celebrate and remember those who have made invaluable contributions that have truly changed the face of our nation. It is also an opportunity to reflect on the values and principles set by our Founding Fathers and how we can work together each day to ensure that our nation continues to thrive on those ideals,” said Diaz-Balart.
01.28.2010	Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart, Chair- For Immediate Release -WASHINGTON, DC-Today CHC Chair Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart urged President Obama to get serious about Free Trade with Colombia and Panama, following yet another promise in his State of the Union Address. “I am glad that President Obama mentioned his intent to engage in free trade with our allies such as Colombia and Panama. Free trade with free and democratic allies is an immediate and cost-free way to create jobs here at home and that is why these agreements must be a priority. “It is unfortunate, however, that the President has shown no leadership on the issue thus far. Over and over we have been promised the passage of Free Trade Agreements with these nations, but the Democratic leadership has yet to bring them forth for a vote on the House floor. “I urge President Obama to insist that his party leaders, who control of the Congressional agenda, bring forth the Free Trade Agreements with Colombia and Panama,” said Diaz-Balart. The Congressional Hispanic Conference is comprised of Members of Congress and works to promote the interests and preferred policy outcomes of Americans of Hispanic and Portuguese descent. Contact: Adriana Pereira at 202-225-2778.
01.26.2010	Tuesday January 26, 2010TUNE IN and watch Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart as he delivers the official Republican response in Spanish to the President’s State of the Union Address on Wednesday, January 27, 2010.To be transmitted on major Spanish TV Networks including CNN en Español, Telemundo, TV Azteca & Univision.Immediately following the President’s Address.Please check your local listingsSINTONICEDiaz-Balart Ofrecerá la Respuesta Republicana en Español al Discurso del PresidenteSintonice y vea al Congresista Mario Diaz-Balart ofrecer la respuesta oficial de los Republicanos en español al discurso del Presidente Obama el miércoles, 27 de enero del 2010.Sera transmitido por los medios de comunicación hispanos incluyendo CNN en Español, Telemundo, TV Azteca y Univision. Inmediatamente después del discurso.
01.15.2010	For Immediate Release:MIAMI, FL- Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) expressed his gratitude today to the Administration for granting Temporary Protected Status (TPS) to Haitians who are currently in the United States. Shortly after the devastating earthquake that hit Haiti, Congressmen Mario Diaz-Balart, Lincoln Diaz-Balart, and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen once again sent a letter to President Obama requesting TPS for Haitians who are currently in the U.S. The following day Congressman Diaz-Balart joined with a bipartisan group of 81 Members of Congress to reiterate his request to President Obama. TPS provides foreign nationals from countries hit by natural disasters or armed conflict, who are currently in the U.S., with work permits and legal status. Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) made the following statement “I am grateful that President Obama has granted TPS for Haitians currently residing in the U.S. This designation is timely, compassionate, and much needed. My office is ready to assist Haitian nationals seeking TPS.”
01.15.2010	For Immediate Release: Will Meet with Local Agriculture Industry Leaders in Immokalee, Naples to Assess Damage Caused by Recent Winter Freeze COLLIER—On Monday, Congressmen Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and Adam Putnam (R-FL) will tour Pacific Collier Fresh in Immokalee and Six L's Farm in Naples and meet with local farm workers to assess damage following the recent winter freeze in Florida. They will be discussing recovery efforts and ways in which the federal government can assist. Press is invited to attend the tours of Pacific Collier Fresh and Six L’s and take footage of the damage. Diaz-Balart, Putnam and others will be available for comment. Monday, January 18, 201010:00 am PacificCollier Fresh 925 Immokalee Road Immokalee, FL 341421:00 pm Six L's Farm 11900 Six L's Farm Road Naples, FL 34114
01.14.2010	For Immediate Release:MIAMI-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) issued the following information for constituents traveling to Haiti for recovery and relief efforts:The U.S. Department of State’s Miami Passport Agency has announced that it will open its doors for the next three consecutive Saturdays in order to assist first responders traveling to Haiti for recovery and relief efforts that may need assistance with their passports. In addition to regular business hours, the office will open on January 16th, 23rd and 30th from 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Appointments are not required. The Miami Passport Agency is located at the Omni Center at 1501 Biscayne Boulevard, Suite 210, Miami, Florida 33132. For more information please visit travel.state.gov or call the National Passport Information Center at 1-877-487-2778.
01.14.2010	For Immediate Release:MORNING11:00 a.m. Diaz-Balarts, Ros-Lehtinen to Host Press Conference on Tragedy in HaitiWHAT: Press Conference on Haiti WHO: U.S. Representatives Mario Diaz-Balart, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Lincoln Diaz-BalartWHEN: Thursday, January 14, 2010 at 11:00 a.m.WHERE: Mario Diaz-Balart’s Miami District Office, 12851 SW 42nd Street, Suite 131 (second floor), Miami, FL 33175AFTERNOON3:00 p.m. Tour and Press Availability with Mario Diaz-Balart and Local Farmers on Devastation to Agriculture as a Result of Recent FreezeWHAT: Tour of nursery and Press Availability with Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart and local farmers and nursery growers WHEN: Thursday, January 14, 2010 at 3:00 p.m.WHERE: J&C Tropicals, 17425 SW 172 Street, Homestead, FL 33030
01.13.2010	For Immediate Release:MIAMI—U.S. Representatives Mario Diaz-Balart, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Lincoln Diaz-Balart will host a press conference in Miami tomorrow about the recent tragedy in Haiti. They will be joined by leaders of the Haitian Community in South Florida and will highlight recovery and relief efforts and how South Floridians can help the people of Haiti.In June, the Members traveled to Haiti on a bipartisan CODEL and met with Haitian President René Préval and other key leaders in the Haitian business community and various non-governmental organizations.*Please note, the press conference originally scheduled for tomorrow on Free Trade Agreements will not take place in light of the tragedy in Haiti. WHAT: Press Conference on HaitiWHO: U.S. Representatives Mario Diaz-Balart, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Lincoln Diaz-BalartWHEN: Thursday, January 14 at 11:00 a.m.
01.13.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEWashington, DC- Congressmen Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), and Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), sent a letter today to President Barack Obama requesting immediate humanitarian aid for Haiti, shortly after hearing the news that a powerful earthquake struck near the capital. Additionally, in their letter to President Obama, the Congressmen reiterated their request for Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Haitian nationals residing in the U.S.“Our thoughts and prayers are with the people of Haiti tonight as emergency responders work to ensure the safety of their citizens. It is important that the U.S. make available all possible humanitarian assistance to our friend and neighbor, Haiti.” –Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-FL)"My thoughts and prayers are with the people of Haiti as they face this tragedy. I strongly urge President Obama to immediately extend any and all forms of aid to assist in recovery efforts." –Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL)"The US and the rest of the international community must get involved in assessing the needs of the Haitian people and sending the appropriate humanitarian supplies as needed in a quick yet efficient manner. The US must stop deporting Haitian nationals due to the crisis in this already devastated country.” –Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL)Please find the complete text of the letter below:January 12, 2010The Honorable Barack ObamaPresident of the United StatesThe White House1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NorthwestWashington, D.C. 20500Dear Mr. President:Earlier today a devastating earthquake struck Haiti, just a few miles from the capital, Port-au-Prince. Although the effects of the earthquake are still not fully known, it is reasonable to believe that such a powerful earthquake could have a tragic impact on the residents of Haiti, especially the nearly two million people living near Port-au-Prince. Therefore, we are respectfully requesting, in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations, that you provide the necessary emergency coordination and assistance to Haiti in order to stem a possible humanitarian crisis, and that you grant Haitian nationals in the United States Temporary Protected Status (TPS).Early reports indicate that a hospital collapsed, that roads and bridges were destroyed and that homes and other buildings have crumbled. As the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere, it is very unlikely that the country will have the necessary resources to cope with the aftermath of the earthquake, especially since Haiti is still struggling to recover after a string of natural disasters destroyed many parts of the country in recent years. Because of the horrible humanitarian crisis we believe may occur in Haiti, we are respectfully requesting that your Administration take immediate steps to assess the situation and provide humanitarian relief to Haiti. We also respectfully request that you grant TPS to Haitian nationals in the United States. The combined destruction from today’s catastrophic earthquake and the previous storms clearly makes forced repatriation of Haitians hazardous to their safety at this time. We strongly believe that it is for such a situation that Congress created TPS. Thank you for your kind consideration of this important matter.Cordially,Lincoln Diaz-Balart Ileana Ros-Lehtinen Mario Diaz-Balart
01.12.2010	For Immediate Release:MIAMI— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will host a press conference in Miami this week to renew the push for passage of Free Trade Agreements with allies in Latin American like Colombia and Panama. He will be joined by Reps. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Lincoln Diaz-Balart, small business owners, exporters and importers and other community leaders in South Florida to highlight the importance and need for free trade with free and democratic allies in the region. The event will take place at IMPEL Appliances in Doral, one of many small businesses that exports goods to Colombia. WHAT: Press Conference to discuss the importance of free trade and urge Democratic leadership in Washington to bring forth Free Trade Agreements for passage in the U.S. House of Representatives WHO: U.S. Representatives Mario Diaz-Balart, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Lincoln Diaz-Balart, and small business leaders in the South Florida communityWHEN: Thursday, January 14, 2010 at 10:00 a.m.WHERE: IMPEL Appliances, 3305 NW 79th Avenue, Doral, FL 3312
01.11.2010	For Immediate Release:WASHINGTON, DC-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement regarding the recent record-low temperatures in Southern Florida and its impact on the local agricultural community:“The recent winter chill in Southern Florida has had a devastating impact on our community’s important agricultural industry. Fruit and vegetable farmers and nursery growers from Homestead to Immokalee are feeling the effects of low temperatures, frost and ice. I am committed to working with our agricultural industry in order to ensure that federal aid makes its way onto our farms, fields and nurseries, and I am hopeful that our community can achieve a quick recovery from this hard hit.”
01.08.2010	For Immediate Release: WASHINGTON, DC-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) sent a letter to President Obama urging him to instruct the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) to reallocate all funding currently going to global warming and climate change activities to focus on tracking terrorists. The letter was also signed by Rep. Thaddeus McCotter of Michigan. “It is obvious that our Intelligence Community’s priorities are not in order. Instead of utilizing scarce assets in tracking global warming, the CIA should be focused on tracking terrorists and keeping Americans safe. It is deeply troubling that while we continue to face the serious threat of terrorism, our Intelligence Agency is focusing on polar bears and melting ice caps, rather than investing human intelligence and technology resources on preventing terror attacks and catching those who wish to do us harm. Climate change should not be funded by the CIA; rather the agency should focus its efforts and resources on prioritizing our nation’s intelligence systems and keeping American’s out of harm’s way.” In September, the CIA opened the Center on Climate Change and National Security to study global warming and has been funding the effort. Text of the letter is included below. January 8, 2010President Barack ObamaThe White House1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NWWashington, DC 20500Dear Mr. President,We share your concern for the safety and well-being of the American people and agree with your statement that America’s first line of defense is “timely, accurate” intelligence. We are deeply troubled that the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) has utilized its resources to launch and operate the Center on Climate Change and National Security, diverting precious resources, including human intelligence and technology, towards tracking melting ice caps and polar bear patterns instead of tracking terrorists. As you are aware, dozens of Federal departments and agencies are already studying the impact of global warming. Given the recent security lapses and breakdowns, including the shooting at Ft. Hood that killed 13 brave Americans and the terrorist attempt to blow up a Northwest Airline flight on Christmas Day, it is imperative that the Federal government prioritize investment in the human capital and resources necessary to make our intelligence community the best in the world as intelligence is the best defense against terrorism. We respectfully request that you instruct the CIA to reallocate all funding currently going to global warming related activities to instead focus on tracking terrorists who are intent on causing us harm.Sincerely,Mario Diaz-Balart Thaddeus McCotterMember of Congress Member of Congress
01.07.2010	For Immediate ReleaseWASHINGTON, DC-Recently, Restaurant Associates, the food service provider for the U.S. House of Representatives, announced that all tomatoes sold in the House dining facilities during the winter months will come directly from Immokalee. Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), who represents the area, praised Immokalee agricultural workers for their hard work.“I am honored that the hard work of my constituents is having a positive impact on the lives of so many of us working in and visiting our nation’s capitol every day. The agricultural workers from Immokalee work hard each day to provide high quality fruits and vegetables for all Americans. Their work is critical to Florida’s agriculture industry and I am pleased it is being recognized in the Capitol,” said Diaz-Balart. Immokalee, part of Florida’s 25th Congressional District, provides 95% of all U.S. grown tomatoes consumed by Americans from October to June each year. The agreement to bring Immokalee tomatoes to the U.S. Capitol will also pay an additional cent per pound directly to the workers.
12.17.2009	For Immediate ReleaseWASHINGTON, DC-This week Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) supported the extension of the Andean Free Trade Preferences with Colombia, Peru and Ecuador and pledged his support to continue fighting for Free Trade Agreements with Colombia and Panama. “While the Andean Trade Preferences are important for economic development and help reduce drug trafficking in those countries, it is time to engage in bilateral trade with our allies in the region. “Long term free trade agreements with Colombia and Panama are ready to be signed and implemented and need nothing more than a go-ahead from Congress. But Speaker Pelosi continues to block the agreements from coming to a floor vote. Congress has ended yet another session without passing these agreements.“At a time when Americans are losing their jobs and the economy is ailing, passing free trade agreements with our democratic allies is a common-sense way to create jobs in the U.S. and incentivize the economy while strengthening our relationship with these important partners in the region. “I will continue to push for free trade agreements with Colombia and Panama and strongly urge Speaker Pelosi to make this her first order of business upon return in the New Year,” said Diaz-Balart.
12.16.2009	For Immediate ReleaseWASHINGTON, DC- Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) introduced a bill that would prevent political consultants or paid campaign staff from receiving funds from the 2009 American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. The bill also requires that political consultants or paid campaign staff who have already received such funds return them with interest.“The stated purpose of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act was to stimulate the nation’s ailing economy. However, it is clear that the stimulus has been nothing more than a dismal failure and a shameful scam used to create expensive websites, distribute funds to non-existing congressional districts, and reward political consultants. As recent news reports have shown, stimulus funds have been funneled down to individuals and firms who engaged in campaign-related work during the previous campaign cycle. It is shameful that the Obama Administration, who claimed to stand for change, openness and transparency, is rewarding its political friends with taxpayer money while the American people continue to lose their jobs and struggle to make ends meet,” said Diaz-Balart.
12.11.2009	For Immediate Release:Leads Letter Strongly Urging Secretary Clinton to Support Democracy in Honduras, Encourage Other Nations to FollowWASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) sent a letter to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton this week expressing strong support for the November 29th national elections in Honduras. The letter was also signed by Representatives Ileana Ros-Lehtinen of Florida, Connie Mack of Florida, Lincoln Diaz-Balart of Florida, Dana Rohrabacher of California, Thaddeus McCotter of Michigan, Aaron Schock of Illinois, Doug Lamborn of Colorado, Ralph Hall of Texas, Brian Bilbray of California, Dan Burton of Indiana, and Paul Broun of Georgia.“It is critical that following the fair and transparent elections in Honduras, the U.S. remain steadfast in its support and partnership with this democratic ally. “It is troubling that the State Department continues to mettle in the sovereign affairs of the Honduran government, and that it fails to fully accept that with the election process came a much needed resolution to the political crisis of that nation. “The State Department must stand clear in support of Honduras, and do more to encourage our democratic friends and allies in the region and around the world to fully recognize the lawful election results in Honduras. It’s time to face the facts. The Honduran people have spoken loud and clear.”Members are asking that the U.S. encourage other nations in the hemisphere and around the world to recognize the results of the Honduran elections as fair and legitimate. The letter also urges that the U.S. maintain a strong partnership with Honduras, its newly and democratically elected government and its people.Text of the letter is included below: The Honorable Hillary R. ClintonSecretaryDepartment of State2201 C Street, NWWashington, DC 20520Dear Secretary Clinton,We write to express our steadfast support for the November 29th elections in Honduras.Despite the best efforts of Manuel Zelaya and his supporters to derail these elections, there was significant voter turnout. It is evident that the Honduran people are looking towards the future.The United States has always stood for liberty, democracy and the rule of law, and the Honduran election exemplifies these ideals we deeply cherish as a nation. While it is our understanding that the United States has recognized the election, it is deeply troubling and concerning that many of our allies around the world have refused to recognize the legitimate election results. We strongly urge you to work with our democratic friends and allies in the region and around the world to encourage them to fully and unequivocally recognize the lawful election results in Honduras.Now that the Honduran election “met international standards of fairness and transparency,” as characterized by Assistant Secretary Arturo Valenzuela, and the Honduran Congress voted against former president Zelaya’s restoration— both key elements of the San Jose Accord—we believe it is imperative that the United States immediately restore all U.S. visas, assistance, and cooperation.It is critical that the democratic process prevails in Honduras and that the United States maintains a strong partnership with this democratic ally.Sincerely,Mario Diaz-Balart of FloridaIleana Ros-Lehtinen of FloridaConnie Mack of FloridaLincoln Diaz-Balart of FloridaDana Rohrabacher of CaliforniaThaddeus McCotter of MichiganAaron Schock of IllinoisDoug Lamborn of ColoradoRalph Hall of TexasBrian Bilbray of CaliforniaDan Burton of IndianaPaul Broun of Georgia
12.04.2009	For Immediate Release:WASHINGTON, DC—Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) made the following statement regarding the White House Job Summit: “This Administration and Congress have misused billions of taxpayer dollars in a so-called stimulus that has proved to be a dismal failure and a colossal waste of taxpayer money. Rather than creating jobs and lowering unemployment as promised, the stimulus has instead taken our country further into debt.“Instead of pushing for job-killing policies that impose massive tax hikes, burdensome regulation and increased borrowing and deficit spending, President Obama and Speaker Pelosi should resort to common sense practices like investing in transportation infrastructure, incentivizing small businesses and moving forward on domestic energy production, all things that would create American jobs. “It is shameful that President Obama and Speaker Pelosi continue to pursue an irresponsible course of raising taxes, increasing spending, and taking the country further into debt,” said Diaz-Balart.
12.04.2009	For Immediate Release:WASHINGTON, DC—Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) made the following statement regarding the White House Job Summit: “This Administration and Congress have misused billions of taxpayer dollars in a so-called stimulus that has proved to be a dismal failure and a colossal waste of taxpayer money. Rather than creating jobs and lowering unemployment as promised, the stimulus has instead taken our country further into debt. “Instead of pushing for job-killing policies that impose massive tax hikes, burdensome regulation and increased borrowing and deficit spending, President Obama and Speaker Pelosi should resort to common sense practices like investing in transportation infrastructure, incentivizing small businesses and moving forward on domestic energy production, all things that would create American jobs. “It is shameful that President Obama and Speaker Pelosi continue to pursue an irresponsible course of raising taxes, increasing spending, and taking the country further into debt,” said Diaz-Balart.
12.02.2009	Washington, DC – The following is the opening statement of U.S. Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Economic Development, Public Buildings and Emergency Management Subcommittee Ranking Member, from today’s hearing focusing on stimulus funding for land ports of entry and border station construction. “Border stations are critical to our country for both security and trade. The Recovery Act provides GSA with $300 million for land ports of entry and border stations and GSA has identified eight projects in its spending plan for these funds. In addition, the Recovery Act also provided Customs and Border Protection with $420 million for land ports of entry within its jurisdiction. “Although the hearing today is focused on border stations, it is important to highlight ongoing concerns, generally, about the so-called stimulus bill.“On October 30th, the Administration released updated figures on the Recovery.gov website related to the number of jobs created and saved. That figure, over 640,000, was subsequently called into serious question following investigations by news organizations, the GAO, and Members of Congress. Despite the clear inaccuracy of these figures, they remain on the Administration’s website. “The American people deserve better. At the very least, they deserve to have an accurate report card of how well nearly $800 billion of their money is actually working, particularly on a website that is costing the taxpayer an astounding $18 million. “I have stated since before passage of the Recovery Act that the priority must be on stimulating the economy and creating jobs. Instead of seeing the unemployment rate decrease, we have seen an increase and now there are real questions as to how many jobs have actually been created by the Recovery Act. “As we examine the specific issue of border stations today, there are real questions as to whether the taxpayer is, in fact, getting a good return on investment. While tens of millions of dollars are going to small ports of entry with just three to five vehicles a day, none of the funds are going to some of the busiest ports like Laredo, Texas that sees nearly 60,000 travelers and trucks daily. I hope we can get answers today on how many jobs have been created and how these projects were selected.”
11.18.2009	For Immediate Release:WASHINGTON, DC- During a FOX News interview President Obama is quoted as saying, “It is important though to recognize if we keep on adding to the debt, even in the midst of this recovery, that at some point, people could lose confidence in the U.S. economy in a way that could actually lead to a double-dip recession.”Today, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) made the following statement about the President’s interview:“It is ironic that this statement comes from a President which:• Advocated a government takeover of Healthcare that would cost more than $1.3 trillion• Supports a Cap and Trade bill that increases spending by $864 billion• Passed a so-called stimulus that cost $787 billion and is advocating for a second one• Presented a budget that doubles the debt after 5 years, and triples it after 10 years• Brought the national debt to an astonishing $12 trillion• Continues a dangerous pattern of borrowing and spending The facts prove that the President’s actions contradict his words. In the face of record high unemployment and an unsustainable deficit, Speaker Pelosi and the President continue to borrow and spend at a reckless and irresponsible pace, choosing to ignore the harsh reality that Americans are facing,” said Diaz-Balart.
11.10.2009	For Immediate Release:MIAMI—Tomorrow Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will celebrate Veteran’s Day at the grand opening of the Miami VA Hospital outdoor patio. He will also honor Veterans by delivering more than 200 letters and greetings from students at Irving and Beatrice Peskoe Elementary in Homestead. The letter writing campaign was coordinated by the Armed Forces Foundation.The event will take place at 11:30 a.m. immediately following the VA Hospital’s Veteran’s Day parade and is open to press.WHAT: Veteran’s Day Celebration and Grand Opening of Patio at VA HospitalWHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-BalartWHEN: Tomorrow-Wednesday, November 11, 2009 at 11:30 a.m.WHERE: Miami VA Health System, 1201 NW 16th Street, Miami, FL 33125
11.10.2009	For Immediate Release:MIAMI—On Thursday, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will visit Irving and Beatrice Peskoe Elementary in Homestead to take part in their Armed Forces celebration. He will be speaking to fourth and fifth grade students. This week, the students wrote more than 200 letters and greetings to veterans at the Miami VA Health System, which will be delivered on Wednesday by Diaz-Balart. The letter writing campaign was coordinated by the Armed Forces Foundation.WHAT: Visit to Irving and Beatrice Peskoe Elementary to participate in their Armed Forces CelebrationWHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-BalartWHEN: Thursday, November 12, 2009 at 11:00 a.m.WHERE: Irving and Beatrice Peskoe Elementary, 29035 SW 144th Avenue, Homestead, FL 33033
11.09.2009	For Immediate ReleaseMIAMI-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart made the following statement on the 20th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall:“Today history remembers those who stood on the side of democracy. The fall of the Berlin Wall symbolized the end of oppression and the beginning of freedom, democracy and liberty for Eastern Europe. It also serves as a sign of hope for those around the world that continue to fight the reigns of communism and oppression and seek to one day live in freedom. We must not forget them and their struggle, and we should never forget the sacrifice and courage of those who brought freedom to Eastern Europe, including our own President Ronald Reagan.”
11.07.2009	For Immediate Release:Washington, DC - Today the House passed H.R.3962, which costs $1.3 trillion, raises taxes by $730 billion, makes $500 billion in cuts to Medicare, burdens our already struggling States with a $34 billion Medicaid expansion mandate and massively increases federal bureaucratic control over healthcare decisions. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office has said the bill will increase the cost of healthcare on American families.“It is unfortunate that Speaker Pelosi imposed this more than 2,000- page monstrosity on the American people that will kill jobs, devastate Medicare, impose huge tax increases and forces States to make reductions in education and public safety funding.”“The proposal I supported would have lowered healthcare premiums, increased access by guaranteeing all Americans, including those with pre-existing conditions have access to affordable health coverage, expands access through high risk pools and reinsurance programs, allows you to purchase any plan that fits your needs, even across state lines, allows small businesses and other organizations to band together to purchase affordable insurance coverage for their employees all while allowing you to keep the coverage you have and reducing the deficit by $68 billion.”“What the American people deserve and demand is responsible reform that will lower healthcare costs without raising taxes. Unfortunately the irresponsible legislation Speaker Pelosi shoved through Congress will devastate our families, seniors and small businesses with higher taxes, more government control, devastating cuts to Medicare and massive new debt on our children and grandchildren.”
11.06.2009	For Immediate Release:WASHINGTON, DC-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) made the following statement regarding the nation’s unemployment rate:“Today’s unemployment announcement is a chilling reminder that our economy is still hurting. Vice-President Biden said on September 24th about the so-called Stimulus bill, “in my wildest dreams I never thought it would work this well.” It is time for Vice-President Biden, the rest of the Obama Administration and Speaker Pelosi to wake up and face the reality that the American people are living a real-life nightmare.“President Obama promised the American people the stimulus would keep unemployment under 8% and create or save 3.5 million jobs. As reported today unemployment is now at a 26-year high of 10.2% and nearly 3 million Americans have lost their job since the stimulus was enacted. It could not be more obvious that the so-called stimulus was a dismal failure and our economy is still in peril.“To make matters worse, Democrats continue to play politics in their attempt to ram a massive government takeover of healthcare down the American people’s throats. This deeply flawed bill will bring massive tax increases, more government control, cuts to Medicare and will put our country even further in debt to China and Middle East Oil producing states.“It is time for Vice-President Biden, the Administration and the Democrats in Congress to wake up to reality and stop playing politics at the expense of the American people,” said Diaz-Balart.Today the Department of Labor announced that unemployment has reached 10.2%, surpassing the government’s projections and hitting a 26-year high. In October alone, 190,000 jobs were lost, increasing total jobs lost since enactment of the stimulus to 2.8 million. Earlier this year, the Obama Administration promised that unemployment would be capped at 8% with the passage of the stimulus and that 3.5 million jobs would be created. The opposite has happened.
11.05.2009	For Immediate Release:Washington, DC- Congressmen Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) issued the following statements criticizing President Obama’s snub today of America’s great friend and ally, Chancellor Angela Merkel of the Federal Republic of Germany. When the President’s cabinet was announced, as is customary before addresses by foreign dignitaries to joint sessions of Congress, only two of the President’s representatives (who do not hold cabinet-level positions) were present. The President’s two representatives were National Security Advisor General James L. Jones, and the General Counsel for the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Fulton.“Sending the National Security Advisor and the General Counsel of the EPA as his only representatives to attend the address to a joint session of Congress by Chancellor Merkel, constituted an unfortunate, unfriendly act by the President toward a valued friend and ally of the United States. In my 17 years in Congress, I have never seen another address by a foreign head of state or government where the President’s cabinet was so notably absent. Today’s snub of Germany, our great friend and ally, was most unfortunate.” - Congressman Lincoln Diaz-Balart.“President Obama chose to not have Members of his Cabinet present during the address to a Joint Session of Congress of the leader of one of our strongest allies and the fourth largest economy. It is inexcusable that he would choose not to send his Cabinet to listen to Chancellor Merkel’s remarks. She has time and time again proven her solidarity and friendship with the U.S. Unfortunately, President Obama has demonstrated a consistent pattern of abandoning our friends and allies to appease America’s enemies, a policy that history has shown to be a dangerous failure.” - Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart.
11.05.2009	For Immediate Release:MIAMI—This week, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) honored Breast Cancer Survivor Andrea Ivory of Miami Lakes with a Congressional Recognition for her leadership in the community and her willingness and dedication to helping others. Andrea Ivory is the Founder and Executive Director of the Florida Breast Health Initiative. In late 2006, she along with her husband Willie Ivory started the organization, which is dedicated to educating women about the importance of breast health and provides them with the resources to battle the disease. The group works to reach out to uninsured women in low-income areas who cannot afford mammograms. Staff and volunteers have knocked on more than 20,000 doors in Miami Gardens, Opa-locka, Hialeah and Northwest Miami-Dade and have offered women the opportunity to be screened in mobile mammogram units and receive other low-cost services. To date, they have facilitated over 600 free or low-cost mammograms, and as a result, discovered four cases of cancer. Andrea was recently selected as one of CNN’s Top 10 Heroes of 2009. To read her story and vote for her to be CNN’s Hero of 2009, please visit: https://edition.cnn.com/andrea.ivory.html. For more information on the Florida Breast Health Initiative, please visit: https://www.flbreasthealth.com/.PHOTO ATTACHED: Andrea Ivory receives a Congressional Recognition from Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart in Miami.
11.05.2009	Washington, DC – The Transportation and Infrastructure Committee today approved two bills to improve the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) management of resources and capacity to prepare for and respond to disasters. The Committee approvedH.R. 3377, the “Disaster Response, Recovery, and Mitigation Enhancement Act of 2009,” and H.R. 1174, the “FEMA Independence Act of 2009,” by voice vote. U.S. Rep. John L. Mica (R-FL), the Committee’s Republican Leader, and U.S. Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), the Economic Development, Public Buildings and Emergency Management Subcommittee Ranking Member, are cosponsors of both bills. The Committee was also scheduled to consider H.R. 4016, the “Hazardous Material Transportation Safety Act of 2009,” but today’s consideration was delayed pending a Congressional hearing on the bill. H.R. 3377, the “Disaster Response, Recovery, and Mitigation Enhancement Act of 2009” H.R. 3377 amends the Stafford Act, which provides FEMA authority to address disasters, and includes a number of Republican initiatives, including Rep. Mica’s provisions to allow excess emergency housing trailers and other resources to be used in disasters that do not rise to the level of a national disaster declaration. “FEMA wastes $100 million every year to store unused trailers while victims of more localized disasters sometimes find themselves without a roof over their heads,” Mica said. “Instead of throwing away millions in taxpayers’ money to park trailers in lots, we should use these assets where they are needed, or dispose of them. The bill will also allow other entities to utilize FEMA resources, such as food and ice, that the agency does not plan to use and will simply throw away.” H.R. 3377 also incorporates the Integrated Public Alert and Warning System Act, legislation previously introduced by Rep. Diaz-Balart, which requires FEMA to modernize and implement an integrated public alert and warning system. The federal government currently relies on old phone lines and archaic computers to convey emergency alerts to citizens. This reliance on outdated technology and resulting gaps in coverage means that significant segments of the population may not receive critical updates in emergency situations. “Development of the Integrated Public Alert and Warning System is a no-brainer – it has to happen,” said Diaz-Balart. “And I hope with this bill, it will happen now.” The bill also includes Diaz-Balart provisions to provide incentives for statewide building codes, which can significantly help mitigate the destruction caused by future disasters. “Building codes, as we have seen in Florida, go a long way towards savings lives and reducing the damage from disasters,” Diaz-Balart added. “We also know that mitigation saves taxpayer dollars.” Both the Congressional Budget Office and the National Institute of Building Science have determined that for every dollar invested in mitigation three dollars are saved in future disaster payments. The bill includes key provisions recommended by U.S. Rep. Anh “Joseph” Cao (R-LA) that will help to streamline and improve FEMA recovery efforts following future disasters. Representing New Orleans, Cao has been a leader on these issues and helped break loose over a billion dollars in stalled recovery funds for Louisiana. “The most important element of the Stafford Act is that it will help other jurisdictions going forward,” said Rep. Cao. “This bill actually applies lessons learned and fixes the recovery process through real and tangible solutions so that no one will have to go through what we in the Gulf States underwent after Hurricane Katrina. The committee leadership, both Republican and Democrat, realizes this is a nonpartisan issue, and I have been grateful and humbled by the level of cooperation my fellow members have shown in helping with this legislation.” H.R. 1174, the “FEMA Independence Act of 2009”H.R. 1174 establishes FEMA as an independent, Cabinet-level agency in order to improve the agency’s capacity to prepare for and manage response to disasters. FEMA was placed within the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) when that department was created, and the move has confused the chain of command and eroded FEMA’s authority to nimbly respond to disasters. “Putting FEMA in DHS hasn’t worked,” said Mica. “The Department has bled FEMA dry of resources, personnel, and the authority to manage a large disaster. Elevating FEMA as an independent agency will ensure a clear and direct chain of command from the President.” “When FEMA was included in DHS, many thought it would improve the agency’s ability to respond to disasters, but unfortunately that has not been the case,” added Diaz-Balart. “Despite the work of this committee to strengthen FEMA, it is still buried within a huge department and confusion still exists with its authority. This bill is a solution.” “Drive Safer Sunday” Resolution and GSA ResolutionsThe Committee also unanimously approved a resolution (H. Res. 841) by U.S. Rep. Jim Gerlach (R-PA) supporting the designation of November 29, 2009, as “Drive Safer Sunday.” The resolution acknowledges that distracted driving is one of the main causes of highway accident fatalities, and promotes driver awareness and safety on the Sunday after Thanksgiving, the heaviest travel day of the year when 13.7 million Americans make long-distance trips. “Raising awareness about the dangers of distracted driving can literally save lives,” said Gerlach. “This resolution is a reminder of the personal responsibility each driver accepts every time they put their key in the ignition. We can all do little things to make the roads safer and be more considerate of other motorists.” Finally, the Committee approved resolutions to authorize various construction and lease projects under the General Services Administration’s Capital Investment and Leasing Program.
11.04.2009	For Immediate Release:MIAMI—Today the South Florida Congressional Delegation announced that Kristi House was awarded a $500,000 grant from the Department of Justice. The Members played a role in securing the funds, which are part of the Improving Community Response to the Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children Grant Program. Kristi House provides a healing environment for all child victims of sexual abuse and their families, regardless of income, through prevention, treatment and coordination of services with community partners.Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart: “Kristi House plays an integral role in treating those most vulnerable in our community, abused children. The organization is also key in creating awareness of the issue and promoting prevention. This grant will help Kristi House further accomplish its mission, and I am committed to supporting the important work that they do.”Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen: “I am pleased that this wonderful organization has been awarded a federal grant so they can continue doing what they do so well: help children, who have been the victim of commercial sexual exploitation, heal and regain their dignity and lives. Miami’s position in the top 5 metropolitan centers where sexual exploitation of children occurs is not only a stain on our city, it is also a significant and deplorable problem that must be addressed by all sectors of our society. Exploiting children for sex is barbaric and has no place whatsoever in modern society. Kristi House possesses extensive experience in Miami-Dade County addressing the specific needs of commercially sexually exploited children for over 13 years. They have done yeoman’s work in this field and this grant shall be immediately put to good use.”Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz: “When the fight to end the sexual abuse of children fails, Kristi House picks up the pieces. As a mother of three young children, I am so proud to have helped secure funding for young children and their families as they heal from these heinous actions. As leaders in our community, we must work together to implement programs ensuring that violent sexual predators cannot get access to our children.”Congressman Kendrick B. Meek: “Kristi House is a vital resource for the South Florida community in addressing the needs of sexually exploited children. The Center provides a safe haven for these minors and is a fierce defender of their well-being. I will continue to fight for federal funding that puts the safety of our community’s children first.”Congressman Lincoln Diaz-Balart: “The exploitation of children is an inexcusable crime and we must seek the means to give the victims a chance at a normal life and human dignity. The federal funds granted to Kristi House will ensure that more children in our community have access to the treatments and protection that this organization has provided Miami-Dade’s youth for the past thirteen years. I am pleased to have advocated on behalf of the grant, which will provide this great organization the opportunity to expand their operations and enable them to reach more children in need.”Congressman Alcee L. Hastings: "Kristi House has proven itself a steadfast defender of children and a source of hope for those taken in to its care. With the award of this grant, Kristi House receives the means to extend its invaluable efforts to aid and shelter at-risk youth. I fully believe in the mission and commend the award to this worthy organization."
11.03.2009	For Immediate Release:WASHINGTON, DC—Today the office of Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) delivered the Pelosi Healthcare Bill to the Golden Gate, West Kendall Regional and Miami Lakes Public Libraries in District 25 for residents to read and review. A copy of the bill is also available at Diaz-Balart’s District offices in Miami-Dade and Collier Counties. “Despite promises of an open and transparent Congress, Speaker Pelosi excluded the Minority party from giving input and including provisions in her Healthcare bill,” said Diaz-Balart. “It is important that the American people have the opportunity to read and review the legislation and express their thoughts before Congress decides the future of Healthcare in our country. I encourage my constituents to provide me with their feedback on this bill, and if debate is permitted on the House floor, I will voice their opinions and concerns.”The details and policies outlined in the nearly 2,000-page bill were agreed to behind closed doors by a select group of Democrats in Washington, DC, but in an effort to keep government transparent and accessible to the American people Diaz-Balart has provided copies of the legislation to the following Public Libraries for constituents of District 25 to read and review:Golden Gate Library 2432 Lucerne RoadNaples, FL 34116West Kendall Regional Library10201 Hammocks BoulevardMiami, FL 33196Miami Lakes Public Library6699 Windmill Gate RdMiami Lakes, FL 33014
10.30.2009	For Immediate Release:Miami, FL - Congressmen Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) issued the following joint statement today concerning the agreement reached in Honduras last night:“This agreement is an extraordinary example of political maturity and of profound respect for the sovereignty of the Honduran people. Even though, in a shameful and unwarranted manner, the international community attempted to undermine the democratic institutions and constitution of Honduras, this agreement paves the way for the world to recognize the upcoming Presidential elections, remove all sanctions against Honduras and not interfere with that noble country’s people’s right to decide their own fate. We commend President Micheletti, his government and all the democratic institutions of Honduras for standing firm on behalf of freedom and the Rule of Law”.
10.29.2009	For Immediate Release:WASHINGTON, DC-Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.Res.783, a resolution commemorating Hispanic Heritage Month, which was introduced by Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Conference. Hispanic Heritage Month, began on September 15th, the anniversary of independence for five Latin American countries—Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua—and concluded on October 15th. Hispanic Heritage Month recognizes the contributions of Hispanic Americans to the United States and celebrates Hispanic heritage and culture. The Census Bureau now lists Hispanic Americans as the largest minority group in the U.S. with a population of 46 million, making up 15 percent of the nation’s total population.The resolution had bi-partisan support, with 72 cosponsors, and passed by a vote of 423-0. To view Diaz-Balart’s floor remarks on the resolution, please visit: https://www.youtube.com/mariodiazbalart
10.23.2009	For Immediate Release:MIAMI—Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) announced that starting next month, his office will host community office hours in Florida City. A member of the Congressman’s staff will be on site at the Florida City Hall the second Thursday of every month to assist constituents with questions pertaining to the federal government including citizenship, housing, social security, IRS, and veteran affairs. For more information please contact Diaz-Balart’s District office at (305)-225-6866. WHAT: Ongoing Community Office Hours in Florida CityWHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart and staffWHEN: Second Thursday of every month from 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.WHERE: Florida City Hall, 404 W Palm Drive Florida City, Florida 33034
10.22.2009	For Immediate Release:TUNE IN TONIGHTCongressman Mario Diaz-Balart leading a special order hour on the floor of the House of Representatives on HondurasTUNE IN and watch Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart and other Members of Congress as they speak regarding upcoming elections in HondurasAs of 9:30 p.m. eastern standard time on C-SPAN
10.15.2009	For Immediate Release:WASHINGTON, DC – Bringing to a close Hispanic Heritage month, U.S. Congressmen Mario Diaz-Balart hosted Pastor Guillermo Maldonado of Rey Jesus International Ministry in Miami, recognized as the largest Hispanic church in the country, as guest chaplain in the U.S. House of Representatives. Diaz-Balart welcomed Pastor Maldonado, his wife Ana Maldonado, and members of the church, to the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday for the Morning Prayer. Diaz-Balart’s floor remarks: “Madam Speaker, Pastor Guillermo Maldonado is the founder of Rey Jesus International Ministry in Miami, Florida. It is recognized as the largest Hispanic church in the entire country.He, along with his wife, Ana Maldonado, who is joining us today in the gallery, are spiritual leaders for so many in our community. His dedication and commitment to serving God and to serving his fellow man is, frankly, unparalleled.It's a great honor, a huge honor to have Pastor Maldonado as our guest chaplain in the House today, for he is truly an inspiring figure. I am so glad that this House is able to benefit from the spiritual guidance that so many of us in south Florida have been able to do over the years.”To view Pastor Maldonado’s invocation and Diaz-Balart’s remarks on the House floor, please visit: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iMUbqX4bFtU.
10.15.2009	For Immediate Release:MIAMI—Tomorrow Miami-Dade County will co-host the North Miami-Dade Career Resources Expo at Florida National College in Hialeah in conjunction with Congressmen Mario Diaz-Balart and Lincoln Diaz-Balart’s offices, Mayors Carlos Alvarez and Julio Robaina, and other community organizations.The event is open to the public. Organizations, businesses and companies on site include: Florida International University, Miami-Dade College, South Florida Workforce, State Farm, Hialeah Chamber and United Health Care. Members of Diaz-Balart’s staff will be also be present to answer questions, provide guidance and assist constituents on any federal matters.WHAT: North Miami-Dade Career Resources ExpoWHO: Office of Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart, Office of Congressman Lincoln Diaz-Balart, Office of Mayor Carlos Alvarez, Office of Mayor Julio Robaina and community organizations, businesses and companiesWHEN: TOMORROW, Friday, October 16th, 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.WHERE: Florida National College, 4425 West 20th Street, Hialeah, FL 33012
10.12.2009	For Immediate Release:-PRESS AVAILABILITY IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING TOUR-MIAMI-Tomorrow, Congressmen Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Robert Wexler (FL-19), and Ron Klein (FL-22) and State Senator Ted Deutch will be joined by Secretary for Housing and Urban Development, Shaun Donovan, for a tour of a Boynton Beach home afflicted by contaminated Chinese drywall.Reps. Wexler and Diaz-Balart, the co-chairs of the Congressional Caucus on Contaminated Drywall, will emphasize to Secretary Donovan the devastating impact contaminated Chinese drywall has had on the lives of the Roberts family, who own a home in the community of Cobblestone Creek. Dr. Steve Roberts and his wife Jennifer Roberts have struggled with their 16 month-old daughter’s frequent respiratory infections, and the fact that their home has lost hundreds of thousands of dollars in value as a result of this toxic product.WHO: Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Shaun Donovan Congressman Robert Wexler Congressman Mario-Diaz Balart Congressman Ron Klein State Senator Ted DeutchWHAT: Press Availability Following Tour of HomeWHERE: Home of Dr. Steve Roberts and Jennifer Roberts 10013 Cobblestone Creek Drive, Boynton Beach, FLWHEN: Tuesday, October 13, 10:30 to11:30 am
10.05.2009	For Immediate Release:Miami, FL – Today U.S. Congressmen Mario Diaz-Balart and Lincoln Diaz-Balart are taking part in a visit to Honduras to meet with Presidential candidates, members of the Honduran Supreme Court, representatives of the electoral commission and high-ranking government officials in order to support the Honduran people in their struggle to preserve their Constitution and democracy. Upon return to Miami on Tuesday, they will host a media availability to discuss details of their visit. WHO: Congressmen Mario Diaz-Balart and Lincoln Diaz-BalartWHAT: Press availability upon return to Miami, FL from HondurasWHEN: Tuesday, October 6th at 2:30 p.m. WHERE: Miami International Airport, Consular Lounge in Concourse F [the Consular Lounge is located on the right hand side, beforereaching the Concourse F checkpoint]MEDIA CONTACTS: Adriana Pereira (MDB) 202-285-3073 or Yanik Fenton (LDB) 305-905-3714
10.02.2009	Mostrarán su apoyo al pueblo hondureño en su lucha por preservar su Constitución y democracia Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-style-parent:""; font-size:11.0pt;"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-fareast-"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-"Times New Roman";} Miami, FL – Los CongresistasLincoln Diaz-Balart (R-FL) y Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) viajarán a Honduras en American Airlines el lunes, 5 de octubre de 2009 a las 10:30 a.m. regresando a Miami en Aerolíneas TACA el martes, 6 de octubre de 2009 a la 1:30 p.m. Durante su visita, los Congresistas se reunirán con los candidatos Presidenciales, con miembros de la Corte Suprema hondureña, con representantes de la Junta Electoral, y altos oficiales gubernamentales para mostrar su apoyo al pueblo hondureño en su lucha por preservar su Constitución y democracia.“Es extremadamente importante que mostremos nuestro apoyo al pueblo hondureño en su lucha por preservar su Constitución y democracia. Es inconcebible que la Administración Obama continúa rehusando reconocer el derecho a la auto-determinación del pueblo hondureño que será expresado en las próximas elecciones presidenciales de noviembre”, declararon los Diaz-Balart.
10.02.2009	They seek to support the Honduran people in their struggle to preserve their Constitution and democracy.Miami, FL - Congressmen Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will depart to Honduras on American Airlines on Monday, October 5, 2009, at 10:30 a.m., returning to Miami on TACA International Airlines on Tuesday, October 6, 2009 at 1:30 p.m. Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-style-parent:""; font-size:11.0pt;"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-fareast-"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-"Times New Roman";} During their visit, the Congressmen will meet with the Presidential candidates, members of the Honduran Supreme Court, representatives of the electoral commission and high-ranking government officials in order to support the Honduran people in their struggle to preserve their Constitution and democracy. “It is extremely important that we show our support for the Honduran people as they struggle to preserve their Constitution and democracy. It is inconceivable that the Obama Administration continues refusing to recognize the right to self-determination of the Honduran people as will be expressed in the upcoming Presidential elections in November,” said the Diaz-Balarts.
10.02.2009	For Immediate Release WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) made the following statement regarding the release of the country’s latest unemployment numbers: “Americans are still losing their jobs at a record pace, and rather than focusing on creating real solutions and putting America back to work, the President and his leadership in Congress continue to bring forth proposals that kill job creation. From passing a tax raising budget, to cap and trade, to a failed stimulus, to tripling the national debt and bringing forth fiscally reckless healthcare proposals, Democratic leadership and the Administration continue to wreak havoc on American families and small businesses. “Vice President Biden recently said in his wildest dreams, he never thought the stimulus would work this well. The so-called stimulus promised to cap unemployment at 8% and immediately create 3.5 million jobs, but has proven to be a dismal failure. Biden’s wildest dreams cannot masquerade the real life nightmare that millions of Americans are living as they continue losing their jobs. “It is time to get serious about improving our nation’s economy and stop the borrowing and spending spree that has gotten us to this point,” said Diaz-Balart. Today the U.S. Department of Labor announced that unemployment has reached 9.8%, a record 26-year high. In Florida, the unemployment rate is well past the national average, at 10.7%, a 70% increase in the last year.
09.30.2009	For Immediate Release:WASHINGTON, DC-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), the Ranking Republican of the Transportation and Infrastructure’s Subcommittee on Economic Development, Public Buildings and Emergency Management, participated in a hearing on the nation’s emergency alert and warning system, which dates back to the 1960’s. “The ability to warn the public of an emergency is a life or death matter,” said Diaz-Balart. “Undoubtedly, our current system is not sufficiently adequate, comprehensive or efficient and needs to be brought up to speed with present day technologies.”“It is important that we ensure that our communities are properly prepared for a major disaster or national emergency. I demand that FEMA prioritize this matter and work with states and localities, as well as private partners, in identifying what works and implementing the necessary changes,” said Diaz-Balart.“I thank Chairwoman Norton for working with me on this important issue that affects all Americans and also thank Chairman Oberstar and Ranking Member Mica for their support of the IPAWS legislation,” said Diaz-Balart.Collier County Commissioner Jim Coletta from Diaz-Balart’s Congressional district was called to testify as a witness before the subcommittee. “Commissioner Coletta always puts the needs of our community first. His leadership, service and commitment to Collier County are invaluable. I thank him for his willingness to join Congress as we explore how to best improve our nation’s public alert and warning system, and I look forward to continuing to work with him to advance the needs of Southwest Florida,” said Diaz-Balart. Earlier this year, Diaz-Balart introduced H.R. 2591, The Integrated Public Alert and Warning System Act, which requires FEMA to modernize and implement an integrated public alerts and warning system. The hearing coincided with the release of a report by the U.S. Government Accountability Office critical of federal efforts to update the emergency alert system. To access the report visit: https://www.gao.gov/new.items/d09834.pdf. For more information on today’s hearing titled: “This is NOT a Test: Will the Nation’s Emergency Alert System Deliver the President’s Message to the Public?” please visit: https://republicans.transportation.house.gov
09.29.2009	For Immediate ReleaseWashington, D.C. – A Congressional hearing on Wednesday will examine whether the nation’s aging public alert and warning system, which dates back to the 1960’s, is capable of notifying Americans of emergencies in a timely and comprehensive fashion. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is the agency responsible for managing public alert systems at the federal level, and FEMA initiated a modernization effort in 2004. However, five years later, little progress has been made.Wednesday’s hearing was requested by U.S. Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), the top Republican on the Economic Development, Public Buildings and Emergency Management Subcommittee. Earlier this year, Diaz-Balart introduced the bill H.R. 2591, the Integrated Public Alert and Warning System Modernization Act of 2009.In conjunction with tomorrow’s hearing, the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) will release a report on the status of the alert system and the challenges in upgrading it. The Subcommittee will receive testimony from GAO, FEMA, state and local officials, a public broadcast station, and representatives of individuals that are more difficult to reach by the existing alert system, such as those with impaired hearing.The hearing of the Economic Development, Public Buildings and Emergency Management Subcommittee is scheduled for 2:00 PM (EST), Wednesday, September 30, 2009, at 2167 Rayburn House Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20515.
09.29.2009	For Immediate Release:WASHINGTON, DC-Tomorrow Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), the Ranking Republican of the Transportation and Infrastructure’s Subcommittee on Economic Development, Public Buildings and Emergency Management, will co-chair a hearing on the nation’s emergency alert and warning system. Collier County Commissioner Jim Coletta has been called as a witness and will be testifying before Congress. “Commissioner Coletta exemplifies the true meaning of public service, always putting the needs of his community first. His leadership, service and commitment to Collier County are invaluable. I thank him for his willingness to join Congress as we explore how to best improve our nation’s public alert and warning system, and I look forward to continuing to work with him to advance the needs of Southwest Florida,” said Diaz-Balart. The nation’s public alert and warning system dates back to the 1960’s and its ability to notify Americans of emergencies in a timely and comprehensive fashion it questionable. Earlier this year, Diaz-Balart introduced H.R. 2591, The Integrated Public Alert and Warning System Act, which requires FEMA to modernize and implement an integrated public alerts and warning system. The hearing, titled: “This is NOT a Test: Will the Nation’s Emergency Alert System Deliver the President’s Message to the Public?” is scheduled for 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday, September 30th in 2167 Rayburn House Office Building in Washington, DC. It will be webcasted live at: https://republicans.transportation.house.gov/
09.29.2009	Para circulación inmediata:MIAMI—Esta semana, el Congresista Mario Diaz-Balart (Republicano de Florida) participo en la gala anual de la Coalición Peruana Americana, conmemorando el XV aniversario de este grupo. También reconoció los logros de la comunidad Peruana Americana en Sur de Florida y a sus líderes, como Sergio Massa, el Presidente de la Coalición, a quien le presento una bandera Americana por su servicio a la comunidad hispana. Diaz-Balart es el presidente del Congressional Hispanic Conference (Conferencia Hispana del Congreso) y forma parte de la junta directiva del Congressional Hispanic Leadership Institute conocido como CHLI (Instituto de Liderazgo Hispano del Congreso). Representa la mayoría de los colombianos y colombiano-americanos en los Estados Unidos, y continúa siendo el líder en el Congreso en temas importante a la comunidad, como la reforma migratoria, el DREAM Act, el libre comercio con Latino America, y fondos para PLAN Colombia.
09.29.2009	For Immediate Release:MIAMI—This week, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) participated in the Peruvian American Coalition XV Anniversary Gala Banquet in Miami. The event brought together members of the Peruvian American community in South Florida and honored leaders who have made a difference in advancing the needs of their community. Diaz-Balart presented a flag to Sergio Massa, President and CEO of the Peruvian American Coalition, for his leadership in the Hispanic community and his contributions and service in South Florida. Diaz-Balart is the Chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Conference and a Founding Member and Board of Director of the Congressional Hispanic Leadership Institute (CHLI). He represents the largest group of Colombian and Colombian-Americans in the entire United States and has lead efforts in Congress on Hispanic related issues like immigration, the DREAM Act, free trade with Latin America and funding for Plan Colombia.
09.29.2009	For Immediate Release:WASHINGTON, DC-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Conference, introduced a resolution commemorating Hispanic Heritage Month, which began on September 15th, the anniversary of independence for five Latin American countries—Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua—and concludes on October 15th.“Hispanic Heritage Month is a time to celebrate our culture and our heritage and remember how far we have come and the endless possibilities ahead. “It is also a time to stand in solidarity with the people in the region as they fight to keep democracy alive in our hemisphere.“Hispanics have made invaluable contributions in the U.S. and continue to do so every day. I urge the Latino community in the U.S. to remain active and engaged so that our voice continues to be heard.Bi-partisan cosponsors include: Reps. Serrano (NY-16), Baca (CA-23), Ros-Lehtinen (FL-18), Meeks (NY-6), Pierluisi (Puerto Rico-at large), Nunes (CA-21), L. Diaz-Balart (FL-21), Pence (IN-6), Gene Green (TX-29), Roskam (IL-6), Filner (CA-51), Dent (PA-15), McCotter (MI-11), D. Burton (IN-5), Hirono (HI-2), Hank Johnson (GA-4), Grijalva (AZ-7) and Larson (CT-1).Hispanic Heritage Month recognizes the contributions of Hispanic Americans to the United States and celebrates Hispanic heritage and culture. The Census Bureau now lists Hispanic Americans as the largest minority group in the U.S. with a population of 46 million, making up 15 percent of the nation’s total population.See below text of the resolution:RESOLUTIONRecognizing Hispanic Heritage Month and celebrating the vast contributions of Hispanic Americans to the strength and culture of the United States.Whereas from September 15, 2009, through October 15, 2009, the United States celebrates Hispanic Heritage Month;Whereas the presence of Hispanics in North America predates the founding of the United States, and, as among the first to settle in the New World, Hispanics and their descendants have had a profound and lasting influence on the history, values, and culture of the United States;Whereas since the arrival of the earliest Spanish settlers more than 400 years ago, millions of Hispanic men and women have come to the United States from Mexico, Cuba, and other Caribbean regions, Central America,South America, and Spain, in search of freedom, peace, and opportunity;Whereas Hispanic Americans have contributed throughout the ages to the prosperity and culture of the United States;Whereas the Bureau of the Census now lists Hispanic Americans as the largest ethnic minority within the United States with a population of 46,900,000, comprising 15 percent of the Nation’s total population;Whereas according to the Bureau of the Census, 16 States have at least a half-million Hispanic residents, including Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Massachusetts, Nevada, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Texas, Virginia, andWashington;Whereas according to the Bureau of the Census, Hispanics are the largest minority group in 20 states, including Arizona, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Florida, Idaho, Iowa, Kansas, Massachusetts, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, Oregon, Rhode Island, Texas, Utah, Washington, and Wyoming;Whereas according to the Bureau of the Census, there are 1,600,000 Hispanic-owned businesses operating in areas including construction, administrative and support, waste management and remediation services, and retail and wholesale trade that generated $222,000,000,000 in revenuein 2002, up 19 percent from 1997;Whereas according to the Bureau of the Census, the rate of growth of Hispanic-owned businesses between 1997 and 2002 tripled to 31 percent compared with the national average of 10 percent for all businesses;Whereas Hispanic Americans serve in all branches of the United States Armed Forces and have fought valiantly in every war in the history of the United States;Whereas according to the Bureau of the Census, there are 1,100,000 Hispanic veterans of the United States Armed Forces;Whereas the Medal of Honor is the highest United States military distinction, awarded since the Civil War for ‘‘conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity at the risk of life above and beyond the call of duty’’;Whereas 43 men of Hispanic origin have earned this distinction;Whereas many Hispanic Americans are dedicated public servants, holding posts at the highest levels of government, including Cabinet Secretaries, Members of the House of Representatives, the Senate, and the Supreme Court; andWhereas Hispanic Americans have a deep commitment to faith, family, and community, an enduring work ethic, and a perseverance to succeed: Now, therefore, be itResolved, That the House of Representatives—(1) recognizes Hispanic Heritage Month; (2) celebrates the vast contributions of Hispanic Americans to the strength and culture of the United States; and (3) encourages the people of the United States to observe Hispanic Heritage Month with appropriate programs and activities.
09.24.2009	For Immediate Release:WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will host the third annual Service Academy Day at the Homestead Air Reserve Base on Saturday, September 26th at 8:30 a.m. On this day, representatives from the U.S. Naval, U.S. Air Force, U.S. Military, U.S. Merchant Marine and U.S. Coast Guard Academies will be on site to meet with and inform perspective students about educational and career opportunities at the service academies. High school students in District 25 interested in applying to a service academy or eager to learn more about serving in the U.S. Military are encouraged to attend. Parents and family members are welcomed to attend.Currently, 11 students nominated by Diaz-Balart are completing work in West Point, the Naval Academy or the Air Force Academy. Four others have graduated and are now serving in the U.S. Military. *Media must RSVP with Adriana Pereira by close of business on Friday, September 25th for entry access into the base.WHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart and representatives from the U.S. Navy, U.S. Air Force, U.S. Military, U.S. Merchant Marines and U.S. Coast GuardWHAT: 3rd Annual Service Academy DayWHEN: Saturday, September 26, 2009 at 8:30 a.m.WHERE: Homestead Air Reserve Base, 29050 Coral Sea Blvd Homestead, Florida 33039RSVP: By close of business on Friday, September 25th with Adriana Pereira, 202-285-3073 or Adriana.Pereira@mail.house.gov
09.18.2009	For Immediate Release:WASHINGTON, DC-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), the Chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Conference, issued the following statement recognizing Hispanic Heritage Month:“Hispanic Heritage Month is a time to celebrate our culture and our heritage and remember how far we have come and the endless possibilities ahead. “It is also a time to stand in solidarity with the people of our nations as they fight to keep democracy alive in our hemisphere.“Hispanics have made invaluable contributions in the U.S. and continue to do so every day. I urge the Latino community in the U.S. to remain active and engaged so that our voice is heard.“Juntos celebremos este mes de la Hispanidad,” said Diaz-Balart.Beginning September 15th, and through October 15th, the U.S. celebrates Hispanic Heritage Month. Hispanics are the fastest-growing and largest minority in the country, making up 15% of the U.S. population.
09.18.2009	For Immediate Release:MIAMI— Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) visited the Somerville Residence of Camillus House in Downtown Miami. He met with the Board of Directors and was recognized for his efforts in securing federal funding for Camillus House and Camillus Health Concern. “For nearly 50 years, Camillus House has been a true leader in our community providing care to the poor and homeless of South Florida,” said Diaz-Balart. “I thank the staff and board members of Camillus House for the work they do; it is instrumental and beneficial to those in our community who need it the most.”In 2008, Diaz-Balart secured over $250,000 in federal funds for an expansion to the already existing Brother Keily Place in Naranja, the Camillus House South Dade Facility in District 25.
09.15.2009	For Immediate Release:WASHINGTON, DC—Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) announced that he will host the third annual Service Academy Day at the Homestead Air Reserve Base on Saturday, September 26th at 8:30 a.m. “It is an honor to once again host our fine men and women in uniform and the future leaders of our U.S. Military,” said Diaz-Balart. “Academy Day is a great opportunity for high school students in our community that may be interested in serving our country, to learn more about what our talented Armed Forces do each day. I encourage students and their families to join us at Homestead Air Reserve Base and learn about the opportunities our service academies have to offer,” said Diaz-Balart. On this day, representatives from the U.S. Naval, U.S. Air Force, U.S. Military, U.S. Merchant Marine and U.S. Coast Guard Academies will be on site to meet with and inform perspective students about educational and career opportunities at the service academies. High school students from District 25 interested in applying to a service academy or eager to learn more about serving in the U.S. Military are encouraged to attend. Parents and family members are welcomed to attend.Currently, 11 students nominated by Diaz-Balart are completing work in West Point, the Naval Academy or the Air Force Academy. Four others have graduated and are now serving in the U.S. Military. *All participants (students and parents) must RSVP by Monday, September 21st with Gloria Amor at (305) 225-6866.WHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart and representatives from the U.S. Navy, U.S. Air Force, U.S. Military, U.S. Merchant Marines and U.S. Coast GuardWHAT: 3rd Annual Service Academy DayWHEN: Saturday, September 26, 2009 at 8:30 a.m.WHERE: Homestead Air Reserve Base, 29050 Coral Sea Blvd Homestead, Florida 33039RSVP: by Monday, September 21st with Gloria Amor at (305) 225-6866
09.11.2009	For Immediate Release:WASHINGTON, DC— Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) issued the following statement on the 8th anniversary of the September 11th attacks. “As Americans go about their daily lives, it is important that we take a moment to remember the heroes who so valiantly and courageously perished on September 11, 2001. We must also continue standing together as one nation to defend our freedom and democracy, and work towards a better America.“Let us never forget those who perished on 9/11 and those who answered the call of duty in the aftermath of tragedy and who continue to defend our freedoms each day. Our men and women in uniform are the reason why America continues to be free,” said Diaz-Balart.
09.11.2009	For Immediate Release:MIAMI— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) participated in a Chinese Drywall Informational Workshop yesterday hosted by the City of Doral. The event took place at Doral Middle School and was hosted for concerned property owners, tenants and residents of the City, to provide them with information and assistance on the issue. “I thank the City of Doral for their leadership and efforts in coordinating this important forum, which provided assistance for hundreds of residents in District 25.“This is an important issue that affects not only the residents of Southern Florida but also thousands of homeowners nationwide. Contaminated Chinese drywall presents a serious health hazard of great concern and is resulting in homeowners walking away from their homes. “My priority is to keep our families safe and ensure that they can live in a sound and stable environment. It is critical that we work together to address this problem swiftly to avoid devastating results in our communities and long-term effects on the health and wellbeing of our families,” said Diaz-Balart. Diaz-Balart has taken the lead in Congress alongside Rep. Robert Wexler of Broward, calling for federal funding to conduct investigations of contaminated Chinese drywall and established the Contaminated Chinese Drywall Caucus, introduced legislation, and passed amendments on the issue. According to City of Doral officials, as of this month, 65 properties in the City of Doral are suspected to have been affected by contaminated Chinese drywall. The City continues to work with the Florida Department of Health to investigate further cases. For more information on Diaz-Balart’s efforts on contaminated Chinese drywall, please visit: https://mariodiazbalart.house.gov
09.09.2009	VEA HOYEl Congresista Mario Diaz-Balart hablará sobre la reforma de salud en los siguientes programas:CNN en Español EN VIVO a las 6:30 p.m.Telemundo Noticiero Nacional a las 6:30 p.m.“Ultima Hora” en Univision EN VIVO a las 11:30 p.m.
09.09.2009	TUNE IN and watch Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart as he speaks on healthcare reform:CNN en Español LIVE at 6:30 p.m.Telemundo National News at 6:30 p.m.“Ultima Hora” on Univision LIVE at 11:30 p.m.
08.31.2009	For Immediate Release:MIAMI—Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will take part in a check presentation at Kendall-Tamiami Executive Airport to present Miami-Dade County with $4.2 million in federal funding for a runway extension. The funds are part of the Federal Aviation Administration’s Airport Improvement Program. WHAT: Check Presentation for Kendall-Tamiami Airport Runway ExtensionWHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart, Miami-Dade County Mayor Carlos Alvarez, Miami-Dade County Commissioner Joe Martinez, and other county officialsWHEN: Monday, August 31, 2009 at 10:00 a.m.WHERE: Falcon Air Trust, 14150 SW 129 Street, Building 238, at Kendall-Tamiami Executive Airport
08.27.2009	Para circulación inmediata:MIAMI—Hoy el Congresista Mario Diaz-Balart (Republicano de Florida) se reunió con líderes de la comunidad Hispana del Sur de Florida para platicar sobre temas que afectan a esa comunidad y la situación política en America Latina. El grupo también se dedicó a compartir ideas sobre la reforma migratoria, el cuidado de salud, la economía y los pequeños negocios, entre otros. “En el Sur de Florida, los líderes Hispanos están dedicados a mejorar la economía y crear oportunidades de empleos a través del desarrollo empresarial. Es importante que le brindemos el máximo apoyo a estos individuos y a las pequeñas empresas que juegan un papel esencial. Son los verdaderos creadores de empleos en nuestra comunidad. Ellos están comprometidos a restaurar la economía y a la misma vez a preservar la libre empresa y la democracia en nuestro hemisferio.”“La mejor forma de lograr nuestras metas como Hispanos y avanzar las necesidades de nuestra comunidad es a través de la colaboración,” dijo Fabio Andrade, Presidente del Americas Community Center. “Le agradezco al Congresista su esfuerzo en reunirnos hoy y su interés y dedicación a la causa de la libertad en America Latina y el mundo entero.” Diaz-Balart representa la mayoría de los colombianos y colombiano-americanos en los Estados Unidos, y continúa siendo el líder en el Congreso en temas importante a la comunidad, como la reforma migratoria, el DREAM Act, el libre comercio con Latino America, y fondos para PLAN Colombia. Es el presidente del Congressional Hispanic Conference (Conferencia Hispana del Congreso) y forma parte de la junta directiva del Congressional Hispanic Leadership Institute conocido como CHLI (Instituto de Liderazgo Hispano del Congreso).
08.27.2009	For Immediate Release:MIAMI— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) today hosted a roundtable with leaders of the Hispanic Community in South Florida to discuss local issues affecting the community in the U.S. and current political developments in Latin America. The group also discussed issues such as immigration reform, healthcare, the economy and small business, among others. “In South Florida, Hispanic leaders are working hard to revitalize our economy and create job opportunities through entrepreneurship. It is important that we continue supporting these individuals and small businesses that play a key role, are the real job creators in our community and are committed to restoring our economy while at the same time preserving free enterprise and democracy in our hemisphere.” “The only way in which we can accomplish goals and make strides for in community is by coming together and working as one,” said Fabio Andrade, President of the Americas Community Center. “I thank the Congressman for hosting this successful meeting and for his commitment to the cause of freedom in Latin America and around the world.”Diaz-Balart represents the largest group of Colombian and Colombian-Americans in the entire United States and has lead efforts in Congress on issues like immigration, the DREAM Act, free trade with Latin American and funding for Plan Colombia. He is the Chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Conference and a Founding Member and Board of Director of the Congressional Hispanic Leadership Institute (CHLI).
08.26.2009	Para circulación inmediata:MIAMI – Al conocer la noticia del fallecimiento del Senador Edward Kennedy (D-Mass.), los Congresistas Lincoln Díaz-Balart (R-FL) y Mario Díaz-Balart (R-FL) hicieron pública la siguiente declaración conjunta hoy:“Nuestros pensamientos y oraciones están con la familia del Senador Edward Kennedy en estos momentos difíciles. En especial, enviamos nuestro más sentido pésame a nuestro amigo y colega, el Congresista Patrick Kennedy de Rhode Island. Siempre recordaremos que el Senador Kennedy dedicó su vida al servicio de sus electores (que lo re-eligieron al Senado de Estados Unidos durante casi 5 décadas) y a la nación”.
08.26.2009	For Immediate Release:MIAMI – Upon learning the news of the passing of U.S. Senator Edward Kennedy (D-Mass.), U.S. Congressmen Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) issued the following joint statement today:“Our thoughts and prayers go out to Senator Edward Kennedy’s family at this difficult time. We especially send our heartfelt condolences to our friend and colleague, Congressman Patrick Kennedy of Rhode Island. We will always remember that Senator Kennedy dedicated his life to serving his constituents (who consistently reelected him to the United States Senate for almost 5 decades) and the nation.”
08.25.2009	For Immediate Release:MIAMI— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) hosted a roundtable with leaders of the Southern Florida Haitian Community today to discuss U.S. relations with Haiti, Temporary Protected Status for Haitian nationals in the U.S. and aid for the Haitian people. Other topics included healthcare, the economy and immigration. Representatives from the Haitian Lawyer’s Association, World Vision, the Haitian American Youth of Tomorrow, The Haiti Project and Galata were present, among others. “It was wonderful for Mario to bring together members of this community,” said Lois Jones, an activist in the South Florida community. “He understands how important these issues are and we are grateful that he is taking the time to work with us and get us the help and support we need from Washington.”“This was a productive discussion regarding issues of importance to South Florida and the United States, as well as Haiti,” said Diaz-Balart.“I will continue working with my colleagues in Washington and other Members of the South Florida delegation in asking the Administration for their support on addressing these important issues, as well as granting TPS for Haitian nationals” said Diaz-Balart. Diaz-Balart has been a long time supporter of the people of Haiti and has continuously requested that Temporary Protective Status be granted to Haitian national living in the United States, especially in the wake of the destruction caused by the 2008 hurricane season. In June, he took park in a CODEL to Haiti with Congressmen Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Kendrick B. Meek and Lincoln Diaz-Balart. The trip marked the first time all five Members of the South Florida Congressional Delegation travel on a jointly on a CODEL.
08.19.2009	For Immediate Release:COLLIER- Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart made the following statement regarding Vietnam and Korean War veteran John W. Kirchner of Golden Gate:“John Kirchner put his life on the line to protect our freedoms and our democracy. This week, in front of family, friends and the community, he will be recognized for his valor, selflessness, and service to our nation in the Vietnam and Korean Wars. It is an honor for me to take part in this celebration and to personally thank John for his courage and dedication,” said Diaz-Balart. In a ceremony hosted by the Veterans of Foreign Wars Center of Collier, John W. Kirchner, a resident of Golden Gate and veteran of the U.S. Navy, will receive six medals from the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs for his service, among them: the Humanitarian Service Medal, the Korean Defense Service Medal and the Bronze Star. He recently invited Congressman Diaz-Balart to take part in the event and present him with the medals.The event is open to the press and will take place this Saturday, August 22 at 5:00 p.m. at the Veterans of Foreign Wars Post 7721 in Pine Ridge, 800 Neffs Way, Naples, FL 34119.
08.06.2009	Para distribución inmediataMIAMI-El Congresista Diaz-Balart hizo hoy la siguiente declaración acerca de la confirmación de la Jueza Sonia Sotomayor para la Corte Suprema de Justicia:“El desempeño profesional de la Jueza Sonia Sotomayor es encomiable y su nominación a la Corte Suprema de Justicia es histórica. La Jueza Sotomayor, de origen humilde, se ha convertido en un símbolo del sueño Americano gracias a su dedicación, abnegado trabajo y deseos de éxito. “Ella merece una audiencia de confirmación justa y completa y me alegra ver que se le concedió esta oportunidad. Desafortunadamente hace unos pocos años, en una actitud completamente diferente, los líderes demócratas obstruyeron el proceso de confirmación de Miguel Estrada, un abogado altamente calificado que fue nominado para la Corte Federal de Apelaciones en Washington, DC, en el año 2003.“Cuando la Jueza Sotomayor comience su mandato en la Corte Suprema de Justicia, estoy seguro de que ella interpretará la Constitución y las leyes de forma justa e imparcial, como lo indica el texto del juramento de los jueces,” dijo Díaz-Balart.
08.06.2009	For Immediate ReleaseMIAMI-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) made the following statement regarding the confirmation of Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor:“The professional accomplishments of Justice Sonia Sotomayor are commendable and her nomination to the Supreme Court is historic. She came from humble beginnings and through hard work, dedication and a desire to succeed, has come to embody the American dream. “She deserved a full and fair confirmation hearing and I am glad to see that she was granted one. This is a stark contrast to just a few years ago when Democratic leaders obstructed the confirmation process of Miguel Estrada, a highly qualified attorney to the D.C. Circuit of the U.S. Court of Appeals in 2003.“As Justice Sotomayor begins her tenure in the Supreme Court, I trust that she will interpret the law and the Constitution fairly and justly, as stated in the oath that she will take as justice,” said Diaz-Balart.
07.29.2009	For Immediate Release:WASHINGTON, DC-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart made the following statement regarding healthcare reform:“I strongly support healthcare reform and believe that every American deserves access to top quality, affordable healthcare, but we should not penalize our nation’s seniors and jeopardize their healthcare.“As President Obama promises that he will not reduce Medicare benefits, Democrats in Congress rush to enact legislation that would slash the Medicare Advantage program by $156 billion, directly impacting the well being and livelihood of 10.2 million seniors. “Democrat legislation would strip many seniors of their access to healthcare, while adding financial burden on the American taxpayer. “Raising taxes, cutting benefits to our seniors, and spending our nation into debt is not the way to fix the broken healthcare system,” said Diaz-Balart. According to the Florida Association of Health Plans, forcing senior citizens to adopt traditional Medicare would cost the average senior in Southern Florida an additional $3,714 a year.
07.29.2009	For Immediate Release:WASHINGTON, D.C.-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) made the following statement regarding the Highway Trust Fund:“This bill is nothing but a quick fix to a problem that needs a real solution,” said Diaz-Balart. “That solution exists, but unfortunately Speaker Pelosi prevented Chairman Oberstar, Ranking Member Mica and the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee from bringing forth that legislation.”“We need to invest in our deficient transportation infrastructure system which will create thousands of jobs and stimulate our nation’s economic growth. The RECLAIM Act would create jobs without further increasing the deficit or the national debt, and would allow investment in our nation’s roads and bridges,” said Diaz-Balart. In June, Diaz-Balart introduced the Highway Trust Fund RECLAIM Act, which would rescind unused, already appropriated funds from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act and assign them to the Highway Trust Fund, which is expected to become insolvent in just a few weeks.
07.28.2009	For Immediate Relase:MIAMI-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) congratulated the Peruvian Community on its Independence Day. He made the following statement:“I congratulate Peruvians in Southern Florida and across the U.S. as they celebrate 185 years of independence from Colonial rule. It is important to pay tribute to all of those patriots who sought independence for Peru, a nation which now lives in freedom.“I look forward to working with Peruvian leaders to ensure democracy and rule of law in an increasingly unstable region and to strengthen bilateral relations through free trade and economic growth,” said Diaz-Balart.
07.27.2009	Washington, D.C. – The following is the statement of U.S. Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Economic Development, Public Buildings and Emergency Management Ranking Member, from today’s hearing entitled “Post-Katrina: What it Takes to Cut the Bureaucracy and Assure a More Rapid Response After a Catastrophic Disaster.”Watch Rep. Diaz-Balart’s statement on YouTubewww.youtube.com/watch“Although Hurricane Katrina was the most devastating disaster to hit our country, there is a very likely chance of a more catastrophic event occurring in the future. “A clear federal chain of command is essential during a catastrophic disaster, and it can be a critical point of failure as we saw during Katrina. As I recall, the entire reason FEMA had to be in DHS was so it could use FEMA to manage the response to a terrorist attack. Yet for the last three years, DHS has built a parallel incident command structure that bypasses FEMA.“As a result, it is not clear to me – or to some of our witnesses – who will be in charge of coordinating the federal response in a disaster. This confusion is a recipe for failure and the Department needs to follow the law.“We also need to address other critical issues, such as the role of the Department of Defense, the need for large-scale housing plans, and improved mitigation and preparation.“Earlier this year, I introduced the Integrated Public Alert and Warning System Modernization Act along with Chairwoman Norton and Representatives Cao, Guthrie, and Graves of this subcommittee. I also introduced the Safe Building Code Incentive Act.“Providing incentives for states to enact building codes is an effective way to minimize damage and the loss of life in catastrophic disasters. And developing a truly integrated public alert and warning system is critical to saving lives. “It is important for us today to determine if the current framework for emergency management is adequate for catastrophic disasters or if there should be more capability and flexibility built into the system.“After Hurricane Katrina, Congress made it clear we need a FEMA Administrator who knows what he is doing and has the authority to get the job done. I have tremendous confidence in Administrator Fugate and am looking forward to continuing our work together.“I also want to acknowledge the tremendous work Congressman Cao has done to speed up recovery funding to Louisiana. He has held several roundtables with FEMA, state and local officials and Members of Congress and freed up hundreds of millions of dollars.”
07.22.2009	TUNE IN TONIGHTDiaz-Balart on Univision & TelemundoTUNE IN and watch Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart as he speaks on healthcare reform.Telemundo National News at 6:30 p.m.Univision News at 11:00 p.m.“Ultima Hora” on Univision at 11:30 p.m.Diaz-Balart and Rep. Xavier Becerra discuss Healthcare Reform VEA HOYDiaz-Balart por Univision y TelemundoEl Congresista Mario Diaz-Balart hablará sobre la reforma de salud en los siguientes programas:Telemundo Noticiero Nacional a las 6:30 p.m.Noticias Univision a las 11:00 p.m.“Ultima Hora” en Univision a las 11:30 p.m.Diaz-Balart y el Congresista Xavier Becerra hablan sobre la reforma de salud
07.20.2009	For Immediate Release:MIAMI-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) made the following statement on the 199th anniversary of Colombia’s independence from Spain:“I congratulate the people of Colombia and all Colombians around the world as they celebrate nearly two centuries as a sovereign nation. “Colombia remains our strongest ally and friend in the region. President Alvaro Uribe and the democratically elected government of Colombia have led that nation with unprecedented courage and determination and have been successful at improving the lives and safety of the Colombian people. “In the last year alone, President Uribe has made significant progress in improving security while advancing freedom in an increasingly unstable hemisphere. It is imperative that we continue to support him and his initiatives, including a Free Trade Agreement and PLAN Colombia, in order to foster continued growth of democracy in the region,” said Diaz-Balart. Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart represents Florida’s 25th Congressional District, which includes parts of Miami-Dade, Collier and Monroe Counties. Diaz-Balart’s Congressional District includes the largest group of Colombian and Colombian-Americans in the entire United States. He has taken the lead in Congress on issues important to the community such the Free Trade Agreement and funding for PLAN Colombia.
07.17.2009	For Immediate ReleaseWASHINGTON, DC-Today Congressmen Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) and Lincoln Diaz-Balart (FL-21) co-sponsored a resolution supporting Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Haitian Nationals currently living in the U.S. H.Con.Res.144 was introduced by Congressman Alcee L. Hastings of Florida. “The people of Haiti are still coping with the aftermath of the 2008 Hurricane season, which devastated much of the country,” said Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart. “I will continue to support TPS for Haitians because now more than ever it is key to bringing about much-needed stability in that country.” “I visited Haiti last month, and my visit reinforced my belief that TPS for Haiti is well overdue,” said Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart. “Again, I call on the Obama administration to finally grant TPS for Haitians. The Obama administration needs to stop dragging its feet on this important issue.”The Diaz-Balarts have been long time supporters of the people of Haiti and the Haitian community in the U.S. They have continuously requested that TPS be granted to Haitian nationals living in the U.S., especially in the wake of the destruction caused by the 2008 hurricane season. In June, the Diaz-Balarts took part in a bipartisan Congressional Delegation visit to Haiti with Reps. Kendrick B. Meek, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Debbie Wasserman Schultz. It was the first time that all five Members of the South Florida Congressional Delegation traveled jointly on a CODEL.
07.17.2009	For Immediate ReleaseMembers Participate in Reception Honoring Congressional Leaders WASHINGTON, DC-This week the Congressional Friends of Spain Caucus was re-introduced in the House of Representatives with a kick-off reception honoring Congressman Xavier Becerra and Governor of Puerto Rico Luis Fortuño, who served as inaugural co-chairs of the Caucus last Congress. Former staff director of the Caucus, Luis Bacó, and His Excellency Jorge Dezcallar, Ambassador of Spain to the US, were also recognized.“The United States shares hundreds of years of rich history and deep ties through migration, trade, commerce, and culture with the Spanish people. In this time of economic need and uncertainty throughout the world, it is imperative that free and democratic nations work together,” said Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart. “I am pleased to be co-chairing this Caucus with Resident Commissioner Pierluisi, and look forward to working together and strengthening relations between our two nations.”“Following in Fortuño and Becerra’s footsteps, I became Co-chair—along with my friend, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart—of the Caucus in February. Since then, we have worked with the Embassy to develop an exciting and ambitious agenda. Pursuant to this agenda, we will be hosting a series of congressional briefings and other events after the August recess. Through the caucus we will continue to explore the opportunities that arise from our good relations with Spain,” said Resident Commissioner Pedro R. Pierluisi.The Congressional Friends of Spain Caucus is bipartisan and works to further enhance bilateral relations between the U.S. and Spain and to promote political, economic and social exchange between the two nations. Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart of Florida and Resident Commissioner Pedro R. Pierluisi of Puerto Rico serve as co-chairs. For more information about the Congressional Friends of Spain Caucus contact Miguel Mendoza in the office of Diaz-Balart at 202-225-2778 or Laura Maristany in the office of Pierluisi at 202-225-2615.
07.16.2009	Washington, D.C. – The following is the statement of U.S. Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart(R-FL), Economic Development, Public Buildings and Emergency Management Subcommittee Ranking Member, from today’s hearing to examine federal green buildings initiatives.Watch Rep. Diaz-Balart’s statement on YouTube.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7bEa07pi-fM“Clearly the stimulus has not worked. We were promised unemployment would be capped at 8% if the stimulus passed. We are now at 9.5% and rising.“We were promised the creation of 3.5 million jobs, but we’ve lost 2 million jobs since the stimulus was enacted.“Now more than ever, we have to emphasize the need to create jobs for this nation.“The stimulus included $5.5 billion for the GSA Federal Building Fund and designated $4.5 billion for ‘measures necessary to convert GSA facilities to High-Performance Green Buildings.’ “I support efforts to reduce energy consumption and to examine ways in which the federal government can help minimize the environmental impact of its facilities. This is a worthy goal.“However, as I have stated before, I believe such efforts must be based on scientifically-proven technologies and done in such a way that supports American industries and creates jobs. I expressed concerns in previous hearings that the focus of GSA funding included in the stimulus is on ‘greening’ federal buildings, instead of creating jobs.“The two objectives are not mutually exclusive; however, the priority should be job creation. “I do hope, as Acting GSA Administrator Paul Prouty indicated before this Committee in April, these projects will ‘stimulate job growth in the construction and real estate sectors and long-term improvements in energy efficient technologies….’ However, this has yet to be seen from the stimulus funds.”
07.16.2009	Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart, Chair- For Immediate Release -CHC Members to Participate in CHLI Future Leaders Annual ConferenceWASHINGTON, DC-Tomorrow the Congressional Hispanic Leadership Institute (CHLI) will host its 3rd annual Future Leaders Conference in Washington, DC. Members of the Congressional Hispanic Conference including Chairman Mario Diaz-Balart, Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, and Congressman Lincoln Diaz-Balart, who serves as Chairman of CHLI, will participate in the event and offer remarks. “It is a pleasure to once again take part in this event, which each year gathers young professionals and an impressive list of panelists to discuss issues of importance in our hemisphere like democracy, trade and foreign policy. I commend CHLI for its dedication and commitment to the Hispanic community and look forward to continuing to work towards strengthening its role in policy-making, advocacy and outreach,” said Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart, Chairman. “The CHLI Future Leaders Conference does a wonderful job of bringing together student leaders and policymakers to tackle the grave problems facing the United States and in this instance, Latin America. From the challenges to democracies and the rule of law in the Western Hemisphere to narco-terrorism, this Conference provides the perfect setting to engage our youth and share ideas on resolving serious international issues. I am honored to be speaking before such an industrious and capable group,” said Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen.The CHLI Conference will take place on Friday, July 17, 2009 from 8:30 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. in the Congressional Auditorium of the Capitol Visitor’s Center in the U.S. Capitol. The theme of the Conference is “Democracy in the Americas: Challenges and Opportunities for the Leaders of Tomorrow.” The event is free and open to summer interns, congressional staffers, and young professionals. For more information or to RSVP, please visit www.chli.org/events.
07.10.2009	WASHINGTON, DC-This morning Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), the Ranking Member of the Economic Development, Public Buildings, and Emergency Management Subcommittee, joined Ranking Member John Mica (R-FL) and other Members of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee to outline the failures of the stimulus bill. He called the stimulus bill a “dismal failure.” “With unemployment at a 26-year high, Americans have realized that the promises made with the passage of the so-called stimulus were in fact just empty promises. We have yet to see the much touted jobs and immediate economic turnaround.“The Administration promised that with the passage of the stimulus, unemployment would not rise above 8% and 3.5 million jobs would be created. Instead, an additional 2 million jobs have been lost and unemployment has increased to 9.5% across the nation and 10.2% in Florida, since the passage of the bill,” said Diaz-Balart.To read ABC's coverage of the press conference visit:https://blogs.abcnews.com/thenote/2009/07/republicans-stepping-up-antistimulus-rhetoric.html
07.01.2009	COLLIER— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart will host a town hall meeting tomorrow, Wednesday, July 1st, with the Golden Gate Estates Homeowners Association to discuss issues important to the community, including the housing crisis, foreclosures, transportation efforts and federal funding for Collier County. Media is invited to attend the meeting. WHAT: Town Hall meeting with Golden Gate Estates Homeowners Association members and homeownersWHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart and the Golden Gate Homeowners AssociationWHEN: Wednesday, July 1, 2009 at 11:30 a.m.WHERE: Golden Gate Fire Station #71, 100 13th Street SW, Naples, Florida 34117Adriana PereiraPress SecretaryCongressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25)Office: (202) 225-2778Mobile: (202) 285-3073
06.29.2009	WASHINGTON, DC –"I support legislation that reduces emissions and that would invest in renewable energy to help lessen our dangerous dependence on foreign sources of energy. Unfortunately, the cap and trade bill before Congress amounts to all pain, imposing a national energy tax on all Americans, with little, if any, gain for the environment or our country.""As Energy Secretary Chu and OMB Director Orszag have both said, a cap and trade bill will raise the costs of energy and American made goods. All sides of this debate agree that it will increase taxes on consumers; the question is just a matter of how much more. As unemployment continues to rise in Florida and across the country, it is irresponsible to impose a job killing measure that harms our economy. This bill could lead to over 66,000 job losses in Florida alone," Diaz-Balart continued."Enacting this legislation, without binding agreements with China, India, and other major greenhouse gas emitting nations, will result in the exporting of American jobs overseas.""While this bill does little to reduce global warming, it will reduce American jobs, American prosperity, and American competitiveness," said Diaz-Balart.U.S. Congressmen Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) issued the following statement today regarding the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009 (H.R.2454):For Immediate Release
06.23.2009	For Immediate Release:June 22, 2009* * * Press Availability * * * MIAMI, FL – U.S. Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) joined a bipartisan Congressional Delegation trip to Haiti today led by Rep. Kendrick B. Meek (D-FL) and with his colleagues Reps. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-FL), and Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL).The members will hold a joint press conference upon landing in Miami at 5:30 PM. Media will be able to get footage of members exiting the plane. This trip to Haiti is the first time all five Members of the South Florida Congressional Delegation travel jointly on a CODEL. Diaz-Balart has been a long time supporter of the people of Haiti and has continuously requested that Temporary Protective Status be granted to Haitian nationals living in the United States, especially in the wake of the destruction caused by the 2008 hurricane season. During their trip to Haiti, the Members met with Haitian President René Préval and the CODEL also met with key leaders in the Haitian business community and various non-governmental organizations. WHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL)Congressman Kendrick B. Meek (D-FL)Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL)Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL)Congressman Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-FL)WHAT: Press availability at 5:30 p.m. upon arrival to Miami on Monday, June 22nd regarding trip to Haiti with Members of the South Florida Congressional Delegation. ***NOTE: Media set-up at 5:15PM since Delegation will likely arrive early.WHERE: Signature Aviation Airport at Miami International Airport5700 NW 36th Street Phone: 305 526 6344MEDIA CONTACT: Nilda Pedrosa (MDB) at nilda.pedrosa@mail.house.gov or 202-225-5245
06.18.2009	For Immediate Release:June 18, 2009MIAMI—This week Miami-Dade County will co-host the South Miami-Dade Career Resources Expo at the Southland Mall in Cutler Bay in conjunction with Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart’s office and other community organizations.The event is open to the public and there will be more than 90 organizations, businesses and companies on site including: UPS, the Homestead Job Corps, the Department of Veteran Affairs, the U.S. Marshalls, Florida International University, Miami-Dade College, University of Phoenix, Dade Medical College and Florida Career College. Members of Diaz-Balart’s staff will be also be present to answer questions, provide guidance and assist constituents on any federal matters. WHAT: South Miami-Dade Career Resources ExpoWHO: Office of Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart, Miami-Dade County, community organizations, businesses and companiesWHEN: Tomorrow, Friday, June 19th at 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.WHERE: Southland Mall, Center Court, 20505 South Dixie Highway, Cutler Bay, Florida 33189
06.18.2009	For Immediate Release:June 18, 2009WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart today introduced the Highway Trust Fund Reclamation Act (the “RECLAIM” Act) which would rescind unused funds, with the exception of highway funding, from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, the so-called “Stimulus Bill” and assign those funds to the soon to be insolvent Highway Trust Fund.“This Administration and Congress have spent trillions of taxpayer money on bailing out Wall Street and Detroit while neglecting to fund our nation’s roads and bridges. We need to invest in our deficient transportation infrastructure system which will create thousands of jobs and stimulate our nation’s economic growth,” said Diaz-Balart. “Unfortunately less than 7% of stimulus funding was dedicated to transportation infrastructure. Instead billions have been spent on increasing government bureaucracies and wasteful spending. This bill will create jobs without further increasing the deficit or the national debt.”
06.16.2009	For Immediate Release:June 9, 2009WASHINGTON, DC-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and Congressman Robert Wexler (D-FL) announced that they have introduced the Congressional Contaminated Drywall Caucus in the House of Representatives. This follows bi-partisan efforts by both Members to address serious concerns in Southern Florida and across the nation caused by Chinese drywall. “The Caucus brings together a strong working group of Members, creates awareness of a serious issue that is putting families across America at risk, and ensures that the issue be prioritized in Congress. Contaminated Chinese drywall is silently affecting the health and well-being of not only Floridians, but also families in 13 other states and it is critical that Congress and the federal government take action now to prevent long-term devastation,” said Diaz-Balart. “It is clear Chinese drywall is a growing national problem, with Florida, Virginia, Louisiana, and thirteen additional states reporting the presence of this hazardous material in the homes of their citizens. It is only right that members of Congress take action and work in sync to resolve this devastating problem. The Congressional Contaminated Drywall Caucus will bring together Members of Congress who share my grave concern for the thousands of homeowners dealing with this silent hurricane and allow us to better coordinate a response on behalf of these victims,” said Wexler. Last month, Diaz-Balart and Wexler introduced H.R. 1977, the Drywall Safety Act, which would require the Consumer Product Safety Commission to study drywall imported from China from 2004 to 2007 and would place an interim ban on drywall exceeding 5% organic compounds. They also passed an amendment to the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act calling for the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to conduct a study of the effects of contaminated Chinese drywall on residential mortgage loan foreclosures and the availability of property insurance for homes where affected. Most recently, they requested that $2 million in emergency funding be included in the Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2009 to allow expedited research and studies of Chinese drywall. For more information about contaminated Chinese drywall, please visit: https://mariodiaz-balart.house.gov/ and https://wexler.house.gov/
06.04.2009	Urge Senate and House Appropriations Leaders to Include Emergency Funding in Final Supplemental Appropriations BillWASHINGTON, DC-Today, Congressman Robert Wexler (D-FL) and Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) sent a letter to the respective leaders of the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations urging that emergency funding be included in the Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2009 for Chinese drywall investigations by the Consumer Product Safety Commission and other federal agencies. The letter -- addressed to Senate Appropriations Chairman Senator Daniel Inouye, Vice Chairman Senator Thad Cochran, and House Appropriations Chairman David Obey and Ranking Member Congressman Jerry Lewis -- emphasizes that the Senate agreed to this funding on May 21st, 2009 and that it should remain in the final Conference report on the appropriations legislation.“The health and safety impacts of Chinese drywall must be determined by the Consumer Product Safety Commission, and funding from Congress will help ensure the ability of officials to complete these vital studies,” said Congressman Wexler. “Thousands of families in South Florida and across the nation await a conclusion regarding the Chinese drywall in their homes. I strongly believe we must pinpoint the dangerous substances within Chinese drywall and move forward on a solution for the many homeowners dealing with this devastating problem.”“This funding is essential for a comprehensive investigation of the health and safety hazards caused by Chinese drywall in Southern Florida and throughout the country,” said Congressman Diaz-Balart. “This is a critical issue that is affecting the health and wellbeing of thousands of families and must be prioritized. It is important that we act now to avoid devastating results and long term affects.” Congressman Wexler and Congressman Diaz-Balart have also registered the Congressional Contaminated Drywall Caucus with the Committee on House Administration to better coordinate efforts in Congress to help the thousands of Americans dealing with this silent hurricane. Wexler and Diaz-Balart will seek the membership of the twenty current cosponsors of their legislation, the Drywall Safety Act of 2009, as well as other interested members, on the caucus.To access the letter visit: https://wexler.house.gov/pdfs/appropsconference.pdf
06.01.2009	MIAMI—Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) marked the start of the 2009 Atlantic Hurricane Season by urging our community to prepare.“Hurricanes pose a serious threat to our safety and well being and cannot be taken lightly. It is vital that we take the proper measures to prepare our families and secure our homes."Preparation and organization are key elements that can prove to be life-saving in the case of a hurricane hitting our shores.“I remain hopeful that our communities will be spared from the tragedy of a storm, but we must nonetheless be prepared to face the possibility of a hurricane or natural disaster striking our coastal regions,” said Diaz-Balart. Last month, Diaz-Balart introduced legislation in Congress that would benefit not only Floridians and residents in coastal regions of the U.S., but also all American families.*H.R. 2592, the Safe Building Code Incentive Act provides post-disaster financial assistance to states with enacted and enforced statewide building codes.*H.R. 2591, the Integrated Public Alert and Warning System Act would require FEMA to modernize and implement an integrated public alerts and warning system.*H. Res. 387 supports the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s (NOAA) National Hurricane Preparedness Week, taking place May 24-30. It passed the house earlier this month.As the Ranking Member of the Economic Development, Public Buildings and Emergency Management Subcommittee, of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, which has oversight of FEMA and the nation’s emergency preparedness and response efforts, Diaz-Balart also co-sponsored the FEMA Independence Act, which would make FEMA its own agency, separate of DHS, ensuring more accountability and preparedness.
05.29.2009	MIAMI-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart made the following statement regarding the appointment of U.S. Attorney Alex Acosta as the new Dean of the Florida International University Law School.“Alex Acosta has proven to be an exceptional leader with a record of success. He has the ability to lead a team and knows how to engage individuals and bring them together to accomplish goals. “As a Miami native, he knows and understands the needs of our community. In his new role as Dean of the FIU Law School, he is well positioned to work with faculty and students to integrate academic, service and leadership components, ensuring that the school continues to move on a path of success. “I trust that Alex will bring a unique and fresh perspective to the Law School and I look forward to working with him in this new role. I commend President Maidique for once again selecting the best possible person to ensure that FIU continues to grow as one of the leading universities in our nation,” said Diaz-Balart.
05.27.2009	COLLIER—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart will take part in the opening ceremony of the new Collier County Emergency Services Center on Thursday, May 28th at 2:00 p.m. “The opening of the new Emergency Services Center marks the culmination of years of hard work in planning and preparing by the staff and elected officials of Collier County,” said Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart. “I am proud to have secured federal funding for this important project, which is vital to the safety of Collier County residents and their families, and will ensure dependable and swift response to a hurricane, natural disaster or emergency.”WHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart, Congressman Connie Mack and Collier County elected officialsWHAT: Collier County Emergency Services Center Grand OpeningWHEN: Thursday, May 28th at 2:00 p.m.WHERE: Collier County Bureau of Emergency Services, 8075 Lely Cultural Parkway, Naples, FL 34113
05.26.2009	MIAMI—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart will host a Hurricane Preparedness Roundtable with local mayors and public officials to discuss and coordinate hurricane relief efforts between local municipalities, Miami-Dade County and the State of Florida. The event will take place at the Miami-Dade County Emergency Operations Center in Doral on Wednesday, May 27th. There will be a media availability immediately following the roundtable discussion at 11:45 a.m. “With hurricane season upon us, it is important that we take the necessary steps as a community to prepare our families and our homes. “As elected officials, we have come together to coordinate local, state and federal preparedness and relief efforts to ensure rapid response in the event of an emergency, but it is also important that individuals be prepared. I urge all residents to do their part and make sure they are prepared for the threat of a hurricane. “Hurricane season cannot be taken lightly and although I remain hopeful that our communities will be spared form the tragedy of a storm, we must take the proper measures to prepare,” said Diaz-Balart. Diaz-Balart will also unveil three bills that he recently introduced in Congress:H.R. 2592, the Safe Building Code Incentive Act provides post-disaster financial assistance to states with enacted and enforced statewide building codes.H.R. 2591, the Integrated Public Alert and Warning System Act would require FEMA to modernize and implement an integrated public alerts and warning system. H. Res. 387 supports the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s (NOAA) National Hurricane Preparedness Week, taking place May 24-30. It passed the house earlier this month. As the Ranking Member of the Economic Development, Public Buildings and Emergency Management Subcommittee, of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, which has oversight of FEMA and the nation’s emergency preparedness and response efforts, he also co-sponsored the FEMA Independence Act, which would make FEMA its own agency, separate of DHS, ensuring more accountability and preparedness. WHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart, local Mayors and public officialsWHAT: Press Conference to Promote Hurricane Preparedness and Awareness and Introduce Legislation (following a roundtable discussion with local Mayors and elected officials)WHEN: Wednesday, May 27th at 11:45 a.m.WHERE: Miami-Dade County Emergency Operations Center, Press Room, 9300 NW 41st Street, Miami, Florida 33178
05.19.2009	WASHINGTON, DC—Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) announced that Monica Aranegui will serve as District Representative in Collier County. Aranegui joins Karen Harmon, Congressional Aide, in Diaz-Balart’s Golden Gate office.“For many years, Monica has been involved with our office through her community activism in Golden Gate, Miami-Dade, and other areas of District 25,” said Diaz-Balart. “Monica knows and understands the needs of our community and is dedicating to serving others. I welcome her to our office and look forward to her working with our team to continue serving the residents of Southwest Florida.” Diaz-Balart’s Collier County District Office is located at 4715 Golden Gate Parkway, Suite 1, Naples, Florida 34116 and staff may be reached at 239-348-1620 (Tel) or 239-348-3569 (Fax). Aside form regular business hours, Monday-Friday, 9:00a.m.-5:00 p.m., Diaz-Balart staff are available to constituents during outreach hours at the following locations:Immokalee-Farm Worker’s Village1800 Farm Worker WayImmokalee, FL 241422nd Wednesday of every month10:00 a.m.-11:30 a.m.Collier County Library, Immokalee Branch417 North First StreetImmokalee, FL 341422nd Wednesday of every month3:00 pm - 5:00 pmEverglades City Hall207 BroadwayEverglades City, FL 341391st Tuesday of every month3:00 pm - 5:00 pm
05.12.2009	WASHINGTON, DC—Today the House passed H. Res. 387, a resolution introduced by Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), encouraging hurricane awareness and preparedness and supporting the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s (NOAA) National Hurricane Preparedness Week, taking place May 24th-30th. The 2009 hurricane season begins on Monday, June 1st.“With hurricane season fast approaching, I am pleased that my colleagues have once again joined me in supporting this important resolution highlighting the need to be prepared for the possibility of a hurricane hitting our shores,” said Diaz-Balart. “The threat of a hurricane cannot be taken lightly and although I remain hopeful that our communities will be spared from the tragedy of a storm, all residents in coastal regions must nonetheless take proper measures to prepare our families and secure our homes.”The resolution urges Americans to be aware of the potential risks posed by hurricanes and to take action in preparing for the fast-approaching 2009 season. It also supports the goals and ideals of National Hurricane Preparedness Week and recognizes the outstanding work of staff at NOAA, including those at the National Weather Service and National Hurricane Center, in predicting hurricanes and preparing the community.The House passed similar legislation introduced by Diaz-Balart last Congress. This year, 29 Members of Congress joined him as co-sponsors of the bill. To watch Diaz-Balart debate the resolution on the House floor, please visit: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IWvFk5PcWS0
05.08.2009	MIAMI—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will join FIU in its grand opening of the Integrated Intelligent Transportation System Laboratory (IITS) at the Lehman Center for Transportation Research (LCTR) this coming Monday, May 11, 2009 at 10:30 a.m. FIU-IITS is one of the most sophisticated laboratories in the nation, equipped with a video wall, central software, ITS devices, servers and operator workstations. The result of a joint effort between the Florida Department of Transportation (FDOT) and FIU’s College of Engineering and Computing, the lab is a smaller scale version of the FDOT traffic management centers. It will serve as a major research and education tool and allow students a hands-on experience with transportation system operations and management. WHAT: Grand Opening of the Integrated Intelligent Transportation System Laboratory at the FIU Lehman Center for Transportation ResearchWHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart and FIU faculty and staffWHEN: Monday, May 11, 2009 at 10:30 a.m.WHERE: FIU Engineering Center, 10555 West Flagler Street, Room EC 3730, third floor, located on the corner of Flagler Street and Southwest 107th Avenue.
05.08.2009	WASHINGTON, DC-Today, an amendment introduced by Congressman Robert Wexler (D-FL) and Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) calling for the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, in consultation with the Secretary of Treasury, to conduct a study of the effect of the presence of contaminated Chinese drywall on residential mortgage loan foreclosures, was added to the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act. The amendment also requires these agencies to study the availability of property insurance for homes where Chinese drywall is present. The legislation passed today by a vote of 300 to 114.Congressman Wexler and Congressman Diaz-Balart are urging the federal government to swiftly respond to thousands of families in South Florida and across the country concerned about the corrosive damages and serious health risks posed by Chinese drywall used in their homes. Wexler and Diaz-Balart have written a letter to House Appropriations Committee Chairman David Obey (D-WI) and Ranking Jerry Lewis (R-CA) requesting at least $2 million in emergency funding for Consumer Product Safety Commission to conduct critically needed studies on the problem substances within Chinese drywall.“Parents who have found Chinese drywall in their homes and wish to leave out of concern for the safety and health of their children are facing the dilemma of how to find secondary housing and maintain their mortgages on their primary residences,” said Congressman Wexler. “In addition, the values of these homes in most cases have plummeted due to this tainted drywall. I am pleased that this important amendment took this step forward today and look forward to working with Congressman Diaz-Balart and the rest of my colleagues in Congress who want to see the federal government act swiftly on this unfortunate issue.”“This is an important issue that affects not only the residents of Southern Florida but also thousands of homeowners nationwide. Chinese dry wall presents a serious health hazard of great concern and is resulting in homeowners walking away from their homes. My priority is to keep our families safe and ensure that they can live in a sound and stable environment. It is critical that we address this problem swiftly to avoid devastating results in our communities and long-term effects on the health and wellbeing of our families. I thank Congressman Wexler for his support and look forward to working with him and other colleagues on taking the necessary actions to address the issue,” said Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL).
05.08.2009	WASHINGTON, DC-Today, Congressman Robert Wexler (D-FL) and Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) sent a letter to Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Lisa Jackson and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Acting Director Dr. Richard Besser urging the agencies to act as quickly as possible in testing and determining the health and safety risks posed by Chinese drywall. Last month, Congressman Wexler took part in a multi-agency briefing that concluded these tests are necessary in order for the Consumer Product Safety Commission to act on this issue. In the letter, Wexler and Diaz-Balart emphasize the possibility that the effects of Chinese drywall could worsen with the summer heat and the need for swift action. They also encourage the agencies to coordinate with the Florida Department of Health, which has already conducted some preliminary testing."The families living in homes with Chinese drywall are facing a real emergency, and it is crucial that the federal government handle this situation as such," said Congressman Wexler. "The sooner these tests are completed, the sooner we will know what the appropriate actions are available to respond to this crisis. This problem extends far beyond South Florida. It is a growing national problem that deserves a swift federal response."“This is an important issue that affects not only the residents of Southern Florida but also thousands of homeowners nationwide. It is critical that we address this problem as soon as possible to avoid devastating results in our communities and long-term effects on the health and wellbeing of our families,” said Congressman Diaz-Balart. Congressman Robert Wexler and Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart have also sent a letter to the House Appropriations Committee requesting that at least $2 million in emergency funding be provided to these federal agencies in order to ensure they have the resources to complete this crucial testing. Yesterday, the first federal legislation regarding Chinese drywall passed the House of Representatives when an amendment requiring the Department of Housing and Urban Development to examine the effect of Chinese drywall on foreclosures was included in the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act.Watch videos of Congressman Wexler and Congressman Diaz-Balart speaking on the House floor about the need to act on Chinese drywall visit: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7NIkk9B5S-M AND https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ttRz2kw-K5s&feature=channel_pageThe letter to the EPA and the CDC is available for download: https://wexler.house.gov/pdfs/epacdcdrywall.pdf.
05.07.2009	MIAMI—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will host the annual Congressional Art Competition “An Artistic Discovery” tomorrow, Friday, May 8 at 4:00 p.m. in his Miami District Office. “Each year the art competition provides an opportunity for students in our community to showcase their amazing talent and creativity,” said Diaz-Balart. “I look forward to meeting this year’s participants and congratulating them in person for their extraordinary work,” said Diaz-Balart.The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 as a way to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of young constituents. Since then, over 650,000 high school students have participated in the nationwide competition, which is hosted by the U.S. House of Representatives. Each spring a winner is selected from each Congressional District in the U.S. This year, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart received more than 45 submissions of art work from students in Miami-Dade and Collier Counties, which will be on display at the open house tomorrow. The winning artwork from District 25 will be announced in the coming weeks and will be displayed for one year in the U.S. Capitol in Washington, DC. WHAT: Congressional Art Competition Open House to display artwork submissions from students participating in the national Congressional Art Competition—Open to the PressWHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart and high school students from District 25WHEN: Friday, May 8, 2009 at 4:00 p.m. WHERE: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart’s Miami District Office, 12851 SW 42nd Street, Suite 131 (second floor), Miami, FL 33175
05.01.2009	MIAMI—This week Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) introduced H. Res. 387, a resolution supporting the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s (NOAA) National Hurricane Preparedness Week, taking place May 24-30. Today he co-chaired a Congressional field hearing at the James L. King Federal Justice Building in Miami that focused on the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) and Florida’s readiness for the 2009 Atlantic hurricane season.“The devastating aftermath of Hurricanes like Katrina, Wilma and Rita is a chilling reminder of the serious threat we face each year. Hurricane season cannot be taken lightly and it is vital that we take the proper measures to prepare our families and secure our homes,” said Diaz-Balart. This resolution urges Americans to be aware of the potential risks posed by hurricanes and to take action in preparing for the fast-approaching 2009 season. It also supports the goals and ideals of National Hurricane Preparedness Week and recognizes the outstanding work of staff at NOAA, including those at the National Weather Service and National Hurricane Center, in predicting hurricanes and preparing the community. “I remain hopeful that our communities will be spared from the tragedy of a storm, but we must nonetheless be prepared to face the possibility of a hurricane or natural disaster striking our coastal regions,” said Diaz-Balart. 21 Members of Congress have co-sponsored the resolution thus far.
04.30.2009	MIAMI-U.S. Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) will co-chair a Congressional field hearing in Miami this Friday, May 1st at 10:00 a.m. at the James L. King Federal Justice Building in Downtown Miami. The hearing, titled “Are Florida and the Nation Ready for the 2009 Hurricane Season?” will focus on the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) and Florida’s readiness for the 2009 Atlantic hurricane season. It will be co-chaired by U.S. Rep. Eleanor Holmes-Norton of Washington, DC. The hearing will be open to the public and media. There will be a media availability at 12:45 p.m. or immediately follow the hearing. Rep. Diaz-Balart, as well as other Members of Congress, will be available for questions and interviews. Diaz-Balart is the Ranking Member of the Economic Development, Public Buildings and Emergency Management Subcommittee, of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, which has oversight of FEMA and the nation’s emergency preparedness and response efforts. Hurricane season begins June 1st and Florida is the state most at risk. The 2009 season forecast predicts 12 named storms, six hurricanes and two major hurricanes.Witnesses scheduled to testify at the hearing include:-Mr. Major P. May, Regional Administrator – Region IV, Federal Emergency Management Agency -Dr. Edward N. Rappaport, Deputy Director, National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration National Hurricane Center -Mr. Ruben Almaguer, Deputy Director, Florida Division of Emergency Management -Ms. Karen Hagan, Disaster Officer, Florida, American Red Cross -Jonathon Lord, Assistant Director, Miami-Dade Department of Emergency Management and Homeland SecurityWHO: Congressman Mario-Diaz-BalartWHAT: Congressional Field Hearing and Media AvailabilityWHEN: Friday, May 1st at 12:45 PM (or immediately after the hearing)WHERE: James L. King Federal Justice Building, 99 Northeast 4th Street, Miami, Florida 33132For more information regarding Friday’s hearing, please contact Adriana Pereira at (202) 225-2778 or Justin Harclerode at (202) 226-8767.
04.22.2009	WASHINGTON, DC-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) made the following statement regarding Earth Day, encouraging Floridians to take part in environment protection, preservation and restoration efforts. “Each day we are reminded of how fragile our environment is,” said Diaz-Balart. “In Florida, we are lucky to have one of the most diverse environments in the world including Everglades National Park, Big Cypress National Preserve and Florida Bay, which I have the honor of representing, and Lake Okeechobee, beautiful beaches, coastal lines and waterways. We must continue efforts to create awareness and encourage protection, preservation and restoration of our unique environment so that it is there for future generations to enjoy.”A few things you can do to help the environment:-Recycle-Use energy efficient appliances-Purchase recycled products-Use natural fertilizers-Plant natural vegetation in your yard-Turn off a light when leaving a room-Turn off the air conditioning unit before leaving the house-Unplug appliances while not in use-Conserve water by installing low-flow shower hea
04.14.2009	MIAMI-On Monday, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) visited Florida International University and met with University Park Student Government Association President Arthur “AJ” Meyer, Vice President Paige LaPointe and a group of student leaders to discuss issues important to the FIU student body and the South Florida community.“Coming to FIU is like coming home. Each time I visit the campus I am impressed by the level of professionalism and civic engagement that FIU students have and the energy with which they go about getting things done at school and in our community. Undoubtedly, these are the future leaders of South Florida and our nation, and they are already leaving their mark at FIU,” said Diaz-Balart. Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart with AJ Meyer and Paige LaPointe. Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart speaks to a group of FIU student leaders.
04.14.2009	COLLIER-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), the Ranking Republican of the Transportation and Infrastructure’s Subcommittee on Economic Development, Public Buildings and Emergency Management, announced that he is hosting a Transportation Roundtable tomorrow, April 15th in Naples, to discuss the upcoming Surface Transportation Reauthorization Bill. Media availability at 2:00 p.m., immediately following the discussion. Please contact Adriana Pereira at Adriana.Pereira@mail.house.gov with questions.“As Congress prepares to move forward with Transportation Reauthorization, it is critical to discuss the transportation needs of our community and make clear the priorities of residents in Collier County and Naples,” said Diaz-Balart. “I look forward to hearing from residents, community leaders and local officials on ways in which we can improve traffic flow and ensure safety on our roads.” WHAT: Transportation Roundtable DiscussionWHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-BalartWHEN: Wednesday, April 15, 2009, Media Availability promptly at 2:00 p.m. WHERE: Edison State College, Collier Campus, 7007 Lely Cultural Parkway, Building J, Room 104, Naples, FL 34113
04.13.2009	MIAMI- U.S. Congressmen Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) issued the following joint statement today describing as a “serious mistake” President Obama’s decision to unilaterally increase travel and remittance dollars for the Cuban dictatorship. “President Obama has committed a serious mistake by unilaterally increasing Cuban-American travel and remittance dollars for the Cuban dictatorship. During his inaugural address on January 20, President Obama stated, ‘to those who cling to power through corruption and deceit and the silencing of dissent, know that you are on the wrong side history; but that we will extend a hand if you are willing to unclench your fist.’ “Despite the Cuban dictatorship increasing its repression of pro-democracy activists, torturing countless prisoners of conscience, and refusing to allow human rights activists and observers into the country, President Obama has violated his pledge of January 20 by unilaterally granting a concession to the dictatorship which will provide it with hundreds of millions of dollars annually. Unilateral concessions to the dictatorship embolden it to further isolate, imprison and brutalize pro-democracy activists, to continue to dictate which Cubans and Cuban-Americans are able to enter the island, and this unilateral concession provides the dictatorship with critical financial support. “We call upon President Obama to not grant any further unilateral concessions to the Cuban dictatorship and to insist upon the three fundamental goals for Cuba enshrined in U.S. law which have long constituted a bipartisan U.S. Policy of State: The liberation of all political prisoners, the legalization of all political parties, independent labor unions and the press, and the scheduling of free, internationally supervised elections,” said the Diaz-Balarts.Obama Comete Grave Error Respecto a la Tiranía CubanaMIAMI- Los Congresistas Lincoln Díaz-Balart (R-FL) y Mario Díaz-Balart (R-FL) hoy hicieron pública la siguiente declaración conjunta describiendo como un “grave error” la decisión del Presidente Obama de unilateralmente aumentar los dólares que la tiranía cubana recibirá por viajes y remesas. “El Presidente Obama ha cometido un grave error al unilateralmente aumentar los dólares que recibirá la tiranía cubana debido a viajes y remesas de cubano-americanos. Durante su discurso de toma de posesión el 20 de enero, el Presidente Obama declaró, ‘a aquellos que permanecen en el poder a través de la corrupción y la mentira, y silenciando a la disidencia, sepan que están del lado equivocado de la historia; pero que estamos dispuestos a extender una mano si ustedes están dispuestos a abrir el puño’.“A pesar de la creciente represión perpetrada contra opositores internos por la tiranía cubana, de la tortura de innumerables presos de conciencia, y de prohibirle la entrada a Cuba a activistas y observadores de derechos humanos, el Presidente Obama ha violado su promesa del 20 de enero al unilateralmente hacerle una concesión a la tiranía que le proveerá cientos de millones de dólares anualmente. Concesiones unilaterales a la tiranía la envalentonan para continuar aislando, encarcelando y brutalizando a los activistas en favor de la democracia, a continuar dictando qué cubanos y cubano-americanos pueden entrar en la isla, y esta concesión unilateral le provee apoyo económico crítico a la tiranía. “Le pedimos al Presidente Obama que no le haga ninguna otra concesión unilateral a la tiranía cubana y que insista en las tres metas solidarias para Cuba que están en la ley de Estados Unidos y que por largo tiempo han constituido una Política de Estado bipartidista de Estados Unidos: La liberación de todos los presos políticos, la legalización de todos los partidos políticos, los sindicatos obreros independientes y la prensa, y la convocatoria de elecciones libres con supervisión internacional,” dijeron los Diaz-Balarts.
04.02.2009	Washington, DC – A program to help save lives and limit potential damages in communities before natural disasters strike would be reauthorized under a bill approved by a Congressional panel today. The bill is cosponsored by U.S. Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), the Economic Development, Public Buildings and Emergency Management Subcommittee Ranking Member.H.R. 1746, the Pre-Disaster Mitigation Act of 2009, is a three-year reauthorization of the Pre-Disaster Mitigation program, administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The program provides for proactive, cost-effective steps to help state and local governments prepare for disasters and reduce the impacts of disasters on people’s lives and property.“Mitigation works,” said Diaz-Balart. “It saves lives, limits future damage, and reduces federal disaster costs.”Installing shatter-resistant windows, seismic strengthening of buildings, and acquiring flood-prone homes are examples of mitigation activities undertaken through this program to help prevent disaster-related injuries and deaths and reduce post-disaster costs. Storm shutters installed in five Broward County, Florida fire stations, for example, helped the buildings withstand Hurricane Wilma when it struck and allowed those stations to function in the immediate aftermath of the storm.“The Pre-Disaster Mitigation program is a proven success,” Diaz-Balart continued. “Two independent studies have shown that for each federal mitigation dollar spent the taxpayer saves over three dollars in future disaster assistance. The program is an important resource for communities working to protect lives and reduce property damage from disasters.” The bill authorizes $250 million per year for fiscal years 2009-2011. The bill was unanimously approved by the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.
03.31.2009	WASHINGTON, DC-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), announced the conclusion of a month-long tribute celebrating Women’s History Month and honoring influential women in District 25, the State of Florida, nationally and internationally. “This month we celebrate the accomplishments of women in our nation and around the world. Women everywhere are breaking barriers and reaching new heights in just about every realm including the political arena, the business world, the fields of medicine and journalism, and in advocacy and human rights. Their contributions shape our society and make a difference everyday. It is unfortunate that in some areas of the world, women continue to struggle for equality. It is my hope that the lives and work of so many that have already achieved greatness, can serve as inspiration for those who continue their struggle,” said Diaz-Balart. Throughout the month of March, Diaz-Balart honored several women whose contributions have helped shape society by recognizing them on the House floor. The following women’s stories were including in this month’s Congressional record:Mayela Rosales, Journalist and Executive Vice President of Azteca America Southwest FloridaLynda Bell, Mayor of the City of HomesteadJeanette Varela, President of Florida Equipment and Parts, Inc.Remedios Diaz-Oliver, President and CEO of All American Containers, Inc.Karin Brown, President of the Florida Parent Teacher AssociationStephanie Kopelousos, Secretary of the Florida Department of TransportationIleana Ros-Lehtinen, Congresswoman for Florida’s 18th DistrictDebbie Wasserman Schultz, Congresswoman for Florida’s 20th DistrictCelia Cruz, Cuban performer, singer and entertainerAung San Suu Kyi, Political prisoner in countryDamas de Blanco (Ladies in White), pro-democracy advocate group in Cuba
03.27.2009	WASHINGTON, DC-This week Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) became an original co-sponsor of the American DREAM Act, which seeks to facilitate access to postsecondary educational opportunities for immigrant students in the U.S. who currently face barriers in pursuing a college education. He made the following statement:“I am proud to be an original co-sponsor of legislation that will give legal immigrant children the opportunity to continue their education past high school by enabling them to attend college,” said Diaz-Balart. “These young adults are hard-working students with bright futures ahead. They carry with them a desire to succeed and give back to our nation and deserve access to quality higher education.”
03.26.2009	WASHINGTON, DC-Today Congressmen Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-FL) expressed outrage over a serious health hazard at the VA Medical Center in Miami.“This is a very disturbing matter with the potential of having severely impacted many of our veterans. We are outraged at the lack of accountability and oversight that may have caused this serious health hazard to take place, and we have asked for hearings in Congress to investigate the matter promptly and seriously. “Anyone receiving public healthcare, especially our veterans who have done so much for this country, deserve top quality care and should not have to worry about risks such as this one. Sending a letter of notification to patients is not enough. The VA needs to act immediately and to use every means available to communicate to all patients potentially at risk,” said Mario Diaz-Balart and Lincoln Diaz-Balart.On Monday, the VA Medical Center in Miami announced that all patients having undergone an endoscopy or colonoscopy from May 2004 to March of this year, are at risk of having contracted Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C or HIV, due to improper hygienic use of equipment.Patients who have had these procedures performed at the VA Medical Center should immediately contact the Special Care Call Center, available 7 days a week, 24 hours a day, at 305-575-7256 or toll free at 1-877-575-7256 to schedule an appointment for a blood test screening. Constituents may also contact Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart’s District Office at 305-225-6866 or Congressman Lincoln Diaz-Balart’s District Office at 305-470-8555.
03.26.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – Reps. Carolyn B. Maloney (NY), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), Shelley Moore Capito (WV), Rosa DeLauro (CT), Marcy Kaptur (OH), Mario Diaz-Balart (FL) and Mary Fallin (OK) today reintroduced the “National Women’s History Museum Act” (H.R. 1700) to create a new national museum on the Mall in Washington, DC to honor the role that women have played in American History.“The museums and memorials in our nation’s Capitol demonstrate what we value,” Rep. Maloney said. “We have museums dedicated to flight, postage stamps, law enforcement and many other people and causes, but nothing for women. Less than five percent of the 2,400 national historic landmarks chronicle women's achievement. And of the 210 statues here in the U.S. Capitol, only nine are of female leaders. This bill would provide women, comprising 53% of our population, a long overdue home to honor their many contributions to building our great country.”“Women constitute the majority of our population. They make invaluable contributions to our country through family, government, corporations, education, medicine, law, literature, sports, entertainment, the arts, and the military services. The need for a museum recognizing the contributions of American women is of long standing,” Sen. Collins said. “Such a museum would demonstrate the gratitude and respect we owe to the many generations of American women who have helped build, sustain, and advance our society.” Senator Collins is expected to introduce the Senate companion shortly.“The women who have persevered for years to develop the idea of a National Women’s History Museum have shaped a vision that I am proud to co-sponsor as legislation. They deserve the support of the American people in the task of raising a museum in the nation’s capital that places the history of the women in our nation front and center in the nation’s capital,” Rep. Norton said.“From the writings of Abigail Adams, to the women of the suffrage movement, to America’s mothers – women have been at the forefront of shaping our nation’s future,” Rep. Capito said. “With this bill we can truly honor their work, remember their sacrifice and teach their many lessons to the next generation of Americans.”“It is important to showcase the achievements, invaluable contributions and impact that women have had in the U.S. and around the world. A National Women’s History Museum would offer a venue that would honor the role women have played in writing our nation’s history,” said Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart. The bill directs the General Services Administration (GSA) to sell its old Cotton Annex property on the Mall at 12th and Independence to the museum at fair-market rates. The museum would be built and maintained with private funds.
03.25.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-FL), along with Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) and Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), today asked President Obama to promptly grant Temporary Protected Status (TPS) to Haitian nationals living in the United States in the wake of the destruction caused by the string of storms that have hit Haiti last hurricane season. TPS is meant to provide work permits and a safe haven to nationals from a foreign country that are present in the United States until it is safe for them to return to their country.Following please find the letter sent by the Congressmen to President Obama today:“Dear President Obama:We are writing to reiterate our support for your Administration granting Temporary Protected Status (TPS) to Haitian nationals in the United States.As you know, the Haitian people are still struggling to recover after a string of natural disasters destroyed many parts of their country. During last year’s hurricane season, four back-to-back tropical storms ravished Haiti leaving widespread devastation on the island nation and killing hundreds. The flooding and mudslides caused by the storms left Haiti’s already precarious infrastructure in tatters with many bridges, roads, water and sanitation systems, schools, hospitals and homes destroyed. An entire season’s crop harvest was wiped out, causing food prices to skyrocket and Haitians to riot because of their inability to provide food for their families. To this day 150,000 still survive on donated food. Reports state that the storms destroyed 15 percent of the GDP of a country that is considered the least developed in the Western Hemisphere and a recent report found that Haiti is the 7th must vulnerable country in the world to the economic downturn. Although months have passed since the storms hit Haiti, the country is far from returning to a state of normalcy. The recovery efforts are hampered by the Government of Haiti’s lack of the necessary resources to provide basic services, let alone adequately provide for its citizens after this string of natural disasters. The deportation of over 30,000 Haitian back to their country will only further destabilize the country and leave it without much of the remittances that help many Haitian families survive. A U.S. State Department travel warning issued in January illustrates the hazardous nature of the situation in Haiti. The State Department warning specifically cited the “destructive impact” of the storms when warning of travel to Haiti. Another State Department report says that many parts of the country are experiencing “chronic shortages” of food and says there are “no safe areas” in Haiti. Congress established TPS as a safe haven for those foreign nationals who cannot safely return to their home country due to ongoing armed conflict or because of an environmental disaster. Clearly, the destruction caused by the four storms in Haiti does not allow the safe return of Haitian nationals to their country, and as such we strongly believe the Administration should provide TPS to the Haitian nationals currently in the United States.Thank you for your kind consideration of this important matter. Lincoln Diaz-Balart Ileana Ros-Lehtinen Mario Diaz-Balart”
03.25.2009	WASHINGTON, DC- Please find below the text of a letter sent by U.S. Members of Congress Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Kendrick Meek (D-FL), Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Albio Sires (D-NJ), Robert Andrews (D-NJ) and Frank Pallone (D-NJ), on March 24, 2009, to President Barack Obama regarding U.S. policy toward the Cuban dictatorship. The Congressmen are members of the Congressional Cuba Democracy Caucus. March 24, 2009 The Honorable Barack ObamaPresident of the United States of AmericaThe White HouseWashington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President:As Members of the Congressional Cuba Democracy Caucus, who represent the overwhelming majority of Cuban Americans in the United States, we would like to briefly share with you some thoughts concerning U.S. Cuba policy.Just 90 miles from our shores, extraordinary men and women are struggling daily against a brutal 50 year-old dictatorship and look to this great nation for solidarity. Your presidency comes at a decisive moment for Cuba. You will have an extraordinary opportunity to assist the Cuban people in finally achieving their freedom. CUBA MEASURES IN THE FY 2009 OMNIBUS APPROPRIATION ACTWe agree with the interpretation of the general license for agricultural travel and the definition of cash-in-advance requiring payment before shipment from U.S. ports, as outlined in Secretary Timothy Geithner’s March 9, 2009 letters to U.S. Senators Bill Nelson and Bob Menendez. However, in regard to Cuban American travel, we are troubled by the explanation in the “Guidance on Implementation of Cuba Travel and Trade-Related Provisions of the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2009” that the general license grants “unlimited” lengths of stay in Cuba. We believe that this will serve to channel U.S. taxpayer dollars directly to the regime because retirees and Supplemental Security Income recipients could remain on the island indefinitely while collecting U.S. taxpayer-provided benefits.U.S. SanctionsThe goal of freedom for the Cuban people has long been a U.S. policy of state, supported by Administrations and Congresses of both political parties. This U.S. policy of state becomes more important each day with the serious illness of Fidel Castro, the ultimate power in the very personalized totalitarian Cuban dyarchy. In a bipartisan fashion, Administrations and Congresses have insisted that before the U.S. makes any concessions to the Cuban regime, all political prisoners must be freed, all political parties, the free press and labor unions legalized, and internationally supervised elections scheduled. Any easing of sanctions, without demanding any concessions lessening the oppression of the people by the regime, will serve to strengthen the dictatorship and demoralize the Cuban people. Aid to the Pro-Democracy MovementAs you will recall, Congress, by strong bi-partisan majorities, recently appropriated a significant increase in U.S. aid to the pro-democracy movement in Cuba. Congress has also consistently supported funding for Radio and T.V. Marti, which provide the Cuban people with uncensored information that the regime attempts to block, and which also provide pro-democracy activists a vehicle to share their messages throughout the island.Congress was very clear in its intent that the United States should increase aid to the pro-democracy movement inside Cuba. We look forward to working with you to make certain that U.S. assistance reaches the pro-democracy movement in an efficient and expeditious manner. We also look forward to working with you to make certain that Radio and T.V. Marti continue to be funded and improved to better serve the U.S. national interest in a democratic transition for the people of Cuba.The International CommunityToo many in the international community are seeking to assist the Cuban dyarchy in its goal of obtaining unilateral concessions from the United States and succeed in its attempt at absolutist succession once Fidel Castro dies. It is critically important for the international community to receive a clear message that the Obama Administration stands firmly and clearly on behalf of a genuine democratic transition in Cuba, and will not grant the Cuban dictatorship any unilateral concessions. All our friends in the international community should be urged by your Administration to join the U.S. in demanding free, multi-party elections for Cuba.Cuba’s Political PrisonersThe Cuban dictatorship will attempt to use political prisoners as a bargaining tool with your Administration. Please recall how the regime has used political prisoners in the past in this manner, only to detain hundreds more once its immediate goals were reached. We will continue to do all we can to bring to light the inhuman conditions suffered by Cuba’s political prisoners and to call for their unconditional release. Your solidarity and advocacy on their behalf is critical, and it can serve as inspiration, not only for the hundreds of thousands of patriots who have been incarcerated for their beliefs, but for the entire Cuban nation.We would look forward to joining you in a strong demonstration of support for Cuba’s freedom.Sincerely, Lincoln Diaz-Balart Debbie Wasserman Schultz Ileana Ros-Lehtinen Kendrick MeekMario Diaz-Balart Albio SiresRobert Andrews Frank Pallone
03.17.2009	WASHINGTON, DC-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) made the following statement regarding the reckless behavior of AIG executives and some in Congress. “Americans are only beginning to feel the wrath of TARP and its effects should come as no surprise. Speaker Pelosi, Congressman Frank and Senator Dodd wrote a blank check to bailout an industry crumbling because of corruption and greed, and they have sat back and let that industry continue to abuse its power. “The actions of AIG are what happen when legislation is passed irresponsibly, recklessly and without allowing for debate. Americans are outraged and with reason. This is an insult to taxpayers and an embarrassment to those who recklessly allowed this bill to pass the House.“There is no for excuse to rewarding bad behavior. AIG got itself into a financial mess because of the corruption, greed and recklessness of its executives, now benefitting from hefty bonuses. American families are facing unprecedented economic hardships, people are loosing their jobs and small businesses are barely getting by. Taxpayers should not have to foot the bill of corruption and greed on Wall Street. “The Administration and Congress need to get serious and hold AIG and others accountable for their actions. Not a penny more should be given to bailout these companies without accountability in place,” said Diaz-Balart.
03.16.2009	MIAMI-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) announced that he is hosting Super Saturday on March 21st in conjunction with the City of Homestead, the Homestead Family YMCA and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Tax assistance free of charge for constituents earning less than $42,000 will be available through the Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) program at the Homestead Family YMCA center. Certified IRS volunteers will also be available to help qualified homeowners whose mortgage debt was partly or entirely forgiven.* Representatives from the following organizations and government agencies will also be on site at the Harris Field Pavilion to provide information on their services and answer questions:Consumer Credit Counseling Services, Department of Children and Family Services, Goodwill South Florida, Homestead Family YMCA, Human Services Coalition, Miami-Dade County, Department of Voter Registration, Project S.O.S. – Homestead Police, Social Security Administration, South Florida Urban Ministries-South, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development*If you need a tax return prepared with these specifications, you must be pre-screened for an appointment. Please call Barbara Terry, IRS Senior Tax Consultant, at (305) 982-5082 for more information.WHAT: South Dade Super Saturday: free tax assistance by IRS certified volunteers and services from government agencies.WHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart, the City of Homestead, the Homestead Family YMCA and the IRSWHEN: Saturday, March 21, 2009, 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.WHERE: Homestead Family YMCA and the Harris Field Pavilion, 1034 NE 8th Street, Homestead, FL 33030 (located on the intersection of US 1 and Campbell Drive, Turnpike Exit 2)Diaz-Balart Patrocina “Super Sábado” en HomesteadFeria de Impuestos, Servicios Gratuitos del Gobierno disponible para residentes del Sur del Condado Miami-DadeMIAMI-Hoy el Congresista Mario Diaz-Balart (Republicano de Florida) anunció que está patrocinando el “Super Sábado” una Feria de Impuestos y Servicios gratuitos del Gobierno, este sábado, 21 de marzo, conjuntamente con el IRS, la Cuidad de Homestead y YMCA de Homestead. Aquellas personas con un ingreso anual por debajo de $42,000 califican para recibir la ayuda gratuita y preparar sus declaraciones de impuestos a través del programa VITA (Volunteer Income Tax Assistance). Varios voluntarios certificados por el IRS estarán también disponibles para ayudar a aquellos propietarios cuyas deudas hipotecarias les fueron perdonadas parcial o completamente.*También habrá información disponible sobre los servicios ofrecidos por varias agencias gubernamentales y organizaciones comunitarias, entre ellos:Consumer Credit Counseling Services, Departamento de Niños y Familias, Goodwill del Sur de Florida, YMCA de Homestead, Human Services Coalition, Departamento de Registro de Votación del Condado Miami-Dade, Proyecto S.O.S. de la Policía de Homestead,Administración del Seguro Social, South Florida Urban Ministries-South y el Departamento de la Vivienda.*Se requiere una sita previa para este servicio. Por favor llame a Barbara Terry del IRS al (305) 982-5082 para mas información. QUE: Super Sábado en Homestead-Feria de Impuestos y Servicios Gratuitos del GobiernoQUIEN: Congresista Mario Diaz-Balart, IRS, Ciudad de Homestead y el YMCA de Homestead.CUANDO: Sábado, 21 de marzo, 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.DONDE: Homestead Family YMCA y el Harris Field Pavilion, 1034 NE 8th Street, Homestead, FL 33030 (en la intersección de US 1 y Campbell Drive, salida 2 en la carretera Turnpike)
03.12.2009	WASHINGTON, DC-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) addressed the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce during their19th Annual Legislative Conference on Capitol Hill. “Americans are facing a tough economic reality and the last thing Congress should do is continue to raise taxes on families and small businesses, double the national debt and spend billions on interest alone. Unlike some in Washington, American families and small businesses do not have the luxury of not paying their taxes. “Among other proposals that would help jump-start our economy are two critical ones to the Hispanic community that are not getting any attention. A free trade agreement with Colombia would create jobs here at home, especially within the Hispanic community. Congress must show its support for this key ally in the region by approving a free trade agreement. “Comprehensive immigration reform is another issue that has been promised and is way overdue. This is a nation of immigrants, built by immigrants. We must fix our broken immigration system by securing our borders, recognizing the large undocumented population and providing a reasonable path to legalization,” said Diaz-Balart.
03.10.2009	WASHINGTON, DC-Today Congressmen Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) reintroduced the Congressional Everglades Caucus. Founded in 2006, Diaz-Balart and Hastings are Co-Chairs of the Caucus and leaders in Congress for Everglades restoration and preservation. “The Florida Everglades are one of the true ecological wonders of the world, but their existence is in jeopardy due to decades of abuse,” said Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart. “As the sole Member of Congress representing Everglades National Park and co-chair of the Everglades Caucus, creating awareness and ensuring federal funding for restoration and conservation efforts remain a top priority of mine. I join Congressman Hastings in thanking our colleagues in the House who remain supportive of our efforts to restore and preserve the Everglades, so that future generations can enjoy it.” “As co-founder of the House Everglades Caucus, I have always been a lead proponent in rebuilding the everglades and safeguarding its natural resources,” said Congressman Alcee L. Hastings. “America’s Everglades is the largest sub-tropical wilderness under major distress. Restoring this exclusive ecosystem requires national recognition and fiscal commitment. I am hopeful of not only reclaiming the natural flow and abundance of the everglades ecosystem, but also boosting economic growth in the upcoming years. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the isle in raising awareness in Congress about the importance of the everglades in an effort to ensure that it is preserved and protected.”The Everglades Caucus is a bipartisan group whose mission is to promote legislation that provides long-term funding for Everglades related projects that ensure restoration and preservation of this unique ecosystem. The following is a list of members of the Everglades Caucus to date: Congressmen Thomas J. Rooney, Adam H. Putnam, Robert Wexler, Ron Klein, Cliff Stearns, C.W. Bill Young, Connie Mack, Lincoln Diaz-Balart, Vern Buchanan, Debbie Wasserman Schultz and Allen Boyd.
03.06.2009	WASHINGTON, DC-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) made the following statement regarding Women’s History Month: “This month we celebrate the accomplishments of women in our nation and around the world. Women everywhere are breaking barriers and reaching new heights in every realm including the political arena, the business world, the fields of medicine and journalism, and in advocacy and human rights. Their contributions shape our society and make a difference everyday. It is unfortunate that in some areas of the world, women continue to struggle for equality. It is my hope that the lives and work of so many that have already achieved greatness, can serve as inspiration for those who continue their struggle,” said Diaz-Balart.
03.06.2009	WASHINGTON, DC-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), a senior member of the House Budget Committee, made the following statement on the economic realities facing our nation.“American families are hurting, people continue to lose their jobs, retirement savings and pensions are dwindling, and the stock market is on a downward spiral. The President’s budget proposals, reminiscent of Hoover economics, have only further aggravated the current economic situation. “The Administration’s idea of economic relief during a time of recession includes raising taxes by an unprecedented $1.4 trillion on American families and small businesses, doubling the national debt in eight short years, and spending additional billions on interest alone. The budget even proposes a tax increase on everyday energy use, burdening Americans at the pump and as they struggle to pay monthly electricity bills. “Unlike some in Washington, American families and small businesses do not have the luxury of not paying their taxes.“It is my hope that President Obama puts American families first and reconsiders his budget plan for the sake of Main Street. America needs to get back on its feet but cannot do so with leaders that are not mindful of the harsh reality and economic hardships facing our nation,” said Diaz-Balart.
03.04.2009	WASHINGTON, DC-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), the Ranking Republican of the Transportation and Infrastructure’s Subcommittee on Economic Development, Public Buildings and Emergency Management, made the following statement regarding the nomination of Craig Fugate as Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).“Craig Fugate has been at the helm of disaster preparedness, response and recovery in Florida through 23 declared state of emergencies. He understands the importance of being prepared as a community and ensuring that Florida’s families are safe during and after natural disasters and emergencies. “Through excellent coordination with local governments and other state officials, Craig has brought Florida to the forefront of emergency management and preparedness, mitigation efforts, as well as homeland security strategies.“With a proven leader and someone we can trust as Administrator, it is the right moment to move forth in making FEMA an independent agency and giving Craig the tools and access he needs to ensure accountability and get the job done.“Once confirmed, I am confidant that FEMA will greatly benefit from the leadership of Craig Fugate. I look forward to working with him in his new capacity to ensure all Americans have the most responsive agency to rely on during times of need,” said Diaz-Balart.Along with other leaders of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Diaz-Balart recently introduced H.R. 1174, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Independence Act of 2009. The Subcommittee on Economic Development, Public Buildings and Emergency Management has oversight of FEMA, as well as other agencies and programs promoting economic development and the federal real estate program and public buildings service.
02.28.2009	WASHINGTON, DC— This week Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) supported the extension of trade provisions with Andean nations and pledged his support to continue fighting for a Free Trade Agreement with Colombia. He made the following statement:“I support free trade with free and democratic nations and will continue advocating passage of the agreement with Colombia, one of our greatest and strongest allies in the region. I am very pleased that the House passed a temporary extension of Andean Trade Preferences. Since its inception, this provision has brought forth economic alternatives for workers in Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru and Colombia and ensured growth, while allowing us to work on long term agreements. “Free trade with free peoples strengthens democracies and our allies in the region. It creates jobs and economic opportunities here in the U.S. and no one benefits more from free trade with Latin America than the Hispanic community in our country,” said Diaz-Balart.
02.26.2009	Washington, D.C. – House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure leaders, Chairman James L. Oberstar (D-MN) and Republican Leader John L. Mica (R-FL), today introduced H.R. 1174, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Independence Act of 2009.Representatives Oberstar and Mica, along with Delegate Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC) and U.S. Representative Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Chairwoman and Ranking Republican Member of the Subcommittee on Economic Development, Public Buildings, and Emergency Management, introduced the FEMA Independence Act of 2009.“The poor response following Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005 was predictable given the dismantling of FEMA within Department of Homeland Security,” Mica said. Mica continued, “After we passed the Post-Katrina Emergency Management Reform Act in 2006 and many of the pieces were put back together, problems continue to persist at FEMA. Burying FEMA in a large department has undermined its ability to respond quickly to disasters and lines of communication and accountability continue to be confused. I want to thank Chairman Oberstar for showing leadership on this very important issue.”"FEMA must be quick and nimble and have a direct line to the president to lead and direct federal assets to a disaster zone. Maneuvering inside a large bureaucracy creates unnecessary delays,” Mica added.“As a Representative of a state that has seen its fair share of natural disasters, I know first-hand the importance of having a timely and efficient response system,” said Diaz-Balart. “FEMA is currently buried in a large department and hindered from acting quickly and with agility, resulting in unnecessary delays that impact the states and communities that count on its assistance.” “This important legislation will ensure FEMA has the authority, tools and resources it needs to carry out its mission. It will also provide a level of accountability that has been lacking to date,” Diaz-Balart added. FEMA was placed in the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) when the department was created by Congress in 2002. The proposed legislation would remove FEMA from DHS and establish it as an independent agency, as it had been prior to moving to DHS.The House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee has oversight jurisdiction over FEMA.
02.26.2009	WASHINGTON, DC—Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart, a senior member of the House Budget Committee, made the following statement regarding the release of President Barack Obama’s proposed FY2010 Budget. “Just days after convening a fiscal responsibility summit, President Obama has presented a fiscally irresponsible budget, loaded with massive tax hikes and runaway spending. “At a time of economic anxiety and high unemployment, hard-working families and small businesses are counting pennies and the last thing Washington should do is continue to raise their taxes. “The budget does nothing more than increase the national debt, bring back to life the death tax, and raise taxes particularly on small businesses, which are the real job creators. It is in no way mindful of the current economic crisis or the financial hardships that American families are facing.“This reckless budget revives the era of big and bloated government and encourages a spending spree. It is clear that we are back in a Jimmy Carter tax and spend era and should not be surprised when the results are similar, if not worse,” said Diaz-Balart.
02.20.2009	COLLIER—Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart announced that the Redlands Christian Migrant Association (RCMA) in Immokalee has received a grant for the Migrant and Seasonal Head Start Program from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. “Over the years, I have watched RCMA expand their services to reach those who most need it,” said Diaz-Balart. “The positive impact of RCMA has been felt not only in our community but also throughout the entire state of Florida. I appreciate the high quality child care and assistance that families receive at the centers and the professionalism and dedication of the RCMA staff.” “This funding allows us to continue services to 1800 migrant children infants, toddlers and preschoolers throughout rural Florida,” said RCMA Executive Director Barbara Mainster. “And of great importance it means, as a grantee now, we will be able to apply for expansion funding to serve more children in need here in Immokalee. We are grateful to have been selected.”For decades, RCMA has provided child care and early education for children of migrant farm workers and rural, low-income families throughout the state of Florida. It is the largest non-profit child-care provider in the state and serves almost 8,000 children throughout 75 centers in 21 of Florida’s counties.
02.19.2009	MIAMI—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) is one of six Members of Congress taking part in a Congressional Delegation visit to Iraq, Afghanistan, Kuwait and Bahrain this week. Upon his return, he will host a media availability to discuss the details of his trip, in which he has visited U.S. Military Bases and met with U.S. troops, toured areas of Iraq and the region, met with government officials, and received briefings on the progress being made in the region. Please contact Adriana Pereira at 202-225-2778 to confirm your participation or schedule an interview. WHAT: Media Availability upon return from CODEL to Iraq, Afghanistan, Kuwait and BahrainWHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-BalartWHEN: Monday, February 23, 2009 at 11:00 a.m.WHERE: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart’s district office,12850 SW 42 Street, Suite 131 (2nd floor),Miami, Florida 33175RSVP: Adriana Pereira, 202-225-2778 or Adriana.Pereira@mail.house.gov
02.19.2009	WASHINGTON, DC-Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) is one of six Members of Congress taking part in a Congressional Delegation visit to Iraq and other areas of the region this week. Below are his reactions to the situation in Iraq. On progress in Iraq: “Things are going very well, but the situation is still delicate. It would be a tragedy if, for political reasons, we abandon these efforts. The results are visible, in comparison to when I was last here. Violence has dropped dramatically, people are opening small businesses and children are playing in the streets,” said Diaz-Balart.On recent elections: “The recent elections were very positive for the future of Iraq. Those political parties with ties to Iran were defeated. We cannot let Iraq fall into the hands of terrorists, but instead enable it to thrive as a democracy. We must listen to the Iraqi people and their officials who best know the needs of their country,” said Diaz-Balart. On U.S. troops: “The thing that has impressed me the most is the dedication of the men and women serving in uniform. They are the best and the brightest in our nation and I am impressed by their effort, patriotism and commitment,” said Diaz-Balart. On getting the job done: “What we are hearing from the U.S. commanders and the Iraqi government is that we are winning. U.S. presence cannot be permanent but things are going very well, and right now is not the time to abandon the cause,” said Diaz-Balart. Diaz-Balart first visited Iraq in November of 2003. He is joined by Reps. Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Bobby Bright (D-AL), Duncan Hunter (R-CA), Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA) and Stephen Cohen (D-TN). The delegation has met with U.S. troops and Iraqi government officials, has toured areas of Iraq including Baghdad, Saab al Bour and U.S. Military Bases, and received briefings on the progress being made in the region.Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart with children at a market in Saab Al Bour (outside of Baghdad).Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart with troops at Camp Phoenix, Baghdad.
02.13.2009	WASHINGTON, DC-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) made the following statement regarding the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.“We are once again faced with an economic stimulus bill that fails to prioritize job creation and will only stimulate the federal bureaucracy. This is a spending bill, not a stimulus. Just like the TARP bailout, it is an irresponsible blank check we cannot afford. “This spending bill charges every American household $9,418 in order to possibly give back a maximum of $800 to only some. Madoff couldn’t have done better. “Less than 4% of this $789 billion bill goes to transportation infrastructure and less than 1% goes to stimulate small businesses, which represent 99% of Florida’s employers and are the real job creators. “Our economy needs a real stimulus package that will create jobs now and provide American families and small businesses the tax relief they need. Unfortunately this very expensive spending bill will do very little to stimulate the economy and that is why I voted against it,” said Diaz-Balart.Diaz-Balart is the Ranking Republican of the Transportation and Infrastructure’s Economic Development, Public Buildings and Emergency Management Subcommittee. This week he introduced H.Res.163, a resolution seeking more accountability for billions of dollars in proposed stimulus funding for the General Services Administration, which manages federal real estate property.
02.13.2009	WASHINGTON, DC-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart made the following statement regarding Black History Month.“Black History Month is a time to reflect and honor past leaders in the Black community that have made invaluable contributions to society. It is also a time to honor those present leaders that continue to make a difference, as we have seen with the recent historic presidential elections. “During this time we are also reminded of the great progress we have made as a nation, what we can accomplish through dedication and hard work, and the bright future that lies ahead. In this great democracy of hope and opportunity, let us not forget that all things are truly possible,” said Diaz-Balart.
02.12.2009	Washington, DC – A measure seeking more accountability for billions of dollars in proposed stimulus funding for the federal agency that manages federal real property was introduced in the House today by U.S. Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL).Diaz-Balart is the Ranking Republican of the Economic Development, Public Buildings and Emergency Management Subcommittee. The Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Republican Leader, John L. Mica (R-FL), as well as Subcommittee members Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Mary Fallin (R-OK), Brett Guthrie (R-KY) and Anh “Joseph” Cao (R-LA) are cosponsors of the measure (H.Res. 163 –click here).At a Subcommittee hearing yesterday, Diaz-Balart outlined his concerns that the stimulus package may provide billions of dollars in funding to the General Services Administration (GSA) with little effective oversight of how the funds will actually be spent. “This resolution calls for an emphasis on creating jobs and increasing oversight of taxpayer dollars being used for public buildings,” said Diaz-Balart. “It is critical that we ensure effective oversight to avoid wasteful spending of taxpayer dollars. The current bill is not a job-creating stimulus bill – it is nothing more than a bill to grow the federal bureaucracy. Just like the TARP bailout, it is a blank check that we cannot afford. The Subcommittee has the obligation to make sure the funds are used for what they are intended and that jobs are created in the process.”GSA is the largest public real estate organization, managing over 8,600 real estate assets with close to 354 million square feet of space. These assets include federal office buildings, courthouses, land ports of entry, and warehouses located in all 50 states, the territories, and the District of Columbia. GSA projects include new construction, repairs and maintenance, and acquisition.The resolution is intended to provide at least some oversight guidance to GSA in how it proceeds with projects that would be funded by any stimulus legislation. The only oversight mechanisms currently proposed in the stimulus package to avoid such wasteful spending only serve to highlight problems after money is already obligated or spent. The resolution expresses the sense of the House of Representatives that: 1) The General Services Administration should not proceed with any project for which a prospectus has been submitted to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, unless the prospectus is approved and the project does not exceed 10% of the amount approved. In conducting oversight of this issue, the Committee has the responsibility to approve worthwhile projects and reject wasteful ones. This provision is intended to make clear that GSA should not proceed with projects the Committee has intentionally not approved and considers wasteful. 2) The Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure should receive a detailed plan, including the number of jobs created, by project, prior to GSA taking any actions in furtherance of the project. While similar reporting requirements were contained in both the Senate and House versions of the stimulus package, the bills only required reports to the Appropriations committees.
02.11.2009	Washington, DC – The Economic Development, Public Buildings and Emergency Management Subcommittee held a hearing today on the economic recovery role of the General Services Administration (GSA), the civilian landlord of the federal government.The current House and Senate stimulus packages both provide billions of dollars in funding to GSA, while providing for little effective oversight of how the funds will be spent. The stimulus packages also focus more on energy efficiency rather than creating the most jobs. The following is the opening statement of U.S. Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), the Ranking Member of the Economic Development, Public Buildings and Emergency Management Subcommittee from today’s hearing:(Link to video of Rep. Diaz-Balart’s statement)“I thank Chairwoman Norton for holding this hearing today on GSA’s economic recovery role.We must ensure effective oversight to avoid wasteful spending of taxpayer dollars. We can not afford a TARP repeat. In this case, Congress is proposing spending billions more and we have an obligation to ensure these funds will be used appropriately and not wasted.Last month, the House passed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Yesterday, the Senate passed what is being called a ‘compromise.’While the stated purpose of this legislation is to create jobs and promote economic recovery, there are real questions as to the whether the various proposals would, in reality, provide the taxpayers with the best return on their investment.Specifically, we are focusing today on the General Services Administration. The House-passed bill includes $7.7 billion for the Federal Building Fund. The Senate is now proposing $5.5 billion. In addition, there are billions more going directly to other agencies for their capital projects.While the proposals provide additional funding to the Inspectors General and include some transparency provisions, I am still concerned that provisions that would provide for meaningful Congressional oversight of capital projects are not included in the legislation.We know that at the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee hearing last month on the stimulus proposal, the GAO recommended three guiding principles for GSA projects:(1) create well-defined goals based on identified areas of interest,(2) incorporate performance and accountability into funding decisions, and(3) employ the best tools and approaches to emphasize return on investment.None of these practical suggestions to help avoid wasteful spending of taxpayer dollars has been incorporated into the legislation. Instead, we have mechanisms that will only serve to highlight problems after money is already obligated or spent.We know that the potential for waste is huge. Federal real property has been on the GAO’s high risk list since 2003. And, according to the GAO, long-standing problems in the federal real property area have multi-billion-dollar cost implications. Unfortunately, the proposals pending in Congress would appropriate billions of dollars with little accountability. The funds for GSA will be going into the hands of GSA bureaucrats to spend however they see fit.In fact, there seems to be little that would prevent the funds from being used for projects this committee intentionally rejected.We can and should hold oversight hearings, like today’s hearing, but we know that GSA will be responding to competing interests. And, given explicit language in the Senate proposal regarding courthouses, GSA could very well decide to spend $1 billion on a single project that this committee repeatedly refused to approve because of its wasteful nature. While such a project would be reported to the Appropriations committees and posted on the newly created Recovery.gov website, not even the standard checks and balances normally in place for such projects will apply.The proposed bill not only ignores the prospectus process normally required for such projects, this committee is not even included in the reporting requirements mandated in the legislation. Another concern that I have relates to whether the proposal focuses enough on the actual creation of jobs, which is the stated purpose of the legislation.For example, while energy efficiency is something that the federal government should strive for, it seems that energy efficiency and conservation is given greater consideration in the pending proposals than is job creation.The House-passed bill gives priority to projects that will create the greatest impact on energy efficiency and conservation. The Senate version goes even further to require that nearly half of the proposed funds are used to convert GSA facilities into High-Performance Green Buildings, as defined by the Energy Independence and Security Act. While creating efficient buildings is a noble goal that may have long-term benefits, it seems to trump consideration of the immediate need for job creation and stimulus.If we are going to spend billions of taxpayer dollars to stimulate the economy and create jobs, we should have a bill that ensures such a stimulus effect is maximized.One option, for example, is using acquisition as a stimulus. While the proposed bills do not explicitly mention acquisition of property as an option, they do allow for projects authorized under existing GSA authorities, which include acquisition.Such authorities should be encouraged and I am pleased that GSA in its testimony says that it is exploring acquisition as an option.There are many development projects that have either stalled or are at risk because of the economy. This potentially creates an opportunity for the taxpayer to acquire needed property, at significant savings.At the same time, such investments will help to stabilize economic development projects that local economies are relying upon to revitalize neighborhoods and create sustainable jobs.However, I remain concerned. This legislation could be a good opportunity to put in place real solutions that may help address ongoing challenges related to real property management. Instead, the proposed legislation seems to do little to address these concerns and, in fact, may lead to more wasteful spending.We should not repeat the TARP mistake of writing a blank check. There must be meaningful oversight and accountability.I am drafting a resolution that will, at the very least, provide some direction to GSA on avoiding wasteful projects and spending. The resolution would make clear that funds should not be spent on projects this committee has rejected, include this committee on any reporting requirements, and ensure that we know the number of jobs each project will generate. I would hope that this resolution could be a first step in providing some guidance to GSA and minimize the very real chance of wasteful spending. I plan to introduce this resolution later today and I hope that other members of this committee join me in sponsoring it. While there are worthy and necessary projects in the pipeline that need to be funded and which may help to support needed jobs, we must ensure that such large commitments of taxpayer dollars are properly used and managed. And, we must ensure that the priority is job creation.”
02.04.2009	WASHINGTON, DC-El programa SCHIP (State Children’s Health Insurance), o seguro médico para los niños de familias de bajos recursos, fue aprobado hoy por el Congreso estadounidense. El Congresista Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) votó a favor de esta propuesta, que se convertirá en ley esta semana. “Por fin el liderazgo del Congreso trajo al pleno una propuesta de ley que pude apoyar. Aunque hay aspectos que aun son problemáticos, se le añadió a la ley una propuesta del Congresista Lincoln Diaz-Balart que permite que los hijos de los inmigrantes legales reciban el cuidado médico que brinda este programa. La ley incluye, además, una rebaja en los impuestos a los pequeños negocios en Florida,” dijo el Congresista Mario Diaz-Balart. VIDEO: El Congresista Mario Diaz-Balart habla sobre SCHIP: https://www.youtube.com/user/MarioDiazBalart.
01.29.2009	WASHINGTON, DC-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) made the following statement regarding the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.“We need to pass a bill that will stimulate the economy, not the federal bureaucracy. This bill does little to help families and to incentivize small businesses, which are the real job creators. It also lacks an adequate amount of funding for infrastructure projects, which can be put into effect immediately and would bring millions of jobs to our communities.“Congress was recently embarrassed by the TARP bailout bill. This spending bill is just more of the same. It fails to prioritize job creation and provides little, if any accountability and oversight. “We cannot lose sight of our nation’s needs. Our economy is suffering and Americans are paying the price. They need jobs and want infrastructure investment, and Congress needs to pass a responsible bill that addresses these priorities.“At this time I cannot support a bill with little accountability and oversight that does not stimulate our economy, create enough jobs, or invest in our nation’s infrastructure,” said Diaz-Balart.
01.27.2009	Miguel Otero returns as District Director & Deputy Chief of StaffMIAMI—Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) announced that he has promoted Rosa Hernandez to Deputy District Director and that Miguel A. Otero has returned to the District Office to continue his service as District Director & Deputy Chief of Staff. Hernandez will assist Otero in overseeing operations in the Miami and Collier County offices.“Rosa has been committed to serving our community and our constituents with dedication and integrity,” said Diaz-Balart. “She has established relationships with members of our community and brought a new meaning to constituent relations. In her new role, Rosa will play an important role in ensuring that the needs of District 25 continue to be met by my office.”Hernandez joined Diaz-Balart’s team when he was first elected to Congress six years ago. She has worked on countless projects in the Hispanic Community and has lead efforts to enable senior citizens to have access to federal services and benefits, assisted our constituents by coordinating access to experts during tax season, and has created awareness for families by coordinating Internet Safety Forums in District 25.Otero joined Diaz-Balart’s office following the Congressman’s election in the fall of 2002 and was appointed to serve as District Director. In 2006 he took on additional responsibilities as Deputy Chief of Staff. He has been responsible for running operations in the Miami and Collier County district offices, which offer constituent services on all federal issues including IRS, passports, visas, veteran issues, Medicare, military cases, immigration, Housing and Urban Development, and nominations to the U.S. Service Academies, among others. “I have been fortunate to have Miguel on board since before my start in Congress,” said Diaz-Balart. “He has a wealth of knowledge and experience. His dedication and commitment to serve has undoubtedly been integral to the continued growth and development of our outreach and services for the residents of District 25. He is committed to his work and I know that he will continue to lead our district operations with success and enthusiasm.”
01.22.2009	MIAMI—Congressmen Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and Kendrick Meek (D-FL) will participate in a local swearing-in ceremony for the 111th Congress on Monday, January 26th at 10:30 a.m. at the courtyard of the Wilkie D. Ferguson, Jr. United States Courthouse in Downtown Miami. The official Congressional swearing-in took place on January 6th in Washington, DC. The Honorable Fred Moreno, United States Chief District Judge, will conduct the ceremony and will administer the same oath which was given during the official swearing in. WHO: South Florida Members of CongressWHAT: Local ceremonial swearing-inWHEN: Monday, January 26th at 10:30 a.m.WHERE: Courtyard in front of the Wilkie D. Ferguson, Jr. United States Courthouse, 400 North Miami Avenue, downtown MiamiDiaz-Balart participara en ceremonia de juramentoMIAMI- Los Congresistas Mario Diaz-Balart (Republicano de Florida), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (Republicana de Florida), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (Demócrata de Florida), Lincoln Diaz-Balart (Republicano de Florida) y Kendrick Meek (Demócrata de Florida), participaran en una ceremonia de juramento conmemorando el inicio del Congreso el lunes, 26 de enero a las 10:30 a.m. al frente de la corte federal Wilkie D. Ferguson, Jr. en Downtown Miami. El honorable juez Fred Moreno realizara la ceremonia y utilizará el mismo juramento que fue rendido en Washington, DC el 6 de enero en la ceremonia oficial. QUIEN: Miembros del Congreso de los Estados UnidosQUE: Ceremonia de juramentoCUANDO: Lunes, 26 de enero, 10:30 a.m.DONDE: Al frente de la corte federal Wilkie D. Ferguson, Jr. United States Courthouse, 400 North Miami Avenue, Downtown Miami
01.20.2009	WASHINGTON, DC-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) made the following statement regarding the Presidential Inauguration. “I congratulate President Obama on his election as America’s 44th President. There are many reasons why today is historic and among them, today we come together to celebrate the peaceful transfer of power from one leader to another in our great country,” said Diaz-Balart. “The Presidential Inauguration marks a day of celebration in which all Americans cherish the principles of freedom and democracy that make America great.” “As we welcome President Obama, let us also honor all who serve our country including our brave men and women in uniform and others who have taken the oath of office and have pledged to serve our country with distinction.”
01.14.2009	Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) made the following statement regarding the reauthorization of the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), which passed the House this afternoon. “I am pleased that House leadership finally brought to the floor an SCHIP bill that I could support. Although the bill still has imperfections, it does address some of my previous concerns by allowing coverage for legal immigrant children residing in the U.S. and by also reducing the massive tax increase to Florida’s family-owned businesses that would have caused them to close their doors. “We must not lose sight of the focus of the program, which is to maximize enrollment for currently eligible, uninsured, and low-income children so that they have access to quality healthcare,” said Diaz-Balart.
01.13.2009	MIAMI-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) announced that he has nominated 13 high school students from District 25 to attend the U.S. Military Academy, the U.S. Naval Academy and the U.S. Air Force Academy.“I am honored to have chosen such an impressive group of young men and women as my nominees to the U.S. Service Academies,” said Diaz-Balart. “Each of them is talented and eager to serve our country and I trust that they will do so honorably.” In order to join a Service Academy, students must be nominated by their Member of Congress or Senator and then complete the application and admissions process with the specific Academy. Diaz-Balart met with students in Miami on Monday and personally delivered the good news. Academies will make the final decision on acceptance and notify students later this year. “I congratulate the nominees and thank them for taking the first steps to becoming the future leaders of our nation,” said Diaz-Balart. Previous nominees include Warren Lally who graduated from WestPoint in 2007 and Rolando Machado Jr. of the Naval Academy and Rudy Monteagut of the Air Force Academy who both graduate this spring. The 2009 nominees are:U.S. Military AcademyMichael Anthony Stacks Jr., Palmer Trinity SchoolJack Malcom Saint-Juste, Coral Reef Senior High SchoolHugo Nirio Hernandez, Barbara Goleman High SchoolDjeunie Saint Louis, Golden Gate Senior High SchoolKawamen Levey Odiete, Military Academy Prep SchoolU.S. Naval AcademyAndrew Owen Fenaughty, Coral Reef Senior High SchoolRoberto Abel Torrealba, Felix Varela Senior High SchoolKyle David Moros, St. John Neumann High SchoolU.S. Air Force AcademySantiago Daniel Iglesias, Mast AcademyJaime Badui, Mast AcademyBryan Alexander Rivera, American Senior High SchoolMaria Camila Benavides, Coral Reef Senior High SchoolJonathan Michael O’Neil, Barbara Goleman Senior High School
01.13.2009	WASHINGTON, DC-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) joined Colombian President Alvaro Uribe, Former Prime Minister Tony Blair and Former Prime Minister John Howard at the White House for a ceremony awarding them the Presidential Medal of Freedom. “I was honored to be present at today’s ceremony honoring President Alvaro Uribe, Prime Minister Tony Blair and Prime Minister John Howard, whom have demonstrated time after time that they are true friends of freedom and democracy. Their steadfast leadership during challenging times around the world deserves recognition.“President Uribe and the democratically elected government of Colombia is one of our strongest allies in the region. He has led that nation with unprecedented courage and determination and has been successful at improving the lives and safety of the Colombian people. In the last year alone, President Uribe has made significant progress in improving security while advancing freedom in an increasingly unstable hemisphere. It is imperative that we continue to support him and his initiatives, including a Free Trade Agreement and PLAN Colombia, in order to foster continued growth of democracy in the region. “Today’s recognition is a strong statement for advancing the cause of freedom in our region and around the world,” said Diaz-Balart. The Presidential Medal of Freedom is the nation's highest civilian award and recognizes exceptional meritorious service. It was established by President Truman in 1945 to recognize notable service in the war and in 1963 was reintroduced as an honor for distinguished civilian service in peacetime by President John F. Kennedy.See photo attached: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart and Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen joined Colombia President Alvaro Uribe, Former Secretary of State Colin Powell, and Former Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld at the Presidential Medal of Freedom Award ceremony at the White House on January 13, 2009.
01.13.2009	COLLIER-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) released the following statement regarding the case of missing 6-year-old Adji Desir.“My thoughts and prayers are with the family and friends of Adji Desir for a safe return home, said Diaz-Balart. “I urge everyone in our community to come together and offer their support by joining Adji’s family and the Collier County Sherriff’s office in the search efforts.”The office of Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart has canceled its regularly scheduled monthly hours at Farm Worker Village tomorrow morning and instead Congressional Aide Karen Harmon will join the Collier County Sherriff’s office in passing out flyers and assisting in the search. The monthly hours at the Immokalee Library from 3:00 to 5:00 p.m. will take place as scheduled. Constituents who need assistance can always contact the Congressman’s office Monday-Friday, from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. at (239) 348-1620. The office is located at 4715 Golden Gate Parkway, Suite 1, Naples, FL 34116.Link to Naples Daily News Story:https://www.naplesnews.com/news/2009/jan/12/missing-6-year-olds-grandmother-says-boy-may-hide-/
01.12.2009	Recognized for his leadership by both the American Farm Bureau and the Florida Farm BureauMIAMI-Today the American Farm Bureau Federation along with the Florida Farm Bureau awarded Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) the "Friend of Farm Bureau" award. He made the following statement. “I am honored to accept this important award from my friends at the Miami-Dade Farm Bureau. I remain committed to continuing my work on behalf of Florida’s nursery growers and fruit and vegetable farmers to ensure that their voices are heard in Washington,” said Diaz-Balart. “I plan to closely monitor the implementation of last year’s historic Farm Bill, which will have a direct and considerable impact in our own community. Given our unique agricultural industry, Florida is positioned to see substantial benefits, specifically in areas such as Homestead and Immokalee.”See photo attached: Alice Peña presents the Friend of Farm Bureau Award to Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL).
01.09.2009	WASHINGTON, DC-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) was named Ranking Member of the Transportation Committee’s Subcommittee on Economic Development, Public Buildings and Emergency Management. “It is an honor to continue my service on the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, under the steadfast leadership of Chairman Oberstar and Ranking Member Mica,” said Diaz-Balart. “As Subcommittee Ranking Member, I look forward to working alongside Chairwoman Norton, in developing an agenda that will ensure that our infrastructure is stable and that as a nation, we are adequately prepared to respond to any natural disasters or emergencies.”“It is also important that we take into consideration the current economic situation and work together to enhance economic development and growth in those areas of the country that most need it,” said Diaz-Balart.“Congressman Diaz-Balart is a strong proponent of rebuilding and improving our nation’s deteriorating infrastructure, and he is the perfect choice to lead the subcommittee with oversight of federal emergency management programs,” said Committee Ranking Member John L. Mica. “For his entire Congressional career, Mario has supported improving federal disaster preparedness and response efforts. The nation, and particularly the Floridians who continually face the threat of hurricanes and other disasters, have benefited from his hard work.”The Subcommittee on Economic Development, Public Buildings and Emergency Management conducts oversight of programs addressing the Federal management of emergencies and natural disasters including FEMA, oversees several agencies and programs promoting economic development, and has oversight of Federal real estate programs and the Public Buildings Service.This is Diaz-Balart’s fourth term serving on the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. He also sits on the Subcommittee on Highways and Transit and the Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines and Hazardous Materials. During his time in Congress, Diaz-Balart has succeeded in bringing home billions of dollars to improve Florida’s transportation and highways.
01.07.2009	WASHINGTON, DC-- Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) today announced that he has selected Nilda Pedrosa to serve as his new Chief of Staff. Pedrosa will serve as Congressman Diaz-Balart’s principal advisor on political, legislative and policy matters and will be responsible for managing his office and staff.“I am truly pleased that Nilda has agreed to take on this key role as my Chief of Staff,” said Congressman Diaz-Balart. “Her legislative and policy experience, knowledge of the needs of Floridians, and her many years of public service both in the legislative and executive branches of the federal government made her the natural choice to help lead my office as we move forward in the next Congress. With Nilda serving as my point person, and together with the rest of my team, I look forward to pursuing a positive and aggressive agenda on behalf of the residents of District 25.”For the past four years, Pedrosa has served on the staff of United States Senator Mel Martinez, most recently as his Senior Policy Advisor, and previously served as Political Director of Martinez’s successful 2004 Senate campaign. Martinez said: “Nilda has been an essential part of my team since before I took office. She’s done a terrific job and I’m grateful for the contributions she has made on behalf of Floridians. She will be missed, but I can think of no better person to lead my friend Mario’s office, and I wish her the best in this new position.” Previously, Pedrosa was appointed by President Bush to serve as Director of the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs under Secretary of State Colin Powell, and she has also served as Director of Public Policy and Governmental Relations for Miami Children’s Hospital.Pedrosa’s appointment follows the announcement that current Chief of Staff, Thomas Bean will step down to pursue opportunities in the private sector in Florida. “Thomas has my thanks and appreciation for his hard work and contributions over the past six years,” Congressman Diaz-Balart added. “He has honored my office with his tireless dedication to the residents of District 25, and I invite them to join me in wishing him the best in his new endeavors.”
12.19.2008	MIAMI-Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), along with his wife Tia Diaz-Balart, will visit and deliver toys to foster children at the Florida Baptist Children’s Home on Saturday, December 20th at 9:45am. The Diaz-Balart’s will be joined by Ana and Sean Wolfington, producers of the 2006 film Bella, about a former soccer star who finds joy and love in life by taking care of a foster child. The movie received the People’s Choice Award at the Toronto Film Festival last year.The Florida Baptist Children’s Home is a faith-based, nonprofit organization founded in 1904, which dedicates itself to providing shelter and treatment for foster children. Press should contact Adriana Pereira at (202) 285-3073.WHO: Congressmen Mario Diaz-Balart and wife Tia Diaz-Balart, and Ana and Sean WolfingtonWHAT: Holiday visit to foster children at Florida Children’s Baptist HomeWHEN: Saturday, December 20, 2008 at 9:45amWHERE: Florida Baptist House, 7748 SW 95 Terrace, Miami, FL 33156
12.02.2008	MIAMI, FL—Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) made the following statement regarding Senator Mel Martinez’s decision to not seek reelection. “Senator Martinez is the example of a true American success story and living proof of the opportunities that our great country has to offer. As a young man fleeing oppression, he was sent alone to America by his parents. He worked his way to the U.S. Senate, always putting the interests of those he represents first and fighting to preserve liberty and democracy for all. Mel has served this country well and I know that he will continue to do so for the remainder of his term as Senator,” said Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart.
10.30.2008	MIAMI-Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) was awarded the National Association of Manufacturer’s Award at Ryder Corporation for his dedication to the industry. He also visited the Ryder facilities and met with workers and company officials. “In a time of economic hardship, manufacturers are providing jobs to those who most need them in our community,” said Diaz-Balart. “It is an honor to receive this award and I will continue working with our manufacturers to create more jobs and stabilize our economy.”
10.20.2008	MIAMI—Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) announced that he will be joined by Congressman John Boozman of Arkansas’ 3rd District, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment in the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, this Monday, October 20th in Miami. They will meet with officials from South Florida Water Management District and Everglades National Park for a briefing and participate in a fly-over of the Everglades. *Media availability at 11:30 a.m. at Signature Flight Support, Contact: Adriana Pereira at 202-285-3073WHAT: Briefing with South Florida Water Management District and Fly-Over of the Everglades National Park/Media Availability Immediately Following the Events at 11:30 a.m.WHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart, Congressman John Boozman, Executive Director of South Florida Water Management District Carol Wehle, and Superintendent of Everglades National Park Dan KimballWHEN: Monday, October 20, 2008 at 11:30 a.m.WHERE: Miami International Airport, Signature Flight Support, located at 5700 NW 36th Street, Miami, Florida 33122
10.20.2008	MIAMI—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and House Republican Whip Roy Blunt of Missouri will visit the Bouquet Collection plant on Tuesday, October 21st to thank workers and stress the importance of Congress passing a Free Trade Agreement with Colombia. They will be joined by Colombian American leaders in the South Florida Community. *Press Conference to begin promptly at 2:30 p.m.WHAT: Tour of small business and press conference to promote and urge a Free Trade Agreement with ColombiaWHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart, House Republican Whip Roy Blunt and Colombian American leaders in the South Florida Community WHEN: Tuesday, October 21, 2008 at 2:30 p.m.WHERE: Bouquet Collection, 7980 NW 33 Street, Doral, FL 33122
10.07.2008	WASHINGTON, DC—Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) voted against the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act & The Tax Extenders and Alternative Minimum Tax Relief Act (H.R. 1424). He made the following statement. “Despite some cosmetic changes, I voted against this flawed bill because it still forces hard-working Americans to foot a nearly trillion dollar bill to bailout the reckless behavior of Wall Street, before requiring Wall Street to put capital on the table first. “Additionally, this bill issues a blank check to the Secretary of the Treasury with little, if any, oversight and accountability. “It is vital that we make sure that Wall Street has its skin in the game before we put one penny of taxpayers’ hard-earned dollars on the hook. “By mortgaging the financial stability of our children’s future, we are almost guaranteeing the same reckless and irresponsible behavior in the future,” said Diaz-Balart.
10.07.2008	WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will host the second annual Academy Day at the Homestead Air Reserve Base this Saturday, October 11th at 8:30 a.m. “Academy Day is a great opportunity for high school students in our community to learn more about what our talented Armed Forces do each day,” said Diaz-Balart. “I encourage any student who has the desire to serve our country, to join us on this day and learn about the opportunities these academies offer.”On this day, representatives from the U.S. Naval, U.S. Air Force, U.S. Military, U.S. Merchant Marine and U.S. Coast Guard Academies will be on site to meet with and inform perspective students about educational and career opportunities at the service academies. High school students interested in applying to a service academy or eager to learn more about serving for the U.S. Military are encouraged to attend. “There is no work more honorable than serving our country. Our men and women in uniform serve selflessly each day to protect our nation and our freedoms, and they truly are our American heroes,” said Diaz-Balart. *All student participants must RSVP with Gloria Amor at (305) 225-6866.*All PRESS planning to attend must RSVP with Adriana Pereira at (202) 225-2778.WHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart and representatives from the U.S. Navy, U.S. Air Force, U.S. Military, U.S. Merchant Marines and U.S. Coast GuardWHAT: 2nd Annual Academy DayWHEN: Saturday, October 11th, 2008 at 8:30 a.m.WHERE: Homestead Air Reserve Base, 29050 Coral Sea Blvd Homestead, Florida 33039
10.07.2008	MIAMI—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and the IRS have teamed up once again to help residents of Miami-Dade County. Low-income workers, who are not required to file a tax return, may still qualify for the economic stimulus payment. In order to find out, they must submit Form 1040A, which determines eligibility, by October 15, 2008. In the past weeks, representatives from both offices have been at various locations throughout Miami-Dade County to answer questions and guide residents in filling out the forms. The last event will take place this Thursday, October 9th in Homestead at 10:00 a.m. Taxpayers must bring: their Social Security card, a photo I.D. (driver's license) and Form SSA 1099 (which details the amount of Social Security benefits they receive). For more information please contact Kathy Lopez in the Congressman’s Miami office at 305-225-6866. Final Opportunity to Apply for Economic Stimulus Check:Thursday, October 9th10:00 a.m.-2:00 p.m.GALATA916 North Flagler AvenueHomestead, FL 33030 WHAT: Final Economic Stimulus Payment DriveWHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart and the IRS Miami officeWHEN: Thursday, October 9, 2008WHERE: GALATA, 916 North Flagler Avenue, Homestead, FL 33030
09.29.2008	WASHINGTON, DC-Today the House of Representatives voted on the Financial Markets Stabilization Bill. Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) made the following statement.“By rewarding irresponsible behavior, we are almost guaranteeing that same behavior in the future. “This legislation has taxpayers footing the bill to bailout Wall Street for its reckless and irresponsible behavior.“Wall Street should be required to pony up capital before asking the taxpayers to bail them out. Unfortunately this bill does not do that.“Additionally this legislation provides a blank check to the Secretary of the Treasury for almost a trillion dollars.“Those are some of the primary reasons why I voted against this proposed legislation,” said Diaz-Balart.
09.26.2008	WASHINGTON, DC-Today President George W. Bush announced an 18-month extension on Temporary Protective Status (TPS) for Nicaraguan and Honduran nationals in the U.S. Congressmen Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-18) and Lincoln Diaz-Balart (FL-21) made the following statement:“President Bush’s recent decision to extend TPS to Salvadorans, Nicaraguans and Hondurans will undoubtedly bring about much needed relief to the people of those countries. I applaud his decision and call on his administration to do the same for Haitian nationals in this critical time of need.” –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart“This extension to our Nicaraguan and Honduran brothers and sisters will provide much needed relief to these individuals while at the same time assure regional stability in our hemisphere. Our great country once again does the right thing by extending the TPS program. I am also reiterating the request for much needed TPS status to the Haitian community in this time of great need.” –Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen“It is of vital importance that Salvadorans, Hondurans, and Nicaraguans not be sent back to the economic and social hardships and lack of infrastructure existing in their countries at this time. I applaud the decision by President Bush to extend Temporary Protected Status for these nationals.” –Congressman Lincoln Diaz-BalartDiaz-Balarts y Ros-Lehtinen Aplauden Extensión de TPS Para Nicaragüenses, HondureñosPiden Con Urgencia TPS Para HaitianosWASHINGTON, DC-Hoy el Presidente George W. Bush anunció que ha extendido el TPS para los nicaragüenses y hondureños en EE.UU. Los Congresistas Mario Diaz-Balart, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen y Lincoln Diaz-Balart hicieron las siguientes declaraciones:“Sin duda, la decisión del Presidente Bush de extender el TPS para los salvadoreños, nicaragüenses y hondureños permitirá alivio y ayuda a esos pueblos, que mucho lo necesitan. Le agradezco al Presidente este gesto y le pido que tome acción y le ofrezca a los haitianos el TPS en este momento tan critico para ese país.” –Congresista Mario Diaz-Balart“Esta extensión para nuestros hermanos y hermanas nicaragüenses y hondureños les proveerá la ayuda necesaria a estas personas mientras asegura la estabilidad regional en nuestro Hemisferio. Una vez mas nuestra generosa nación toma la decisión correcta extendiendo el Programa de Protección Temporal. Reitero el llamado a que se le otorgue el TPS a la comunidad haitiana en este tiempo de gran necesidad para ellos.” –Congresista Ileana Ros-Lehtinen“Es de suma importancia proteger a los salvadoreños, hondureños, y nicaragüenses de ser enviados a sus países de origen cuando esos países atraviesan dificultades económicas, sociales, y una falta de infraestructura. Aplaudo la decisión del Presidente Bush de extender el TPS para los residentes de estas naciones,” –Congresista Lincoln Diaz-Balart
09.24.2008	MIAMI— Tomorrow, Saturday, October 25, 2008, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will participate in a blood drive for Juan Felipe Pulido at the Miami Children’s Hospital at 2:00-2:30 p.m. Today he asked the South Florida community to come together in support of this noble cause.“There’s no better gift then the gift of life. This young man deserves a chance to grow up and achieve his dreams. I urge everyone in the community to join together and donate blood so that we can bring hope back into the life of this family,” said Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart.WHAT: Blood Drive for Juan Felipe PulidoWHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart and the Community Blood Centers of South Florida WHEN: Saturday, October 25, 2008, from 2:00-2:30 p.m.WHERE: Miami Children’s Hospital, 3100 SW 62nd Avenue, Miami, FL 33155 (next to the emergency room there will be 3 buses to take donations)
09.24.2008	MIAMI—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and the IRS have teamed up once again to help residents of Miami-Dade County. Low-income workers, who are not required to file a tax return, may still qualify for the economic stimulus payment. In order to find out, they must submit Form 1040A, which determines eligibility, by October 15, 2008. In the coming weeks, representatives from both offices will be at various locations throughout Miami-Dade County to answer questions and guide residents in filling out the forms. Taxpayers must bring: their Social Security card, a photo I.D. (driver's license) and Form SSA 1099 (which details the amount of Social Security benefits they receive). For more information please contact Kathy Lopez in the Congressman’s Miami office at 305-225-6866. The first event will take place tomorrow, September 25th at the Casas Park in Hialeah. The following is a list of upcoming events in Miami-Dade County:September 25th2:00-5:00 p.m.“Casas Park”7900 West 32 AvenueHialeah, FL 33018October 2nd9:00-11:00 a.m.Hialeah Gardens Senior Center10001 NW 87 AvenueHialeah Gardens, FL 3301611:30 a.m.-1:00 p.m.Medley Lakeside Retirement Park10601 NW 105 WayMedley, FL 331782:00 p.m.-4:00 p.m.Miami Lakes Community Center15151 Montrose RoadMiami Lakes, FL 33016 October 9th10:00 a.m.-2:00 p.m.GALATA916 North Flagler AvenueHomestead, FL 33030WHAT: Economic Stimulus Payment DrivesWHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart and the IRS Miami officeWHEN: Beginning Thursday, September 25thWHERE: Various locations throughout Miami-Dade CountyDiaz-Balart, IRS Ofrecen Ayuda Gratuita en Conseguir Pago de Estimulo EconómicoMIAMI—El Congresista Mario Diaz-Balart (Republicano de Florida) y el IRS de Miami anunciaron hoy que juntos, ayudaran a los residentes del Condado Miami-Dade que aun no hayan recibido el pago de estímulo económico. Comenzando el 25 de septiembre, trabajadores de bajos ingresos a quien no se le requiere llenar una declaración de impuestos, podrán recibir ayuda en determinar su elegibilidad para recibir el pago. Contribuyentes tienen hasta el 15 de octubre para declarar sus impuestos y calificar para el pago. Representantes de las dos oficinas estarán presentes en varios lugares através del condado para ayudar a aquellas personas que estén interesadas. El proceso es simple pero requiere: la tarjeta del Seguro Social, un identificación con foto (licencia de conducir o pasaporte) y el formulario SSA 1099. Para mas información llame a Kathy Lopez en la oficina del Congresista al 302-225-6866. El primer evento se llevara a cabo mañana, 25 de septiembre en el “Casas Park” de Hialeah. La siguiente lista incluye otras fechas y locales: SEPTIEMBRE 25th2:00-5:00 p.m.“Casas Park”7900 West 32 AvenueHialeah, FL 33018OCTUBRE 2nd9:00-11:00 a.m.Hialeah Gardens Senior Center10001 NW 87 AvenueHialeah Gardens, FL 3301611:30 a.m.-1:00 p.m.Medley Lakeside Retirement Park10601 NW 105 WayMedley, FL 331782:00 p.m.-4:00 p.m.Miami Lakes Community Center15151 Montrose RoadMiami Lakes, FL 33016OCTUBRE 9th 10:00 a.m.-2:00 p.m.GALATA916 North Flagler AvenueHomestead, FL 33030
09.24.2008	WASHINGTON, DC-Today Congressmen Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) voted for H.R.2638, The Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act of 2009. The bill provides a critical increase in funding for our nation’s troops, veterans, and first responders, among other important issues. “Our troops and veterans have made the ultimate sacrifice for our country. By passing this bill, we are once again proving our commitment to them. This vital legislation provides a critical increase in funds to ensure quality medical care and treatment, and it gives our troops a well-deserved pay increase.” –Congressman Lincoln Diaz-Balart (FL-21)“This legislation addresses many of the concerns the American people face today, and it provides for the needs of our brave men and women in uniform, our veterans and our first responders, as well as our children and our families. It also sets aside funding for the people of Haiti who have been recently devastated by several hurricanes.” –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-21)
09.24.2008	WASHINGTON, DC-Today, in a meeting with President Antonio Saca of El Salvador, President George W. Bush announced that he has extended Temporary Protective Status (TPS) to Salvadorans living in the U.S. Congressmen Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-18) and Lincoln Diaz-Balart (FL-21) made the following statement:“The people of El Salvador have undergone serious natural disasters that have weakened the infrastructure and economy of that nation. This is a step in the right direction to helping an important democratic ally in our region get back on its feet.” –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart“I am pleased that the Administration has extended the Temporary Protected Status (TPS) to Salvadorans as it would be a great injustice if they are returned to their native country at a time when they would cause more harm than good with their arrival. I take this opportunity to ask the Administration to also extend the TPS status for Hondurans and Nicaraguans as they find themselves in a similar dire situation.” –Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen“I applaud President Bush's decision to extend Temporary Protected Status for Salvadorans. The extension of TPS will not only contribute to the economic and political stability of the region, but also continue to enable the people of El Salvador to receive financial assistance from their relatives in the United States.” –Congressman Lincoln Diaz-BalartThe Members of Congress have been calling on the Bush Administration to grant TPS to El Salvador, and other countries including Nicaragua, Honduras and Haiti, for several years. Congresistas Diaz-Balart y Ros-Lehtinen Aplauden Extensión de TPS Para SalvadoreñosWASHINGTON, DC-Hoy, en una reunión con el Presidente de El Salvador Antonio Saca, el Presidente George W. Bush anunció que ha extendido el TPS para los salvadoreños en EE.UU. Los Congresistas Mario Diaz-Balart, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen y Lincoln Diaz-Balart hicieron las siguientes declaraciones:“El pueblo de El Salvador ha sido victima de serios desastres naturales en los últimos años que han debilitado su infraestructura y su economía. Este gesto humanitario es un importante paso hacia la restauración de este país democrático, fuerte aliado en nuestra región.” –Congresista Mario Diaz-Balart“Me complace que la Administración haya extendido la Protección Temporal (TPS) a los salvadoreños ya que seria una gran injusticia que ellos se vieran forzados a regresar a su país donde con su llegada causarían mas daño que beneficio. Quiero pedirle a la administración que extienda también el estatus de TPS a los hondureños y nicaragüenses que se encuentran en una situación similar. –Congresista Ileana Ros-Lehtinen“Aplaudo la decisión del Presidente Bush de extender el TPS para los salvadoreños. La extensión del TPS no solo contribuirá a la estabilidad económica y política de la región, sino que también le seguirá permitiendo al pueblo de El Salvador recibir ayuda económica de sus familiares en Estados Unidos.” –Congresista Lincoln Diaz-BalartPor años, los Miembros del Congreso Estadounidense le han pedido al Presidente Bush que extienda el TPS para El Salvador, al igual que para Nicaragua, Honduras y Haiti.
09.22.2008	WASHINGTON, DC— Today, with the support of Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), the House of Representatives passed H.R. 6853, the Mortgage Fraud Coordinator Act of 2008. Diaz-Balart made the following statement.“This legislation, modeled after a similar idea that emerged in South Florida, comes in what is a critical time for the housing market and the economy,” said Diaz-Balart. “Although much remains to be done, it is a step in the right direction to reducing mortgage fraud in our community and throughout the nation.”Diaz-Balart is a co-sponsor of the Mortgage Fraud Coordinator Act of 2008, introduced by Congressman Kendrick Meek (FL-17), which establishes a Nationwide Mortgage Fraud Coordinator within the Federal Bureau of Investigation. “I thank and applaud Congressman Meek for taking the lead on this important issue and bringing to the floor this bi-partisan and common-sense legislation,” said Diaz-Balart.
09.15.2008	WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) announced that he will host the second annual Academy Day at the Homestead Air Reserve Base on Saturday, October 11th at 8:30 a.m. “Academy Day is a great opportunity for high school students in our community to learn more about what our talented Armed Forces do each day,” said Diaz-Balart. “I encourage any student who has the desire to serve our country, to join us on this day and learn about the opportunities these academies offer.”On this day, representatives from the U.S. Naval, U.S. Air Force, U.S. Military, U.S. Merchant Marine and U.S. Coast Guard Academies will be on site to meet with and inform perspective students about educational and career opportunities at the service academies. High school students interested in applying to a service academy or eager to learn more about serving for the U.S. Military are encouraged to attend. “There is no work more honorable than serving our country. Our men and women in uniform serve selflessly each day to protect our nation and our freedoms, and they truly are our American heroes,” said Diaz-Balart. *All participants must RSVP by Monday, October 6th with Gloria Amor at (305) 225-6866. WHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart and representatives from the U.S. Navy, U.S. Air Force, U.S. Military, U.S. Merchant Marines and U.S. Coast GuardWHAT: 2nd Annual Academy DayWHEN: Saturday, October 11th, 2008 at 8:30 a.m.WHERE: Homestead Air Reserve Base, 29050 Coral Sea Blvd Homestead, Florida 33039RSVP: by Monday, October 6th with Gloria Amor at (305) 225-6866
09.12.2008	MIAMI—Today Congressmen Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) and Congressman Lincoln Diaz-Balart (FL-21) expressed disappointment about the recent actions taken by Latin American leftist leaders Evo Morales and Hugo Chávez. They issued the following statements:“It comes as no surprise that the extreme leftist leaders of Bolivia and Venezuela have taken such irresponsible actions. By expelling the U.S. ambassadors from their countries, those leaders have sent a strong signal that they are working against democracy and that their interests lay not with the people of their countries, but with the terrorists with whom they associate. Chavez and his associates will do anything to shove diplomacy and democracy aside. These actions further reflect their corruption and disdain for freedom.”-Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25)“Chavez is spreading his millions around and asking his lackeys to expel US Ambassadors. Cash influences the corrupt, even in the most condemnable of ways.”-Congressman Lincoln Diaz-Balart (FL-21)Congresistas Critican a Líderes Izquierdistas de America Latina Sobre Acciones Contra EE.UU.MIAMI—Hoy los Congresistas Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) y Lincoln Diaz-Balart (FL-21) expresaron su disgusto con las acciones tomadas por los líderes izquierdistas en America Latina Evo Morales y Hugo Chávez. Hicieron las siguientes declaraciones:“Las acciones irresponsables de los lideres izquierdistas de Bolivia y Venezuela no son sorprendentes. Al expulsar los embajadores Americanos de esos países, esos líderes han mandado una señal clara y directa de que continúan trabajando en contra de la democracia y que sus intereses no representan a sus pueblos, sino a los terroristas con quien se alinean. Chávez y sus fanáticos están dispuestos hacer cualquier cosa por rechazar la diplomacia y la democracia. Estas acciones confirman su corrupción y su desprecio por la democracia.”-Congresista Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25)“Chávez está repartiendo millones y pidiéndole a sus adláteres que expulsen a los embajadores de Estados Unidos. El efectivo tiene gran influencia sobre los corruptos, aún en las formas más condenables.”- Congresista Lincoln Diaz-Balart (FL-21)
09.10.2008	WASHINGTON— Tomorrow Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will take part in the Pentagon Memorial Dedication in Arlington, VA to mark the 7th anniversary of the September 11th attacks. Today he issued the following statement:“Tomorrow I will join my fellow Americans to remember the heroes who so valiantly and courageously perished on September 11, 2001. That terrorist attack, the worst in our history, aimed to destroy our nation, our freedom and our principles, but failed to do so. “Each year, Americans across the nation come together to honor the memory of the victims of the 9/11 tragedy and to show the world that we continue to stand together in defending our freedom and our democracy. “It is important that we never forget those who perished on 9/11 and those who answered the call of duty in the aftermath of tragedy and continue to defend our freedoms each day. Our men and women in uniform are the reason why America continues to be free,” said Diaz-Balart.
09.05.2008	Miami, FL— Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart made the following statement regarding the threat of Hurricane Ike. "As Hurricane Ike strengthens in the Atlantic, I urge residents in our community to secure their homes and make sure they have all essential supplies to keep their families safe. It is vital that we stay informed and take all advisories and evacuation orders seriously. "We cannot take a threat such as this one lightly. We must come together as neighbors and help one another prepare for the possibility of Ike striking Florida. "I have worked together with first responders and leaders in our community to prepare some materials that can be useful as we brace for the storm," said Diaz-Balart. Please take a moment to review these checklists to ensure your family is ready:Hurricane Safety in MiamiHurricane Safety in Miami (Espanol)Hurricane Safety in Collier CountyHurricane Safety in Collier County (Espanol) Additional links:Gas Stations with Generators in Miami-Dade CountyGas Stations with Generators in Collier County Generator Safety Stay updated by The National Hurricane Center
08.26.2008	COLLIER— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart will hold a press conference in Collier County tomorrow, Wednesday, August 27th at 11:30 a.m. to highlight his CARS Act, a bill that will give Collier County commuters a tax deduction on gas expenses. The press conference will be held at the southeast corner of the intersection of I-75 and County Road 951, in the parking lot of the Comfort Inn & Suites. Diaz-Balart introduced the CARS Act, or the Commuter Aid and Relief for Suburbs Act, in Washington, DC in April. It would provide economic tax relief to commuters pinched by high gas prices and long commutes. State Representative Matt Hudson and Collier County Commissioner Jim Coletta will also join Diaz-Balart to discuss the high cost of gas and the current energy crisis in the U.S. WHAT: Press conference to highlight gas prices and the CARS ActWHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart, Representative Matt Hudson and County Commissioner Jim ColettaWHEN: Wednesday, August 27, 2008 at 11:30 a.m.WHERE: Parking Lot of the Comfort Inn & Suites, 3860 Tollgate Boulevard, Naples, FL 34114-Southeast corner of the intersection of I-75 and County Road 951 (Collier Boulevard)
08.22.2008	MIAMI—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) issued a statement following news reports that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services' Office of Inspector General is expected to release a report next week citing a possible manipulation of a 2006 audit by Medicare officials to mislead Congress about how effective the agency has been combating fraud in the medical equipment industry. “If true, this is an outrageous and unforgivable stunt,” Diaz-Balart said. “Cracking down on fraud should be a top priority for Medicare, not fixing numbers to make an agency look better. This is taxpayer money and must be treated with integrity and reverence. I expect hearings and I expect answers -- truthful answers -- from Medicare about this report.”
08.22.2008	MIAMI—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will visit Florida International University’s College of Engineering and Computing on Monday, August 25th at 2:00 p.m. Diaz-Balart will tour the facilities and meet with administration, faculty and students to discuss the university’s advancements and efforts in renewable energy and biofuels, solar energy, transportation, Everglades restoration and hurricane research and development. WHAT: Tour and briefing at FIU’s College of Engineering and Computing WHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart and FIU College of Engineering and Computing Dean Dr. Amir Mirmiran, faculty and students WHEN: Monday, August 25, 2008 at 2:00 p.m. WHERE: FIU Engineering Center, 10555 West Flagler Street, Miami, FL 33174 (at the intersection of 107th Avenue and West Flagler Street)
08.20.2008	COLLIER—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will present a check for $147,000 in federal funds to Collier County for South Immokalee Park Community Center, Thursday, August 21st at 3:00 p.m.“The South Immokalee Park Community Center serves as a safe haven at which our children can learn, play and build relationships,” said Diaz-Balart. “I thank all of the people at the Center and in Collier County who each day dedicate themselves to improving our community and the lives of our children.”The federal funding will be used to support the design, permit and construction of a 3,000 square foot community center building for this neighborhood park. The project is expected to be completed within two years. “The safety and security of our children is a priority of mine and I will continue advocating to bring federal funds into our neighborhoods,” said Diaz-Balart.WHAT: Check Presentation for South Immokalee Park Community CenterWHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart and Collier County OfficialsWHEN: Thursday, August 21, 2008 at 3:00 p.m.WHERE: South Immokalee Park Community Center, 418 School Drive in Immokalee
08.18.2008	MIAMI—Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart issued the following statement regarding Tropical Storm Fay. “As Tropical Storm Fay strengthens in the Florida Straits, I urge residents in our community to secure their homes and make sure that they have all essential supplies to keep their families safe,” said Diaz-Balart. “Although the storm has not yet developed into a hurricane, we cannot take any threats lightly and it is vital that we stay informed and take all advisories and evacuation orders seriously.”
08.15.2008	COLLIER— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart will hold a press conference in Collier County next Wednesday, August 20th at 11:30 a.m. to highlight his CARS Act, a bill that will give Collier County commuters a tax deduction on gas expenses. The press conference will be held at the southeast corner of the intersection of I-75 and County Road 951, in the parking lot of the Comfort Inn & Suites. Diaz-Balart introduced the CARS Act, or the Commuter Aid and Relief for Suburbs Act, in Congress in April. It would provide economic tax relief to commuters pinched by high gas prices and long commutes. State Representative Matt Hudson will also join Diaz-Balart to discuss the high cost of gas and the current energy crisis in the U.S. WHAT: Press conference to highlight gas prices and the CARS ActWHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart and Representative Matt HudsonWHEN: Wednesday, August 20, 2008 at 11:30 a.m.WHERE: Parking Lot of the Comfort Inn & Suites, 3860 Tollgate Boulevard, Naples, FL 34114-Southeast corner of the intersection of I-75 and County Road 951 (Collier Boulevard)
08.15.2008	COLLIER—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will present a check for $147,000 in federal funds to Collier County for South Immokalee Park Community Center, next Thursday, August 21st at 3:00 p.m. “The South Immokalee Park Community Center serves as a safe haven at which our children can learn, play and build relationships,” said Diaz-Balart. “I thank all of the people at the Center and in Collier County who each day dedicate themselves to improving our community and the lives of our children.” The federal funding will be used to support the design, permit and construction of a 3,000 square foot community center building for this neighborhood park. The project is expected to be completed within two years. “The safety and security of our children is a priority of mine and I will continue advocating to bring federal funds into our neighborhoods,” said Diaz-Balart.WHAT: Check Presentation for South Immokalee Park Community CenterWHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart and Collier County OfficialsWHEN: Thursday, August 21, 2008 at 3:00 p.m.WHERE: South Immokalee Park Community Center, 418 School Drive in Immokalee
08.13.2008	MIAMI—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will visit the Community Health of South Dade Doris Ison Health Center tomorrow and read to children as part of the Reach Out and Read Program. “The ability to read is critical to the success of our children,” said Diaz-Balart. “As parents, grandparents and family members, we need to stay involved and committed to helping every child learn to read. I commend everyone involved with the Reach Out and Read program for the work they do to ensure that children across the country have the opportunity to learn and improve their reading skills.”Reach Out and Read is a non-profit organization and literacy program that focuses on at-risk children ages 6 months to 5 years living in poverty. The organization promotes early literacy and distributes new books to children throughout the community and in pediatric waiting rooms. The program also encourages parents to read with their children.WHAT: Reach Out and Read, reading session with childrenWHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-BalartWHEN: Thursday, August 14, 2008 at 11:00 a.m.WHERE: Community Health of South Dade, Doris Ison Health Center, 10300 S.W. 216th St., Miami, FL 33190
08.07.2008	MIAMI— Today Speaker of the House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi is in sunny South Florida promoting her new book, while Americans continue to struggle at the pump. Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) made the following statement: “Speaker Pelosi and her fellow elitists may not care about the price at the pump, but all the Florida families and businesses who are suffering sure do,” Diaz-Balart said. “Instead of promoting her book here in Miami, the speaker of the Democratic Do-Nothing Congress should be working to address the high energy costs hurting Florida families and killing our economy.”According to a Politico article yesterday, Speaker Pelosi refuses to bring any comprehensive energy plan to the House floor for a vote.
08.06.2008	MIAMI—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will join the Office Depot Foundation tomorrow August 6th at 2:00 p.m. for the Backpack Donation Day. The event will be held at the Office Depot Kendall location and more than 6,500 backpacks will be distributed to children, schools and community partners. WHAT: Office Depot Foundation Backpack Donation DayWHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart, Office Depot Foundation officials and other community leadersWHEN: Wednesday, August 6, 2008 at 2:00 p.m.WHERE: Office Depot store located at 8950 SW 137th Avenue in Kendall
07.24.2008	WASHINGTON, DC— This week the House of Representatives passed H.Res.645, a resolution sponsored by Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), honoring the United States Capitol Police force.“I am proud to express my support and appreciation for the Capitol Police, who everyday exhibit honor, courtesy and professionalism,” said Congressman Diaz-Balart. “They confront threats to the security of Members of Congress, staff and the millions who visit everyday, and when necessary have put their lives on the line to ensure everyone’s safety. Their work is honorable and should not go unnoticed.”Today marks the 10th anniversary of the deaths of Officer Jacob Chesnut and Detective John Gibson, who lost their lives protecting the Capitol and the people inside from an armed attack.The resolution highlights and thanks the Capitol Police for the work they do each day in maintaining security around the Capitol Complex for all members of Congress, staff and visitors. The Capitol Police was established by Congress in 1828 and has more than 1,500 officers. To view the Congressman’s remarks on the House floor please visit: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EgTHTLjQNfQ.
07.23.2008	WASHINGTON, DC— Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) once again met with Colombian Defense Minister Juan Manuel Santos and Colombian Ambassador to the U.S. Carolina Barco to discuss the Free Trade Agreement, Plan Colombia and the recent rescue of 15 hostages held by the terrorist group FARC.“The United States Congress must stand in solidarity with President Alvaro Uribe and his democratically elected government,” said Diaz-Balart. “Colombia is our strongest ally in the region and I will continue working to pass a Free Trade Agreement and reinstate the funds that were irresponsibly cut for Plan Colombia. President Uribe and the Colombian Armed Forces are successfully defeating enemies of democracy, like the terrorist group FARC and narco-traffickers, and deserve our support.”SEE PHOTO ATTACHED: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart with Colombian Defense Minister Juan Manuel SantosDiaz-Balart Se Reúne Con Ministro de Defensa Colombiano, Exige Aprobación de Tratado de Libre ComercioWASHINGTON, DC— Hoy en Washington, el Congresista Mario Diaz-Balart (Republicano de Florida) se reunió de nuevo con el Ministro de Defensa de Colombia, Juan Manuel Santos, y la Embajadora del Colombia en Estados Unidos, Carolina Barco, para hablar del Tratado de Libre Comercio, el Plan Colombia y el recién rescate de los 15 rehenes en Colombia.“Ya es hora de que el Congreso de Estados Unidos demuestre su solidaridad con el Presidente Alvaro Uribe y su gobierno democrático,” dijo Diaz-Balart. “Colombia es el mejor amigo y aliado de Estados Unidos en la región y seguiré insistiendo para la aprobación inmediata del Tratado de Libre Comercio, y para reponer los fondos que fueron irresponsablemente recortados para el Plan Colombia. El Presidente Uribe y las Fuerzas Armadas de Colombia están logrando detener a los enemigos de la democracia, como el grupo terrorista FARC y los narco-traficantes, y se merecen nuestro apoyo.”
07.18.2008	COLLIER—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will speak at the Naples Greater Chamber of Commerce Wine and Cheese Series this Monday, July 21st at 5:30 p.m. He will be discussing free trade and the importance of passing a free trade agreement with democratic allies like Colombia. He will also be addressing the nation’s energy crisis and what is being done in Congress to improve the situation. *The event is open to press and Civic and Chamber Members ONLY. For more information please visit the Naples Chamber of Commerce website at www.napleschamber.org or contact Stephanie Cuthbertson at (239) 298-7926. WHAT: Remarks at the Naples Chamber of Commerce Wine and Cheese Speaker SeriesWHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-BalartWHEN: Monday, July 21, 2008 at 5:30 p.m.WHERE: The Chamber Building, 2390 Tamiami Trail N, 2nd floor, Naples, FL
07.18.2008	COLLIER—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will join the Conservancy of Southwest Florida at their annual breakfast to speak on the current energy crisis and what is being done in Congress to address the issue. He will also express his ongoing support for Florida’s natural environment and ecosystem. As the sole Member of Congress who represents the Florida Everglades National Park and the Founder and Co-Chair of the Everglades Caucus, Diaz-Balart has taken the lead in bringing home federal funding for restoration and preservation projects. *The breakfast is by invitation only and will take place on Tuesday, July 22nd at 8:00 a.m. Those interested in attending this event should contact the Conservancy at (239) 403-4209 by Monday afternoon. Press is invited to attend.WHAT: Remarks at the Conservancy of Southwest Florida BreakfastWHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-BalartWHEN: Tuesday, July 22, 2008 at 8:00 a.m.WHERE: Conservancy of Southwest Florida, 1450 Merrihue Drive, Naples, FL 34102
07.03.2008	MIAMI—Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), who introduced a resolution last year condemning the FARC for the kidnappings of Americans, and Fabio Andrade, Colombian-American activist and leader in the South Florida community, expressed their solidarity with the hostages and praised the Colombian government and President Alvaro Uribe for a heroic rescue mission.“The hostages rescued in yesterday’s mission have faced this horrific situation with bravery, and I am glad that today they once again live in freedom. My thoughts and prayers are with them and their families for a safe return home,” said Diaz-Balart. “God Bless Colombia,” says Andrade. “My warmest and best regards for the health of the hostages, and I hope that they use this time in captivity to take a positive role in uniting and finding peace in our country.”“The heroic rescue once again demonstrates that President Alvaro Uribe and the Colombian government are winning the fight against the murderers. They are fighting the FARC and making significant improvements to sustain their unwavering democracy. Colombia is our strongest ally in the region and it is critical that we continue to support President Uribe’s initiatives, including a free trade agreement,” said Diaz-Balart. “Congratulations to our military, because it is time that they receive the recognition they deserve as a professional organization that respects human rights, the rule of law and the right of the Colombian people to search and find our peace,” said Andrade. “The FARC is nothing shy of a dangerous and barbaric terrorist group that should be condemned for its attacks on Americans, Colombians and all who fall victim to their cruelty,” said Diaz-Balart. “We are one step closer to the day in which the FARC can no longer deprive others of their liberty.”“The job is not complete. Much more needs to be done. We have to continue supporting Plan Colombia so we can ensure the rest of the hostages come home safely,” said Andrade. “From the United States, as Colombian-Americans, we will continue to work to secure that the free trade agreement moves forward in Congress.”Last year, Diaz-Balart introduced H.Con.Res. 260, a bi-partisan resolution condemning the terrorist group FARC for the kidnapping of Keith Stansell, Thomas Howes and Marc Gonsalves and the execution of Tom Janis. FARC remains a terrorist group listed on the State Department’s list of Foreign Terrorist Organizations.
07.03.2008	MIAMI— In light of the recent events that have taken place in Colombia, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will host a press conference on Monday, July 7th, 2007 at 11:30 a.m. to discuss Plan Colombia, the Free Trade Agreement with Colombia, and to praise President Alvaro Uribe and the Colombian government for their serious and responsible work. “The heroic rescue once again demonstrates that President Alvaro Uribe and the Colombian government are successfully defeating these enemies of democracy. Their work is serious and responsible and they continue making significant improvements to sustain their unwavering democracy. Colombia is our strongest ally in the region and it is critical that we support Plan Colombia and a Free Trade Agreement with Colombia,” said Diaz-Balart.He will be joined by Fabio Andrade, Colombian-American activist and leader in South Florida. Other leaders, activists and businessmen from the Colombian-American community will also be present. WHAT: Press Conference to discuss Plan Colombia, the Colombian Free Trade Agreement and the recent rescue of American and Colombian hostagesWHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart, Fabio Andrade and other Colombian-American leaders in the South Florida communityWHEN: Monday, July 7, 2008 at 11:30 a.m.WHERE: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart’s office, 12851 SW 42 Street, Suite 131 (2nd floor), Miami, Florida 33175
07.02.2008	WASHINGTON, DC— The U.S. Department of Education announced this week that the State of Florida has been selected as one of six states to participate in their differentiated accountability pilot program. Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) took part in a state-wide, bipartisan effort to urge the Department to select Florida. Today he made the following statement:“It is critical that we focus on improving our schools and ensuring that every student in our state receives a quality education and achieves academic success,” said Diaz-Balart. “By participating in this program Florida schools struggling to meet standards will benefit from comprehensive reforms and specialized assistance.”Florida is one of six states selected from a group of 17, which will take part in this important pilot program designed by the U.S. Department of Education to make improvements to already existing progress measures. For the 2007-2008 school year, 69% of Florida’s schools were identified as schools in need of improvements. The program focuses on helping schools to make necessary changes to meet annual yearly progress.
06.27.2008	MIAMI— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will join Pastor Jimmie L. Williams, III at the Greater New Mount Zion Church in Homestead on Tuesday, July 1st at 7:00 p.m. to discuss issues important to our community. He will give remarks on the Keep Our Homes Act and the Commuter Aid Relief for Suburbs Act, legislation Diaz-Balart recently introduced in Congress, and take questions from residents. WHAT: Town Hall MeetingWHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart and Pastor Jimmie L. Williams, IIIWHEN: Tuesday, July 1st at 7:00 p.m.WHERE: Greater New Mount Zion Church, 890 SW 4th Street, Homestead, FL
06.27.2008	MIAMI—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will present a check for $294,000 in federal funds to the Town of Miami Lakes Transit Program this Thursday, July 3rd, 2008 at 11:30 a.m. WHAT: Check Presentation for the Miami Lakes Transit ProgramWHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart and Town of Miami Lakes officialsWHEN: Thursday, July 3, 2008 at 11:30 a.m.WHERE: Miami Lakes Town Hall, 15700 NW 67th Avenue, Miami Lakes, Florida 33014
06.26.2008	WASHINGTON, DC— As the only Florida Member to serve on the House Science and Technology Committee, hurricane research and development remains a top priority for Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL). Today he took part in a joint hearing about The National Hurricane Research Initiative Act, of which he is an original cosponsor. “With more than 50 percent of the American population living within 50 miles of the coastline, it is imperative that we have the tools and information necessary to minimize loss of life and economic destruction caused by hurricanes,” said Diaz-Balart. “The question is not whether we will be hit by another storm, but when. Even though we have made tremendous progress, we must do a better job of understanding and predicting hurricane intensity, size, storm surge and flooding.”Diaz-Balart also introduced panelist Dr. Stephen P. Leatherman who has served as Chair and Director of Florida International University’s International Hurricane Research Center for more than 10 years. Dr. Leatherman is an expert on the impacts storms have on coastal areas, and he is also known as Dr. Beach, for selecting the annual Top 10 beaches, of which Florida is home to three.
06.25.2008	MIAMI— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), along with the Friends of the Congressional Glaucoma Caucus Foundation (FCGCF), will host a free Glaucoma screening in Hialeah Gardens on June 30th. The site will be equipped with a mobile eye screening van where individuals can receive Glaucoma screenings free of charge. The FCGCF works with Bascom Palmer Eye Institute and other local clinics to provide free treatment to those who are diagnosed with Glaucoma. The first screening was held last week at the College Park Senior Center in West Kendall (see photo attached).To receive a free Glaucoma screening, please join Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart at: Hollingsworth–Hialeah Gardens Senior Center10003 NW 87th AvenueHialeah Gardens, Fl, 33016on Monday June 30, 2008 from 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.
06.24.2008	WASHINGTON, DC – Today Congressmen Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-FL) explained their vote in opposition to H.R. 6346, stating the legislation would result in the double gouging of Florida residents.“We strongly support anti-price gouging legislation and have voted (May 3, 2006 -- HR 5253) to give the Federal Trade Commission the power to regulate, prosecute and sanction gougers. Under HR 5253, the fines imposed would then have been reimbursed to the states and communities where the gouging took place. However, under the legislation brought to the floor of the House by the Democratic Leadership today (HR 6346), fines imposed in South Florida would instead be redirected to northern and Midwestern states. We will not support the double gouging of Floridians, which is exactly what HR 6346 calls for,” remarked the Congressmen.Miembros del Congreso Explican Voto Respecto a H.R. 6346Legislación resultaría en una doble estafa de nuestra comunidadWASHINGTON, DC – Los Congresistas Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) y Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-FL) explicaron sus votos hoy en contra de la legislación H.R. 6346, declarando que su aprobación constituiría una doble estafa de nuestra comunidad.“Nosotros apoyamos fuertemente legislación en contra de la estafa a los consumidores de gasolina, y votamos (el 3 de mayo de 2006 – HR 5253) para autorizar a la Comisión Federal de Comercio a regular, encausar, y sancionar a los estafadores. Bajo la legislación HR 5253, las penalidades impuestas a los estafadores serian reembolsadas a los estados y a las comunidades donde las estafas tomaron lugar. Desafortunadamente, bajo la legislación llevada hoy ante el pleno de la Cámara por el Liderazgo Demócrata (HR 6346), las multas impuestas en el Sur de la Florida serian utilizadas para subsidiar a los estados del norte de Estados Unidos. Nosotros no apoyaremos una doble estafa de los residentes de la Florida, que es exactamente lo que haría la HR 6346,” comentaron los Congresistas.
06.20.2008	MIAMI— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), along with the Friends of the Congressional Glaucoma Caucus Foundation (FCGCF), will host free Glaucoma screenings in Miami on June 23rd and June 30th. Each site will have a mobile eye screening van where individuals can receive Glaucoma screenings free of charge. The FCGCF works with Bascom Palmer Eye Institute and other local clinics to provide free treatment to those who are diagnosed with Glaucoma. To receive a free Glaucoma screening, please join Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart at either of these two locations:College Park Senior Center10700 SW 109 CourtMiami, FL 33176on Monday, June 23, 2008 from 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.“Hollingsworth” –Hialeah Gardens Senior Center10003 NW 87th AvenueHialeah Gardens, Fl, 33016on Monday June 30, 2008 from 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.
06.20.2008	WASHINGTON, DC—Today the State of Florida announced that the unemployment rate is now at 5.5%, equal to the national rate. This week, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) voted to extend unemployment insurance for 13 weeks in all states. He expressed his concern and issued the following statement:“While America faces a serious energy crisis that is affecting the economy and people’s pocketbooks, Democratic leadership continues to raise taxes on those struggling to make a living and provide for their families.“These numbers demonstrate the urgency to lower taxes and gas prices. “It is time for Democratic leadership in Congress to start paying attention to what really matters. Rather than raising taxes on American families, we need to take action now to lower gas prices at the pump by pursuing alternative and domestic sources of energy,” said Diaz-Balart.This year, Diaz-Balart introduced the Commuter Aid and Relief for Suburbs Act or CARS Act, a bill that will enable commuters to write off commuting expenses from their taxes and provide immediate economic relief to those affected by the high prices of gasoline.
06.12.2008	For Immediate Release:June 12, 2008Contact:Adriana Pereira (MDB) 202-225-2778Debbie Wight (County) 239-252-8383Diaz-Balart to Present $323,911 to Collier County for Physicians Led Access NetworkCOLLIER—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will present a check for $323,911 in federal funds to Collier County for the Physicians Led Access Network, known as PLAN, this Monday, June 16th, 2008 at 11:00 a.m. The federal funding will be used to support and further develop a health care access network for approximately 35,000 residents in Collier County who lack quality health care, are underinsured or uninsured. PLAN also seeks to expand, organize, and develop a full access program with a full continuum of services for these residents in need. WHAT: Check Presentation for PLANWHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart and Collier County OfficialsWHEN: Monday, June 16, 2008 at 11:00 a.m.WHERE: Anchor Health Center, Edison Village, 8360 Sierra Meadows Boulevard, across from the Physicians Regional Medical Center in Collier
06.02.2008	COLLIER—Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) delivered the keynote address and welcomed 100 new U.S. Citizens at the first ever naturalization ceremony in Naples at the Collier Campus of Edison Community College.“This America, our America, truly is a nation of immigrants, built by immigrants,” said Diaz-Balart in his keynote address. “Here in Florida, we know well the invaluable contributions immigrants make to this nation everyday. Immigrants have always exhibited the bedrock values this nation holds dear: faith, family, liberty and hard work.”Upon Diaz-Balart’s request, U.S. Citizen and Immigration Services hosted a naturalization ceremony in Naples, Florida. U.S. Residents becoming Citizens traditionally had to travel to Miami Beach in order to participate in the swearing-in and naturalization ceremonies. This year, Diaz-Balart was able to coordinate with USCIS and bring this important event closer to home for the first time. At this morning’s ceremony, 100 individuals from 16 different countries, including Haiti, Poland, and Colombia, became U.S. Citizens.
05.29.2008	COLLIER—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will celebrate the first ever Naturalization Ceremony in Naples on Monday, June 2nd at 10:00 a.m. at the Collier Campus of Edison Community College. Upon Diaz-Balart’s request, U.S. Citizen and Immigration Services will host a naturalization ceremony in Naples, Florida for the first time. U.S. Residents becoming Citizens traditionally had to travel to Miami Beach in order to participate in the swearing-in and naturalization ceremonies. This year, Diaz-Balart was able to coordinate with CIS and bring this important event closer to home. WHAT: First ever Naturalization Ceremony in Naples, FloridaWHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart and CIS officialsWHEN: Monday, June 2nd at 10:00 a.m. WHERE: Collier Campus of Edison Community College, 7007 Lely Cultural Pkwy Naples, FL 34113
05.20.2008	WASHINGTON, DC— Today Congressmen Mario Diaz-Balart, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Chris Smith and Lincoln Diaz-Balart commemorated Cuban Independence Day and showed their support for Cuban Solidarity Day on May 21st. “Today is a day to honor Cuba’s heroes, the political prisoners and the pro-democracy activists who so valiantly risk their lives each day in the struggle against oppression and who will one day lead a free Cuba. As we celebrate Cuban Solidarity Day, I urge everyone who lives in democracy and freedom to stand with the people of Cuba as they continue to heroically fight for the democracy they deserve.” –Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25)“Many talk about these supposed changes under the dictator Raul Castro, but the reality in Cuba is still the same: the Castro brothers continue oppressing the Cuban people as top regime officials live like millionaire capitalists and the rest of the population goes hungry. This May 20th we will continue working so that the Cuban people can enjoy the same liberties that the rest of the world does.” –Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-18)“This is an important opportunity to stand with the Cuban people -- the prisoners of conscience in the jails, as well as the people living in Cuban society who are deprived of basic liberties every day. On this day of solidarity with the Cuban people, let us remember Oscar Biscet, the doctor and human rights activist who has spent most of the last eight years in jail. This peace-loving defender of the defenseless has become a symbol of the Cuban regime’s cruelty. Let us never give up hope that we will one day see Biscet, his fellow prisoners of conscience, and all the Cuban people living in freedom.” –Congressman Chris Smith (NJ-04)“May 20, 1902 was the culmination of a century of struggle for Cuba's independence, the day the Republic was founded. Unfortunately the Cuban people's sovereignty has been kidnapped for 49 years. The half century of totalitarian nightmare will soon come to an end, however, due to the heroism of the Cuban people. Today we remember and honor that heroism.” –Congressman Lincoln Diaz-Balart (FL-21) Congresistas se unen en solidaridad con el pueblo cubano WASHINGTON, DC—Hoy los Congresistas Mario Diaz-Balart, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Chris Smith y Lincoln Diaz-Balart conmemoraron el día de la independencia cubana e hicieron a conocer su apoyo por el día de solidaridad con Cuba, que se llevara a cabo el 21 de mayo. “Hoy honramos a los héroes de Cuba, los presos políticos y la oposición interna que valientemente arriesgan sus vidas cada día luchando por la libertad. Ellos son los futuros líderes de Cuba. En este día internacional de solidaridad con Cuba, le pido a todos aquellos que disfrutan de la democracia y la libertad, apoyen al esclavizado pueblo Cubano, que después de casi medio siglo sigue luchando por la democracia que tanto merece.” –Congresista Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25)“Muchos hablan de los supuestos cambios bajo el dictador Raul Castro, pero la realidad continua igual: los hermanos Castro continúan oprimiendo y abusando del pueblo cubano y mientras los dirigentes en la cúpula del poder viven como capitalistas millonarios, el pueblo pasa hambre. Este 20 de mayo continuamos trabajando como nunca para que el pueblo cubano disfrute de las mismas libertades que el resto del mundo.” –Congresista Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-18)“Esta es una oportunidad excepcional para apoyar al pueblo cubano. Los presos de conciencia están en las cárceles y en general todo el pueblo está privado de sus libertades fundamentales. En este día de solidaridad con Cuba, tenemos que recordar al Dr. Oscar Elias Biscet, médico y activista de los derechos humanos que ha pasado más de ocho años en la cárcel. Este defensor pacífico de los indefensos se ha convertido en un símbolo de la crueldad del régimen. Nunca perderemos la esperanza de que un día Biscet, sus compañeros de prisión y todo el pueblo cubano pueda vivir en libertad.” –Congresista Chris Smith (NJ-04)“El 20 de mayo de 1902 fue la culminación de la lucha por la independencia de Cuba, el día en que la República fue fundada. Lamentablemente la soberanía del pueblo cubano ha estado secuestrada durante 49 años. Sin embargo, la mitad de siglo de pesadilla totalitaria pronto verá su fin gracias al heroísmo del pueblo cubano. Hoy recordamos y honramos ese heroísmo y ese noble pueblo.” –Congresista Lincoln Diaz-Balart (FL-21)
05.16.2008	MIAMI—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will participate in a fly-over of the Mustang Corner Fire in the Florida Everglades with Superintendent Dan Kimball of Everglades National Park tomorrow, Saturday, May 17th at 4:00 p.m. *Media availability immediately before takeoff at airport entrance. Diaz-Balart is the sole Member of Congress representing Everglades National Park and the Co-Chair of the Everglades Caucus. He is the lead Congressman advocating for Everglades restoration and conservation funding and has successfully secured more than $300 million in funding for the Everglades to date.WHAT: Fly Over of Mustang Corner Fire in the Florida EvergladesWHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart and Dan Kimball, Superintendent of Everglades National ParkWHEN: Saturday, May 17, 2008 *Takeoff scheduled for 4:00 p.m./Media availability immediately before takeoff at airport entrance WHERE: Homestead General Aviation Airport, 28700 SW 217th Avenue, Homestead, Florida/Media availability will take place at airport entrance
05.15.2008	MIAMI—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, will participate in the LeJeune Road re-opening ceremony this Friday, May 16, 2008 at 11:00 a.m. He will join officials from the State of Florida, Miami-Dade County and the City of Miami to commemorate the newly improved LeJeune Road and the Miami Intermodal Center at Miami International Airport. WHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart and State and Local officials WHAT: LeJeune Road Re-Opening Ribbon Cutting CeremonyWHEN: Friday, May 16, 2008 *Event access opens at 9:30 a.m. and ends at 10:30 a.m./The ceremony beings promptly at 11:00 a.m.WHERE: LeJeune Road Southbound, on the on-ramp to westbound SR 836 *Parking is available on the ramp
05.14.2008	MIAMI— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will join Angel Aloma, Executive Director of Food for the Poor, at Coral Reef Senior High School next Monday, May 19th at 10:00 a.m. for a ceremony in honor of The Haitian Relief Project, the school’s drive for victims of food shortages in Haiti. The project is headed by Stephany Giraldo-Henao, a junior at Coral Reef Senior High. “We all know of the terrible food shortages people in Haiti are facing right now. Stephany wanted to do something to help them and took it upon herself to start this important project. I am impressed by her drive and initiative,” said Diaz-Balart. “I am very happy to help Stephany and applaud the help she has received from her classmates and teachers at Coral Reef Senior High. I thank Food For The Poor for offering to help in transporting the goods so that the people of Haiti can benefit from this relief as soon as possible.” The Haitian Relief Project began as a class project at Coral Reef Senior High in response to the food shortage and poverty crisis in Haiti. Giraldo-Henao decided to take it once step further and turned it into a school-wide event. Among those in the community involved is Food For The Poor, who has committed to transporting the goods to Haiti. “Many students believe that they can not make a difference and that their voices will not be heard, but I am glad to say that we have proven them wrong,” said Giraldo-Henao. “We can make a difference; when we set our minds and our hearts on a goal we can achieve it no matter how impossible it may seem. I am hoping that this effort will open the eyes of the community to the problems our world is faced with and let them know that they can achieve anything.” “The terrible food shortages in Haiti desperately need the attention of the American public,” said Aloma. “Even before the current food crisis, many children in Haiti were extremely malnourished, and were forced to quell their hunger pains with mud cookies. Students at Coral Reef Senior High School, through their generosity and desire to learn have brought awareness of the on-going crisis to the South Florida community. Food For The Poor commends the efforts of the students, faculty, and the support they received from Congressman Diaz-Balart.”WHO: Congressmen Mario Diaz-Balart, Angel Aloma of Food For The Poor Angel Aloma, Stephany Giraldo-Henao and other students, faculty and staff of Coral Reef Senior High SchoolWHAT: Ceremony to honor Coral Reef Senior High School’s The Haitian Relief Project and discussion of the food shortage and poverty crisis in HaitiWHEN: Monday, May 19, 2008 at 10:00 a.m.WHERE: Coral Reef Senior High School Auditorium, 10101 SW 152nd Street, Miami, FL 33157
05.14.2008	WASHINGTON, DC— Today the House of Representatives passed the 2008 Farm Bill Conference Report. Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) is a strong supporter of this Farm Bill and made the following statement: “For the first time, Congress was able to pass a Farm Bill that benefits the unique Agriculture needs of Florida,” said Diaz-Balart. “This is one piece of legislation that will have a direct impact in our community, especially in areas like Homestead and Immokalee. Nursery growers and fruit and vegetable farmers will see substantial benefits.” Diaz-Balart was a member of the Farm Bill Working Group, along with Congressmen Adam Putnam and Allen Boyd of Florida, which helped gather consensus among Florida’s diverse agricultural sectors for Farm Bill priorities. For the first time, approximately $3 billion will be invested in specialty crops, pest and disease research, marketing promotion, nutrition programs, and conservation priorities. Florida is home to more than 250 specialty crops grown throughout the state, many of which are produced in Florida’s 25th District. “I am grateful that the various agricultural sectors in Florida came together with a unified voice to support this bill and that Congress was able to pass it.”
05.02.2008	MIAMI— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart, along with Congressman Lincoln Diaz-Balart, will receive the Jose Matias Delgado national order from President Elías Antonio Saca of El Salvador tomorrow Saturday, May 3rd at 11:00 a.m. at the Brickell Room of the Biltmore Conference Center at the Biltmore Hotel in Coral Gables, Florida. The Jose Mathias Delgado national order is the highest distinction given by the Government of El Salvador. *For security reasons, press must arrive no later than 10:00 a.m. and must RSVP by Friday, May 2nd at 5:00 p.m.WHO: Congressmen Mario Diaz-Balart, Lincoln Diaz-Balart and President Elías Antonio Saca of El SalvadorWHAT: Ceremony to honor Congressmen with Jose Matias Delgado national orderWHEN: Saturday, May 3, 2008 at 11:00 a.m. *For security reasons, press must arrive no later than 10:00 a.m. and must RSVP by Friday, May 2nd at 5:00 p.m.WHERE: Brickell Room of the Biltmore Conference Center at the Biltmore Hotel, 1200 Anastasia Avenue, Coral Gables, Florida 33134 Congresistas Diaz-Balart Recibirán Condecoración “Jose Matías Delgado”La Orden Nacional Jose Matías Delgado es la máxima distinción que confiere el Gobierno Salvadoreño MIAMI—Los Congresistas del Sur de Florida, Mario Diaz-Balart y Lincoln Diaz-Balart, recibirán la condecoración Jose Mathias Delgado que ha decidido otorgarles el Presidente Elías Antonio Saca de El Salvador. La ceremonia será mañana sábado 3 de mayo a las 11:00 a.m. en el Hotel Biltmore en Coral Gables. *Por razones relacionadas con la seguridad, la prensa debe llegar a las 10:00 a.m. y tiene que confirmar su asistencia hoy viernes, 2 de mayo. QUIEN: Congresistas Mario Diaz-Balart, Lincoln Diaz-Balart y el Presidente de El Salvador, Elias Antonio SacaQUE: Ceremonia de entrega de la Condecoración Jose Matias DelgadoCUANDO: Sábado, 3 de mayo de 2008 a las 11:00 a.m. *Por razones relacionadas con la seguridad, la prensa debe llegar a las 10:00 a.m. y tiene que confirmar su presencia hoy viernes, 2 de mayo.DONDE: Salón de Conferencia “Brickell Room” del Hotel Biltmore, 1200 Anastasia Avenue, Coral Gables, Florida 33134
04.25.2008	MIAMI— Congressmen Mario Diaz-Balart, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Lincoln Diaz-Balart will hold a press conference in Miami today Monday, April 28th at 1:30 p.m. to introduce the CARS Act, a bill that will give commuters a tax deduction on gas expenses. The press conference will be held at the Chevron gas station located on the corner of 87th Avenue and 25th Street, NW in Doral.The CARS Act, or the Commuter Aid and Relief for Suburbs Act, was introduced Thursday by Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart in Washington, DC. It would provide economic tax relief to commuters pinched by high gas prices and long commutes. Congressmen Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Lincoln Diaz-Balart are original cosponsors of this legislation. WHAT: Press Conference to Introduce the CARS ActWHO: Congressmen Mario Diaz-Balart, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Lincoln Diaz-BalartWHEN: TODAY Monday, April 28, 2008 at 1:30 p.m.WHERE: Chevron Gas Station, 87th Avenue and 25th Street, NW in Doral Congresistas del Sur de Florida Denuncian Altos Precios de Gasolina y Presentan Legislación en el CongresoMIAMI—Los Congresistas del Sur de Florida, Mario Diaz-Balart, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen y Lincoln Diaz-Balart llevarán a cabo una rueda de prensa hoy para denunciar los altos precios de la gasolina y presentar la legislación “CARS Act,” que reduce los impuestos a esas personas que conducen altos millajes y gastan gran cantidad de gasolina. La rueda de prensa se llevará a cabo hoy, lunes 28 de abril en la gasolinera Chevron en la 87 avenida y la 25 calle del NW en Doral a la 1:30 p.m. La legislación “CARS Act” o Commuter Aid and Relief for Suburbs Act, fue creada por Mario Diaz-Balart para darle un alivio económico a las personas mas afectadas por los altos precios de la gasolina y a aquellos que acumulan altos millajes en sus carros. Los Congresistas Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Lincoln Diaz-Balart son patrocinadores de la legislación. QUE: Rueda de Prensa sobre los precios de la gasolina y para presentar la legislación “CARS Act”QUIEN: Congresistas Mario Diaz-Balart, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen y Lincoln Diaz-Balart OficinaCUANDO: HOY Lunes, 28 de abril de 2008 a las 1:30 p.m.DONDE: Gasolinera Chevron en la 87 avenida y la 25 calle del NW en Doral
04.22.2008	COLLIER—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will present a check for $352,500 to the new Collier County Emergency Services Center this Friday, April 25th, 2008 at 11:00 a.m. Diaz-Balart, along with Congressman Connie Mack, secured the federal funds this year. “This funding is vital to the safety of Collier County residents and their families,” said Diaz-Balart. “With these funds County officials will ensure that the Emergency Services Center is equipped with the most up-to-date technology, which will enable staff to provide high quality service and keep residents safe if a natural disaster were to occur.” The federal funding will be used to support the acquisition of public safety equipment and communications technology for the new Emergency Services Center, which is under construction and expected to open in the spring of 2009. “I am looking forward to this opportunity to show our appreciation in person to Congressman Diaz-Balart,” said Commission Chairman Tom Henning. “His advocacy on behalf of the citizens of Collier County proves the strong partnership we have developed, and continue to cultivate as we strive to address the needs of our common constituencies.”WHAT: Check PresentationWHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart and Collier County OfficialsWHEN: Friday, April 25, 2008 at 11:00 a.m.WHERE: Collier County Emergency Services Center, 8075 Lely Cultural Pkwy, Naples, FL 34113 *Please note this is a construction site.
04.22.2008	WASHINGTON, DC— Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) announced that Miami-Dade County was awarded $552,500.00 for the Kendall-Tamiami Executive Airport Runway Extension Project. “The Kendall-Tamiami Airport is an integral part of our community’s economy, as it continues to provide a much needed service to many,” said Diaz-Balart. "These funds are vital for the improvement of this Airport so that it may continue to expand its services and create more jobs in our community.”The grant, awarded by the U.S. Department of Transportation, provides federal funding for a construction project to extend the existing runway to provide necessary takeoff length. “I will continue supporting Miami-Dade County in this endeavor and will advocate to obtain federal funds for the completion of the project.”
04.16.2008	WASHINGTON, DC— Today Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) secured a legislative victory against the Iranian Terrorist Regime by presenting a motion to recommit on the House floor that prevents countries that have business relationships with Iran from being considered under the Jubilee Act for Responsible Lending and Expanded Debt Cancellation of 2008, H.R. 2634. “Iran continues to be one of the most dangerous regimes in the world and it is not unreasonable to expect that countries that choose to participate in our debt relief program should shed any economic ties they have to this regime,” said Diaz-Balart. The motion was adopted in the House of Representatives by an overwhelming majority of 291 to 130.“The U.S. is generous in how it treats those countries that owe us debt, but we are also extremely concerned about dangerous terrorist regimes like the one in Iran,” said Diaz-Balart. To view Diaz-Balart’s floor debate on this issue visit: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L0rnp1gK450.
04.16.2008	MIAMI— Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will host Guarding Our Children Against Internet Predators next Monday, April 21st at 7:00 p.m. at the City of Homestead Council Chambers located at 790 N. Homestead Boulevard. Officials from the Miami-Dade Police Department will give a presentation on child internet safety. “We have seen and read the disgusting horror stories about pedophiles who seek out children online, yet many parents do not know what steps they can take to protect their families,” said Diaz-Balart. “I am hosting this forum in an effort to create awareness throughout our community and keep our children safe from these vile predators.”This forum is part of Diaz-Balart’s Protecting Our Families Online initiative launched last year to help parents and families protect themselves against online predators and ID theft. Registration is free and open to the public.WHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart, Miami-Dade Police Department and the City of Homestead Council WHAT: Child Internet Safety Presentation and ForumWHEN: Monday, April 21, 2008 at 7:00 p.m.WHERE: City of Homestead Council Chambers at City Hall, 790 N. Homestead Boulevard, Homestead, Florida
04.09.2008	COLLIER—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will present a check for $1.5 million to Florida Gulf Coast University this Friday, April 11, 2008 at 1:00 p.m. for the Dual Use Technologies for Bio-defense project. This is the third time that Diaz-Balart has secured federal funds for this worthwhile project. “I am proud to continue supporting Florida Gulf Coast University in their vital research for the safety of our troops abroad and Americans here at home,” said Diaz-Balart. “I look forward to joining President Bradshaw at Florida Gulf Coast to recognize the efforts of the team of experts that lead this research project.” Diaz-Balart will be joined by Dr. Wilson G. Bradshaw, president of Florida Gulf Coast University, Dr. Thomas Roberts, associate vice president of research, and Drs. Sharon Isern, Scott Michael and Jose Barreto, professors in the College of Arts and Sciences. The Dual Use Technologies for Bio-defense project focuses on state-of-the-art research on technologies to treat bio-threat agents and develop methods of bio-defense for combat and civilian use. WHAT: Check PresentationWHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart, Dr. Wilson G. Bradshaw, President of FGCU and other university officialsWHEN: Friday, April 11, 2008 at 1:00 p.m.WHERE: Florida Gulf Coast University, 10501 FGCU Boulevard South, Building AB5 Room 309, Ft. Myers, FL 33965*Please note: Academic Building V is adjacent to Parking Lot 2. From Ben Hill Griffin Parkway, take FGCU Boulevard, which is the main entrance to the campus. Turn left at the stop sign, and right onto the first parking lot.For further directions, a campus map is available for viewing at https://www.fgcu.edu/tour/vtour/campusmap.htm.
04.04.2008	WASHINGTON, DC—In a Statement for the Congressional Record, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) applauded Col. Brodes Hartley, Jr. for his work in helping provide quality health care to nearly 40,000 patients.“Quality health care is such an important issue for our community, and Col. Hartley has made providing quality care his top priority,” said Diaz-Balart. “He developed the “Patient Care Comes First” motto and is committed to ensuring that his organization truly values patients’ interests more than the organization. His steadfast commitment to patients will help shape the next generation in healthcare providers.”Text of Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart’s statement for the Congressional Record on March 11:Madam Speaker, I rise today to acknowledge the work and accomplishments of a distinguished community leader and true humanitarian, Brodes H. Hartley, Jr. For over two decades Mr. Hartley has done an outstanding job maintaining a high level of care to the nearly 40,000 patients of Community Health of South Dade, Inc. The “Patient Care Comes First” motto he developed, demonstrates that he puts patient’s interest above those of the organization, creating an environment in which those in need receive the best possible care. His willingness to take time for concerned patients, as well as to help shape the next generation in healthcare providers, through mentoring, has established him as a community leader.Brodes H. Hartley, Jr. has accomplished the goal he set out from the beginning, to deliver safe, compassionate, accessible and culturally competent quality health care service to the people of South Florida. I am very grateful for his contribution to our community and honored to call him my friend. Diaz-Balart honra al Col. Brodes H. Hartley, Jr. por su labor comunitariaWASHINGTON, DC—El Congresista Mario Diaz-Balart, en una presentación especial ante el Pleno de la Cámara de Representantes, destacó la labor comunitaria del Col. Brodes H. Hartley, Jr. por brindar servicios médicos de alta calidad a mas de 40,000 pacientes.“La calidad de la atención médica es un asunto de gran importancia para nuestra comunidad y el Col. Hartley ha convertido este tema en una de sus prioridades,” dijo Diaz-Balart. “El Col. Hartley creó el siguiente lema: “El cuidado del paciente es lo primero” y su objetivo es asegurar que su organización sirva verdaderamente a los intereses de los pacientes y formar una nueva generación de proveedores de servicios médicos.”Texto de la declaración del Congresista Mario Diaz-Balart para el Congressional Record, Marzo 11, 2008:Señora Presidenta de la Cámara de Representantes, he pedido la palabra hoy para reconocer el trabajo y los resultados obtenidos por un distinguido líder comunitario y un gran ser humano, Brodes H. Hartley, Jr. Por más de dos décadas Mr. Hartley, Jr. ha realizado una labor excelente para mantener los servicios médicos que brinda la Comunidad Médica de South Dade, Inc, en un alto nivel.El Col. Hartley creó el lema “El cuidado del paciente es lo primero” y se ha comprometido en asegurar que los intereses de los pacientes estén por encima de los de su organización, creando un ambiente en el cual todos reciben la mejor atención posible. Su motivación es dedicarle tiempo a las preocupaciones de los pacientes y preparar una nueva generación de proveedores de servicios médicos. Su labor lo ha convertido en un líder comunitario.Brodes H. Hartley, Jr. ha logrado su meta: brindarle a las personas del Sur de Florida un servicio médico seguro, compasivo, accesible y competente. Estoy muy agradecido por su contribución a nuestra comunidad y me honra ser su amigo.
03.07.2008	Diaz-Balart Invites Community to Participate in Tax Fair, File Tax Returns For FreeMIAMI—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will host the second annual Tax Fair in collaboration with the IRS Miami Office and the Taxpayer Advocate Service this Saturday, March 8th at G. Holmes Braddock High School from 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. Braddock is home to an IRS Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) Center and qualified volunteers will be on site to assist participants in preparing and filing their 2007 tax returns, free of charge, using the IRS E-File service. Participants will also be able to obtain information regarding the Earned Income Tax Credit, the Child Tax Credit and the economic stimulus package and inquire about eligibility to receive the stimulus rebate later this year. “This is a great opportunity for families to file their tax returns free of charge and in time for the fast approaching April 15 deadline. It is my priority to ensure that hard-working families keep more of their income, and I am sponsoring this event so that those who need guidance or assistance in filing their tax returns have it available,” said Diaz-Balart. WHAT: Tax FairWHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart, the IRS Miami Office and the Taxpayer Advocate ServiceWHEN: Saturday, March 8, 2008 from 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.WHERE: G. Holmes Braddock Senior High School VITA Center, 3601 SW 147th Ave, Room K218, Miami, FLDiaz-Balart Patrocina Sesión de Declaración de Impuestos GratuitaMIAMI—El Congresista Mario Diaz-Balart (Republicano de Florida) anunció hoy que llevará a cabo una jornada de declaración de impuestos en colaboración con la oficina del IRS en Miami y el Taxpayer Advocate Service. El evento se llevará a cabo el sábado 8 de marzo en la escuela secundaria G. Holmes Braddock. Varios voluntarios certificados por el IRS estarán disponibles para ayudar a los participantes a llenar sus declaraciones de impuestos gratuitamente, a través del sistema del IRS en la Internet. También habrá información disponible sobre el crédito por ingreso, el crédito por niño y el estímulo económico recién aprobado por el Congreso. “Esta es una gran oportunidad para que las familias hagan su declaración de impuestos en tiempo y gratuitamente. Una de mis prioridades en el Congreso ha sido asegurar que las familias puedan disponer del dinero que ganan con grandes esfuerzos. Es por eso que cada año organizo eventos como éste en los que se llenan las planillas y se orienta a nuestra comunidad. . Este año, adicionalmente, estamos brindando asistencia gratuita para que las personas sepan si califican para el estímulo económico que recientemente aprobó el Congreso,” dijo el Congresista Mario Diaz-Balart.QUE: Jornada de Declaración de Impuestos (Preparación de los Taxes)QUIEN: Congresista Mario Diaz-Balart, Oficina del IRS en Miami y el Taxpayer Advocate ServiceCUANDO: Sábado, 8 de marzo de 2008 a las 10:00 a.m.DONDE: G. Holmes Braddock High School, VITA Center, 3601 SW 147th Ave, Room K218, Miami, FL
03.05.2008	WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), a member of the House Budget Committee, issued the following statement about the Democrat FY09 Budget Proposal:“It comes as no surprise that the Democratic budget is nothing more than a massive tax increase and a burden on America’s hard-working families,” said Diaz-Balart. “The budget brings with it a $683 billion tax hike and proves yet again that Democratic leadership is committed to raising taxes. Congress should be committed to helping America’s hard-working families not burdening them with tax increases,” said Diaz-Balart. What’s in the budget for America’s families?A $2,100 tax increase for a family of four earning $50,000 a yearA $3,000 tax increase for 48 million married couplesMore than a $1,000 tax increase for 12 million single mothersA $2,000 tax increase for 18 million seniorsA $4,000 tax increase for 27 million small business owners To access video footage of Congressman Diaz-Balart’s remarks at today’s Budget hearing please visit his website at: https://www.mariodiazbalart.house.gov/
03.04.2008	Washington, DC – The United States House of Representatives unanimously passed H.Res.845, a resolution today honoring the 60th anniversary of Everglades National Park, introduced by U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) and Mario Diaz- Balart (R-Miami, Collier). Representatives Hastings and Diaz-Balart are the bipartisan co-Chairs of the House Everglades Caucus.“Today Congress recognizes the anniversary of the Everglades National Park and rededicates itself to restoration efforts of this pristine ecosystem. As we pause to celebrate this significant anniversary, we must intensify our efforts to restore and conserve the River of Grass for all future generations of Americans to enjoy,” said Representative Hastings. “As Co-Chair of the Everglades Caucus, I will continue to lead bipartisan efforts in Congress to support the Everglades and get the necessary funds for critical authorized projects. I appreciate Representative Diaz-Balart’s support of the Everglades and his commitment to working together to preserve and restore this magnificent ecosystem.”“Today Congress has demonstrated its commitment to the preservation and restoration of Everglades National Park. As the sole Member of Congress representing Everglades National Park and as co-chair of the Everglades Caucus, creating awareness and ensuring conservation of this national treasure have always been a priority of mine,” said Representative Diaz-Balart. “I join Representative Hastings in thanking our colleagues in the House for supporting this important bipartisan effort and recognizing the importance of the Florida Everglades.”In 2000, the Federal government and the State of Florida embarked on the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan (CERP), the largest environmental restoration effort in history to repair and revive the ecosystem. In November 2007, Congress overrode a President Bush veto and passed the Water Resource Development Act (WRDA) of 2007, authorizing $1.8 billion in Everglades restoration funding and reaffirming Congressional support for Everglades Restoration.Original bipartisan cosponsors of the resolution included Representatives Lincoln Diaz-Balart, Allen Boyd, Corrine Brown, Vern Buchanan, Kathy Castor, Ric Keller, Ron Klein, Connie Mack, Tim Mahoney, Kendrick Meek, John Mica, Adam Putnam, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Debbie Wasserman Schultz and Robert Wexler. Florida Senators Bill Nelson and Mel Martinez introduced companion legislation that passed the Senate last December.
02.26.2008	WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart will hold a press conference on Tuesday, February 26th in Washington, DC to commemorate the 12th anniversary of the Brothers to the Rescue shoot down. He will be joined by the Cuban American Veterans Association (CAVA) and family members of the victims. Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Congressman Lincoln Diaz-Balart and Congressman Albio Sires will also take part in the event. Diaz-Balart will introduce a resolution honoring the victims, condemning this act of terrorism, and recognizing the 12th anniversary. On February 24th, 1996 two unarmed, U.S. licensed, civilian aircraft of Brothers to the Rescue were shot down by two Cuban Air Force war planes in international air space over the Florida Straits. This tragedy took the lives of Vietnam Veteran Armando Alejandre Jr., Corporal United States Marine Corps; U.S. Citizens Mario de la Pena and Carlos Costa, and legal U.S. resident Pablo Morales.WHO: Congressmen Mario Diaz-Balart, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Albio Sires and Lincoln Diaz-Balart, the Cuban American Veterans Association and family members of the shoot down victimsWHAT: Press Conference to commemorate the 12th Anniversary of the Brothers to the Rescue shoot down and to present a resolution honoring the victims WHEN: Tuesday, February 26th, 2008 at 11:30 a.m.WHERE: 304 Cannon House Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 Miembros del Congreso Honran la Memoria de las Víctimas de Hermanos al RescateWASHINGTON, DC- El Congresista Mario Diaz-Balart ofrecerá una conferencia de prensa el próximo martes 26 de Febrero en Washington, DC para conmemorar el 12 aniversario del asesinato de cuatro integrantes de Hermanos al Rescate. La asociación Cuban American Veterans Association (CAVA), familiares de las víctimas, los Congresistas Lincoln Diaz-Balart y Albio Sires, la Congresista Ileana Ros-Lehtinen y otros Miembros del Congreso también participarán en el evento.El Congresista Mario Diaz-Balart presentará una resolución que honra a las víctimas y condena fuertemente este acto terrorista. El 24 de febrero de 1996 dos avionetas civiles desarmadas, donde volaban heroícos miembros de los Hermanos al Rescate, fueron derribadas en espacio aéreo internacional, por dos aviones de guerra de la Fuerza Aerea Cubana. En este vil acto murieron Armando Alejandre, Veterano de la Guerra de Vietnam; Mario de la Peña y Carlos Costa, ciudadanos americanos y Pablo Morales, residente legal.QUIEN: Congresistas Mario Diaz-Balart, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Albio Sires y Lincoln Diaz-Balart, la Asociación CAVA (Cuban American Veterans Association), y familiares de las víctimasQUE: Conferencia de Prensa para honrar la memoria de las victimas y presentar una Resolución.CUANDO: Martes 26 de Febrero de 2008, a las 11:30 a.m.DONDE: 304 Cannon House Office Building, Washington, DC 20515
02.20.2008	MIAMI—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will tour the University of Miami’s Center for Southeastern Tropical Advanced Remote Sensing (CSTARS) and present a check to the school for $2 million in federal funding this Thursday, February 21, 2008 at 10:00 a.m. at the UM Richmond Campus in Richmond Heights. He will be joined by Donna E. Shalala, Ph.D., president of the University of Miami, and Otis Brown, Ph.D., dean of the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science.CSTARS is a component of the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science. The federal funds will help CSTARS conduct research using remote sensing data received from earth orbiting satellite systems. WHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart, President Donna E. Shalala, Ph.D., Dean Otis Brown, Ph.D. and Co-Director of CSTARS Hans Graber, Sc. D.WHAT: CSTARS Tour and $2 million Check PresentationWHEN: Thursday, February 21, 2008-Tour at 10:00 a.m. & Check Presentation at 10:30 a.m. *Media is invited to participate in the tour*WHERE: University of Miami Richmond Campus, 11811 SW 168 Street, Richmond Heights, FL 33177
02.19.2008	MIAMI- El dictador Fidel Castro anunció que no continuará en el puesto de Presidente del Consejo de Estado y Comandante en Jefe de las Fuerzas Armadas. Sobre el tema el Congresista Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) hizo la siguiente declaración:“Hasta ahora no ha habido ningún cambio en Cuba. El dictador ha renunciado a determinados cargos pero todavía está en control del régimen totalitario. En Cuba no habrá cambios verdaderos hasta tanto no se liberen todos los presos políticos, se legalicen los partidos políticos, haya libertad de prensa y se convoquen elecciones libres. Hasta que ese día llegue, seguiré luchando por una transición democrática en Cuba sin los hermanos Castro.”
02.19.2008	MIAMI—Today, Cuban dictator Fidel Castro announced that he will not “seek the position of President of the Council of State and Commander in Chief,” to which Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) issued the following statement:“As of this time, there is no change in Cuba. Fidel Castro may have “relinquished” some titles, but he is still the dictator and in control. True change will not begin in Cuba until all political prisoners are released, political parties, labor unions and free press are legalized, and the process of free, supervised, multi-party elections begin. We must continue to press for a democratic transition from this oppressive regime,” said Diaz-Balart.
01.29.2008	MIAMI—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) will host Guarding Our Children Against Internet Predators on Saturday, February 2nd from 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. at Homestead City Hall, Council Chambers located at 790 North Homestead Boulevard.“We have seen and read the disgusting horror stories about pedophiles who seek out children online, yet many parents do not know what steps they can take to protect their families,” said Diaz-Balart. “I am hosting this series in an effort to create awareness throughout our community and keep our children safe from these vile predators.” This forum is part of Diaz-Balart’s Protecting Our Families Online initiative launched in 2007 to help parents and families protect themselves against online predators and ID theft. Registration is free and open to the public.“In recent years the Internet has had a huge impact on the way we communicate and gather information and it can be a great tool if used responsibly and with precaution,” said Diaz-Balart. Expert representatives from the following government agencies will be on site to explain the technology involved and to highlight key ways for parents to protect their families online. Those include the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and Miami-Dade Police Department (MDPD).
01.28.2008	WASHINGTON, DC- El Congresista Mario Diaz-Balart (Republicano de Florida) hizo las siguientes declaraciones sobre el discurso sobre el Estado de la Unión:“Esta noche el Presidente George W. Bush hará su último discurso sobre el Estado de la Unión en el cual reiterará sus prioridades: la Seguridad Nacional, el Fortalecimiento de la Economía y la Libertad.“El Presidente hará énfasis en la importancia de aprobar un grupo de estímulos económicos que beneficiará a los contribuyentes y estimulará la economía nacional. Este grupo de incentivos económicos permitirá también actualizar la Ley de Inteligencia Extranjera que es vital para nuestra seguridad nacional. “Otro tema que será tratado claramente esta noche es la importancia de aprobar los Tratados de Libre Comercio con Colombia y Panamá. Yo apoyo fuertemente los tratados comerciales con los países democráticos porque ellos fortalecen a nuestros aliados en la región y abren nuevas oportunidades económicas y de empleos para muchos americanos.“Me siento muy orgulloso al ver que el Presidente George W. Bush y la Primera Dama Laura Bush continúan demostrando su solidaridad con el pueblo de Cuba. Ellos han invitado a Blanca González a presenciar el discurso del Presidente esta noche. Ella es la madre de Normando Hernández González, uno de los presos políticos que sufre en las cárceles castristas. No cabe dudas de que el Presidente George W. Bush sigue siendo el mejor amigo de la causa de la Libertad de Cuba,” concluyó el Congresista.
01.28.2008	WASHINGTON—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) today issued the following statement regarding the State of the Union address:“Tonight President Bush will deliver his final State of the Union Address, once again addressing the issues most important to Americans. It is clear that national security, strengthening our economy and ensuring freedom and democracy remain priorities for the President.“He will stress the importance of passing an economic stimulus package that will benefit American taxpayers and our nation’s economy and updating the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA), which is critical for our national security.“Another issue that will be clear in his address is the importance of passing Free Trade Agreements with Colombia and Panama. I am a strong supporter of free trade with free and democratic nations. Not only does it strengthen our allies in the region, but also it creates jobs and economic opportunities for many in the U.S. “I am also glad to see that President Bush and First Lady Laura Bush have once again demonstrated their solidarity with the Cuban people by inviting Blanca Gonzalez to the State of the Union Address. She is the mother of Normando Hernandez Gonzalez, a political prisoner suffering in Castro’s tropical gulag. President Bush continues to be the best friend of the cause of freedom.”
01.18.2008	WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), a member of the House Budget Committee, made the following statement in support of President Bush’s economic growth package:“Today President Bush laid out a strong foundation of economic principles for the stimulus package our country needs. It is critical that we continue to provide tax incentives to the American taxpayer, so that they can keep more of their hard-earned money. At the same time, we must encourage investment by also providing tax relief to those who create jobs. I am a strong believer that tax incentives will inject the economy with a much needed boost.As a member of the House Budget Committee, I keep a close eye on economic developments; and I look forward to working with my colleagues in a bipartisan way to find responsible and effective stimulus that will have a positive economic effect both in the short and long run.”
01.10.2008	MIAMI—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee will participate in the 95Express ceremony this Friday, January 11, 2008 at 11:00 a.m. at the Overtown Transit Village in Miami-Dade. The Honorable John Mica (R-FL), Ranking Member of Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, will also be in attendance.In August of last year, the U.S. Department of Transportation chose the Florida Department of Transportation and Miami-Dade and Broward counties as Urban Partners and is providing $62.9 million in federal funding to improve Interstate 95. Under the Urban Partnership Agreement (UPA), the Department of Transportation works with Urban Partners in order to facilitate strategies that can be effective in reducing traffic congestion. WHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart, The Honorable John Mica, Florida Department of Transportation Secretary Stephanie C. Kopelousos, Miami-Dade County Commission Chairman Bruno Barreiro, and other state and local officialsWHAT: 95Express kick-off eventWHEN: Friday, January 11, 2008 at 11:00 a.m.WHERE: Overtown Transit Village 701 NW First Court, Miami, Florida 33136 (on the parking garage rooftop)
01.10.2008	MIAMI—Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Aviation Subcommittee, and Congressman John Mica (R-FL), Ranking Member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, will visit the Air Traffic Control Tower at Miami International Airport this Friday, January 11, 2008 at 9:30 a.m. Diaz-Balart and Mica will also meet with members of the National Air Traffic Controllers Association (NATCA).Due to federal regulations, the event is closed to the public. Members of the press are invited to attend a brief media availability immediately following the event and may assemble outside the Air Traffic Control Tower at the west end of the tower gate, near the wall that identifies the facility as the Federal Aviation Administration Miami Airport Traffic Control Tower. WHO: Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart and Congressman John MicaWHAT: Visit to the Air Traffic Control Tower at Miami International AirportWHEN: Friday, January 11, 2008 at 9:30 a.m.WHERE: Miami International Airport, Air Traffic Control Tower 6400 NW 22nd Street, Miami, FL 33122 *outside the Air Traffic Control Tower at the west end of the tower gate, near the wall that identifies the facility as the Federal Aviation Administration Miami Airport Traffic Control Tower
