02.09.2019	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) issued the following statement upon learning of the passing of William “Bill” Burgess of Lawton, Oklahoma: “I was shocked and saddened to learn of the sudden and untimely death of my dear friend Bill Burgess of Lawton,” said Cole. “Without question, Bill lived an incredible life in service to his community, state and nation. The world is truly a better place because of him. “Bill was a gifted attorney, businessman and civic leader. He rendered invaluable service to our state as a regent for both the Oklahoma Board of Regents for Higher Education and the University of Oklahoma Board of Regents. Bill also served our country as a Civilian Aide to the Secretary of the Army, a job he took seriously and performed with exceptional energy and dedication. No one loved, admired and supported our men and women in uniform more than Bill. “Widely recognized and respected as one of Oklahoma’s outstanding leaders, Bill was inducted into both the Oklahoma Hall of Fame and the Oklahoma Higher Education Hall of Fame. As a businessman who developed the largest software engineering company in Oklahoma and was once the owner and publisher of the Lawton Constitution, Bill was admired for his entrepreneurial ability and success. A tireless advocate for Oklahoma business, he served stints as Chairman of both the Oklahoma State Chamber of Commerce and the Oklahoma Business Roundtable. “Bill was not only an extraordinary leader for Oklahoma, he was one of my closest friends and strongest supporters. We bonded immediately when we met in the 1990s. But that wasn’t unusual for Bill. He had a gift for making and keeping friends. We relished our shared background as the offspring of career noncommissioned officers and the products of military families. And we worked tirelessly in the public arena to advance policies and leaders who we both thought would benefit our state and country. “I extend my sincere sympathies to Bill’s dear wife, his beloved children, his extended family and his legions of friends, associates and admirers. Oklahoma has lost a leader of exceptional vision, energy, ability and character. And I have lost a dear friend whom I shall always remember and who I will miss for all my days.” ###
02.08.2019	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the passing of former Congressman John Dingell, who served in the United States Congress longer than any other member in history. “I was very sad to hear about the passing of former Congressman John Dingell, a legendary figure in the House who served his constituents for nearly 60 years,” said Cole. “Before he retired in 2015, I had the great pleasure of getting to know John and enjoying some great laughs from his incredible sense of humor. Without question, he leaves behind an incredible legacy. “During this difficult time, my thoughts and prayers are with John’s wife Congresswoman Debbie Dingell, their family and many loved ones.” ###
02.06.2019	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Jim Inhofe (R-OK) and James Lankford (R-Okla.), along with Congressman Kevin Hern (R, OK-01), Congressman Markwayne Mullin (R, OK-02), Congressman Frank Lucas (R, OK-3), Congressman Tom Cole (R, OK-04) and Congresswoman Kendra Horn (D, OK-5) led a letter to Ms. Zevely of the Council of Chief State School Officers in support of Oklahoma’s Donna Gradel, who was nominated for the 2019 National Teacher of the Year. “We write in strong support for the nomination of Donna Gradel of Broken Arrow, Oklahoma, for the 2019 National Teacher of the Year,” the delegation wrote. “This profound honor would be well deserved for Ms. Gradel who has dedicated almost three decades of her life to her students and their academic success. “As the 2018 Teacher of the Year from Oklahoma, Ms. Gradel continues to impress us and … continues to be a standard-bearer for educational excellence.” A copy of the letter is available here and pasted below. February 5, 2019 Emily Zevely Council of Chief State School Officers One Massachusetts Avenue, NW Suite 700 Washington, D.C. 20001 Dear Ms. Zevely: We write in strong support for the nomination of Donna Gradel of Broken Arrow, Oklahoma, for the 2019 National Teacher of the Year. This profound honor would be well deserved for Ms. Gradel who has dedicated almost three decades of her life to her students and their academic success. We fully understand the nomination process for National Teacher of the Year is rigorous and competitive, and we believe Ms. Gradel would make the Nation proud. As the 2018 Teacher of the Year from Oklahoma, Ms. Gradel continues to impress us and her peers across the country. Her passion for education is reflected by the success of her students at Broken Arrow High School. Oklahoma is rich with passionate and dedicated educators and Ms. Gradel continues to be a standard-bearer for educational excellence. ###
02.05.2019	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after President Donald Trump delivered his annual State of the Union address during a joint session of Congress. “In stark contrast to the highly polarized and partisan political environment, President Trump delivered an inspiring speech that sought to unify rather than divide,” said Cole. “While he remained true to his vision for America’s success and greatness, President Trump affirmed that he is focused on solving the pressing problems holding our nation back. The president rightly brought up the need to fix our immigration system and secure the border, but he was realistic in his approach. During his speech, I was pleased that the president renewed his commitment to American workers and called on Congress to confront problems with the nation’s infrastructure. “I was particularly pleased that the president focused on several areas where Republicans and Democrats can work together to improve the lives of the American people. He pointed out that we can continue to make real progress in tackling the opioid epidemic, defeating HIV and curing cancer. And he once again challenged both parties to produce a meaningful and substantial infrastructure bill that will strengthen our nation’s economy and enhance our ability to compete with other countries for the jobs of the future. “Along with calling for solutions, President Trump also highlighted several achievements from the past two years. He rightly pointed out the exceptional economic growth that has taken place and led to record-low unemployment, wage growth and job creation. He also noted the great success in negotiating better trade deals for the United States and rebuilding the military. There is no question that the country is indeed stronger and greater because of the president’s leadership. “Especially in divided government, it is critical that both chambers of Congress and the president work together. Rather than oppose anything the president proposes or disagree with anything he says just for the sake of it, I hope Democrats will embrace the clear and common goals he outlined to improve the lives of Americans and unify us all.” ###
01.30.2019	Washington, D.C. – This week, the bipartisan Congressional Native American Caucus established its leadership for the 116th Congress. Congressman Tom Cole (R-OK) and Congresswoman Deb Haaland (D-NM) will serve as Co-Chairs of the caucus. Following six years of distinguished service as Co-Chair, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) will remain on the caucus as Co-Chair Emeritus. The caucus seeks to educate members of Congress and encourage an open dialogue about issues affecting Native Americans. As part of this mission, the caucus regularly convenes briefings, considers the impact of legislation on tribal nations and provides a forum for members of Congress to exchange information, ideas and research. “As a citizen of the Chickasaw Nation of Oklahoma, I have always considered it a great privilege to represent the interests and constitutionally-given rights of tribes in Congress,” said Co-Chair Tom Cole. “Long before the United States came to be, tribes greatly influenced the land in which we live. While the federal government has at times had a strained relationship with Indian Country, I am encouraged that efforts have been made to repair and improve it over the years. To ensure that work continues, the Congressional Native American Caucus remains a vital body in the House for educating members on tribal sovereignty and improving the lives of Native Americans. I very much look forward to leading alongside new Co-Chair Deb Haaland, continuing to serve with Co-Chair Emeritus Betty McCollum and working with a great roster of Vice Chairs and members.” “Through my role as Native American Caucus Co-chair, I’ll work with Co-Chair Tom Cole to raise awareness about tribal sovereignty and the federal government’s trust responsibility to Tribes. I also want to thank my dear friend and colleague Rep. Betty McCollum who has been a tireless champion for Indian Country and I look forward to working with her as Co-Chair Emeritus of the caucus,” said Co-Chair Deb Haaland. “I will be a strong advocate for Native communities in New Mexico and across the country to improve education opportunities, protect and increase access to quality healthcare, expand broadband services, address the silent crisis of missing and murdered indigenous people, and ensure that tribal sovereignty is respected.” In addition to establishing Co-Chairs, the caucus also named the following Vice Chairs: Congresswoman Sharice Davids (D-KS) Congressman Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ) Congressman Doug LaMalfa (R-CA) Congressman David Joyce (R-OH) Congressman Ben Ray Luján (D-NM) Congressman Markwayne Mullin (R-OK) Congressman Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) Congressman Don Young (R-AK) About the Co-Chairs Elected in 2002 and Co-Chair of the Native American Caucus since 2009, Congressman Tom Cole is considered the foremost expert in the House on issues related to Native Americans and tribal governments. An enrolled member of the Chickasaw Nation of Oklahoma, Cole is one of only four Native Americans currently serving in Congress. The National Congress of American Indians has recognized Cole’s distinguished service with the Congressional Leadership award on three different occasions, more than any other Member of Congress in the history of the organization. He was inducted into the Chickasaw Hall of Fame in 2004. Congresswoman Deb Haaland is a 35th generation New Mexican and an enrolled member of the Pueblo of Laguna who also has Jemez Pueblo heritage. Before being elected to Congress, Haaland was a former tribal administrator who administered a local service provider for adults with developmental disabilities and worked to increase access to voting in rural and tribal communities. In 2016, she traveled to Standing Rock to stand side-by-side with the community to protect tribal sovereignty and advocate vital natural resources. ###
01.25.2019	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after President Donald Trump announced a new proposal to end the partial government shutdown. The plan would reopen and fund currently affected agencies through February 15 and provide backpay to federal workers. “I am relieved that agreement has been reached to reopen the government and pay the hundreds of thousands of federal workers suffering as a result. Their commitment despite this hardship has been tremendous,” said Cole. “Through his announcement today, the president demonstrated yet again that he is willing to negotiate in good faith, and Democrats are now out of excuses for refusing to do so as well. In the weeks ahead, it is critical that Democrats stay true to their promise of working with Republicans and the president on solutions for border security. I believe we can find a compromise that both sides agree on and which reflects the views of the American people.” ###
01.19.2019	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement in support of President Donald Trump’s effort to compromise with Democrats, secure the border, provide legal status to recipients of DACA and reopen the government. “Today, President Trump outlined a real compromise to end the partial government shutdown, demonstrating his willingness to negotiate in good faith. The plan includes things both sides agree need to be solved,” said Cole. “It would provide legal status for DACA recipients—something that Democrats have long demanded. In addition, it would provide money for physical barriers, technology, infrastructure and personnel that are much needed to secure our southern border. Finally, it would immediately reopen the government, so negotiations on other matters of national importance can proceed. “Thus far, Democrats have been determined to put political fights ahead of the critical need to strengthen border security. President Trump is clearly trying to negotiate in good faith with Democratic leadership in order to end this painful government shutdown. For the good of the entire country, I hope Democrats finally come to their senses, work with Republicans and the president to enact real solutions and finally reopen the government.” ###
01.16.2019	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Tom Udall (D-N.M.) and Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska) along with U.S. Representatives Karen Bass (D-Calif.), Don Bacon (R-Neb.), Betty McCollum (D-Minn.), Tom Cole (R-Okla.), and Don Young (R-Alaska) filed an amicus brief in federal court making the case for the constitutionality of the Indian Child Welfare Act (ICWA). The lawmakers’ brief, filed with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, comes as the court hears a challenge to an October ruling from U.S. District Court for Northern District of Texas, which wrongly struck down key provisions of ICWA in Brackeen v. Zinke. Udall is the current vice chairman of the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs. Murkowski is the former vice chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs. Bass, Bacon, McCollum, Cole, and Young serve in leadership for the Congressional Caucus on Foster Youth and Congressional Native American Caucus. The amicus brief urges the Fifth Circuit to reverse the district court’s ruling in Brackeen v. Zinke, which wrongly held key provisions of ICWA unconstitutional on equal protection grounds. The brief strongly argues that the lower court’s ruling is not supported by the Constitution. The brief further highlights that the ruling contradicts decades of Supreme Court caselaw making clear that Congress has broad and exclusive authority to legislate for the benefit of Indians and that legislation like ICWA does not impermissibly discriminate on the basis of race. The full text of the brief is available HERE. “Congress wrote the Indian Child Welfare Act over 40 years ago in recognition of the fact that Native American children – like all children – thrive when they are able to grow up with the support of their families, communities, and cultures,” said Udall. “The Northern District of Texas’s ICWA ruling improperly constrains Congress’s constitutional authorities while ignoring decades of Supreme Court precedents. Most concerning of all, it threatens the wellbeing of Native communities and, if allowed to stand, would deny Native children critical protections that enforce best practices in child welfare systems. I’m proud to have worked with Senator Murkowski and my colleagues in the House to support ICWA and challenge this dangerous decision.” “The Indian Child Welfare Act (ICWA) is among the most significant pieces of Indian legislation Congress has ever enacted, for its purpose is maintaining the integrity of Native culture and family," said Murkowski. "Last year’s Texas federal court decision deeming ICWA unconstitutional upends decades of cooperation between the State of Alaska and Alaska tribes to ensure that Native children in need of aid are placed in culturally supportive environments. I am proud to join with this group of congressional leaders on Indian policy in an effort to persuade the US Court of Appeals that ICWA is in fact constitutional and that the Texas federal court decision is inconsistent with Congress’ plenary power over matters of Indian Affairs.” “American Indian and Alaska Native children are removed by state child welfare agencies with greater frequency than any other group,” said Bass. “The Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978 was among the first national child welfare standards established by Congress. Two years later in 1980 Congress established national standards for all families in the Adoption Assistance and Child Welfare Act. Congress is well within its authority to legislate to protect Indian children, families and tribes. “Recognizing the importance of community and culture, Congress passed the ICWA as a means to keep children with their Indian families,”said Bacon. “I am thankful to be among this bipartisan group of Congressional leaders, dedicated to the wellbeing of Indian children and continuation of the ICWA.” “The Indian Child Welfare Act protects the best interests of Native children and tribal communities,” said McCollum. “These protections allow children to safely remain within their tribal nations and be brought up to know and appreciate their cultural heritage. I’m proud to join my colleagues, who are all leaders on Indian Country issues in Congress, to defend the constitutionality of ICWA, to affirm the sovereignty of tribal nations, and to ensure that we do not return to the days when Native children were regularly removed from their tribes with no legal recourse.” “When the Indian Child Welfare Act was passed by Congress and enacted 40 years ago, it rightly affirmed tribal sovereignty and sought to preserve a unique and special heritage for Native children and keep families together,” said Cole. “It is very concerning that the constitutionality of this important law is being questioned in the courts. As a member of the Chickasaw Nation of Oklahoma, I am proud to be a part of this effort to protect the constitutional obligation our nation has to tribes. That trust must not be broken.” “I worked with former Representative Mo Udall to pass the Indian Child Welfare Act in 1978 and have defended it during my time in Congress," said Young. "The District Court’s decision was based on a flawed assessment of ICWA and a lack of understanding of the federal government’s trust relationship with Alaska Natives and American Indians. As a supporter of ICWA from its inception, I am proud to join this friend of the court brief that explains the legal principles behind the original Congressional intent of the legislation. ICWA remains critical for protecting Native children and preventing the loss of Native communities.” Enacted in 1978, ICWA sets best-practice standards for child welfare and adoption proceedings involving children who are members of a federally-recognized Tribe or are eligible for membership in a federally-recognized Tribe. Congress designed the law to respond to the disproportionately high number of Native children who were unnecessarily removed from their families. Over four decades, the law has become the “gold standard” for child welfare policy and keeping Native children connected to their communities and cultures. Last year, Udall, Murkowski, Bass and Cole led 46 members of Congress in introducing a bipartisan resolution commemorating the 40th anniversary of ICWA, and recognizing its importance to promoting the stability and security of Tribal communities and families. ###
01.16.2019	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), a member of the House Appropriations Committee since 2009, released the following statement after it was announced that he will hold two leadership roles on the committee in the 116th Congress. Cole will continue to serve as the top Republican leader of the Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies. He was also appointed by House Appropriations Ranking Member Kay Granger to serve as Vice Ranking Member of the committee. “I look forward to continuing to serve on the House Appropriations Committee,” said Congressman Cole. “While this era of divided government will continue to present challenges, I believe that we can still achieve conservative wins for the American people. I am honored by the opportunity to support my friend Kay Granger’s leadership and to work closely with a great team of Republican colleagues.” “Tom Cole is not only an insightful member and effective communicator, he is a skilled and learned negotiator with a real talent for finding areas of agreement,” said Ranking Member Granger. “I look forward to working with him as we seek to ensure the priorities of the American people are reflected in the work of the House Appropriations Committee.” Link to original announcement here. ###
01.14.2019	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) today announced the promotion of William McPherson to District Director. Effective January 15, McPherson assumes the role after the departure of Jeff Peters, who will join Lieutenant Governor-elect Matt Pinnell as Chief of Staff. Since 2015, McPherson has served with distinction as Field Representative for the northern part of the Fourth District of Oklahoma. Prior to joining Cole’s office, he served as Policy Advisor and Legislative Liaison for the Office of Governor Mary Fallin. He is a graduate of the University of Oklahoma, where he received a Bachelor of Arts in Public Affairs and Administration and a Master of Public Administration. “I am pleased that William McPherson will serve as my new District Director,” said Cole. “Since joining my staff, Will has demonstrated tireless skill and tremendous leadership for the Fourth District. His incredible work ethic, strong relationships and government background made him an asset from the start. I have every confidence in his vision for overseeing my district operation.” Cole also announced other changes to his district staff. Thomas Lewis II, who serves as Field Representative for the southwest portion of the district, will relocate to the Norman office and cover the northern territory. Scott Chance, who comes with extensive campaign background in Oklahoma, has been hired as the southwestern Field Representative and will be based in the Lawton office. “With Thomas bringing his background to new territory and Scott joining the team, I am delighted that my field staff will remain sharp and diligent,” said Cole. “I look forward to our service together in the days ahead.” # # #
01.11.2019	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) today announced the names of 18 students who have been nominated from the Fourth District of Oklahoma for entry into one of America’s prestigious military academies. The United States service academies provide for the undergraduate education and training of commissioned officers for the United States Armed Forces. The academies that receive congressionally nominated students include the U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, the U.S. Military Academy at West Point and the U.S. Naval Academy. The nomination process is highly competitive. Applicants are evaluated for academic performance and standing, including class rank, SAT/ACT scores and school records. Other criteria considered by Congressman Cole and the recommendation panel includes athletics, physical fitness, extracurricular activities, recommendations and leadership potential. Upon congressional nomination, students become eligible for consideration to receive an appointment to the service academy (or academies) to which they applied. “I am honored to recommend an exceptional group of candidates for appointment to one of our nation’s fine military academies,” said Cole. “Coming from several communities across the Fourth District of Oklahoma, these young leaders truly are some of the best and brightest of their generation. I am inspired by their willingness to answer the call of duty and by their desire to sacrifice and serve on behalf of our country.” The list below includes the names, hometowns and high school information of the students, as well as the academies to which they were nominated. Note that applications are still being considered by the selection committees for potential admission at the various academies. Many of the students received nominations to multiple academies. U.S. Air Force Academy David Bruce, Norman – Norman North High School John Ryan Cook, Oklahoma City – Carl Albert High School Colby Dirck, Noble – Noble High School Alena Dunaway, Purcell – Oklahoma School of Science & Mathematics Ainslee Gabriel, Norman – Norman High School Jack Dallas Grimmett, Pauls Valley – Pauls Valley High School Decklin Nagel, Norman – Westmoore High School Zachary Nemecek, Oklahoma City – Southmoore High School Trace Stewart, Marietta – Marietta High School Enrique Thompson, Tuttle – Epic Charter High School U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Alena Dunaway, Purcell – Oklahoma School of Science & Mathematics Heyward Hutson, Cache – Cache High School Robert Kemmet, Norman – Norman North High School Trace Stewart, Marietta – Marietta High School Avery Stout, Midwest City – Carl Albert High School U.S. Military Academy at West Point John Ryan Cook, Oklahoma City – Carl Albert High School Heyward Hutson, Cache – Cache High School Quinn Matthey, Elgin – Elgin High School John McDowell, Norman – Thomas Edison High School Zachary Nemecek, Oklahoma City – Southmoore High School Trace Stewart, Marietta – Marietta High School Avery Stout, Midwest City – Carl Albert High School Bryson Stricker, Ardmore – Plainview High School Samuel Wishon, Norman – Norman High School U.S. Naval Academy Ainslee Gabriel, Norman – Norman High School Paula Hackbart, Newalla – Moore High School Robert Kemmet, Norman – Norman North High School Trace Stewart, Marietta – Marietta High School Avery Stout, Midwest City – Carl Albert High School Bryson Stricker, Ardmore – Plainview High School # # #
01.08.2019	Washington, D.C. – Senators Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), James Lankford (R-Okla.) and Congressman Tom Cole (R, OK-04) recognized the 150th anniversary of Fort Sill: “I am proud to recognize Fort Sill as they celebrate their 150th anniversary,” Inhofe said. “Fort Sill and the Fires Center of Excellence play a critical role in achieving the Army’s top priorities in military readiness and modernization by ensuring our soldiers are trained and equipped to fight and defend this country. The importance of Fort Sill’s mission, coupled with unparalleled community and state support, has resulted in continued growth for the installation and I look forward to their bright future. Congratulations to the men and women of Fort Sill and the community of Lawton on this significant milestone.” “I am very proud of Fort Sill’s 150 years of important work to further our military’s mission and also train and equip thousands of our soldiers and Marines,” said Lankford. “Fort Sill and the Fires Center of Excellence are pivotal to our military and the surrounding communities, including and especially Lawton. I am grateful for our many Oklahoma communities who continue to serve the families who serve our nation. I would like to personally thank Fort Still’s leadership for continuing to provide my office with important updates on activities at Fort Sill and for remaining engaged with me and my staff to help answer any questions and work through specific military legislative issues. I offer my congratulations and thanks to everyone at Fort Sill on this important milestone.” “As the home of field artillery, Fort Sill’s contributions over the last 150 years have been numerous and long lasting,” Cole said. “The Army’s Fires Center of Excellence has greatly prepared service members and indeed increased the overall strength and readiness of our nation’s total defense. During my many visits while serving the Fourth District of Oklahoma, I have had the great privilege of observing firsthand the incredible role Fort Sill plays in the development and implementation of Air Defense and Field Artillery training for the Army of the future. In celebrating 150 years of excellence, I am confident Fort Sill and the Fires Center of Excellence will remain a driving and pioneering force that prepares our military to successfully complete every mission.” Senators Inhofe and Lankford introduced a S.Res. 11 today to recognize Fort Sill’s milestone. Congressman Cole has introduced companion legislation in the House of Representatives. # # #
12.28.2018	Norman, OK – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after he was appointed by Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy to serve as Ranking Member of the House Rules Committee in the 116th Congress. Ranking Member is the top Republican leadership position on this important panel. Before consideration on the House floor, every piece of legislation must first pass through the Rules Committee. “Going into the new Congress, I am honored to serve as Ranking Member of the House Rules Committee,” said Cole. “I am grateful to Leader McCarthy for appointing me to serve in this key role on behalf of House Republicans and entrusting me to lead. While divided government is challenging, the American people are still counting on Congress to govern. Without question, the Rules Committee is an essential piece in the process of fulfilling that duty effectively. In my new role, I look forward to continuing to serve on the Rules panel and working with my colleagues to ensure Republicans remain heard and influential.” Prior to this appointment, Cole has served numerous stints on the House Rules Committee. He first served as a member from 2004 to 2006; he was then reappointed in 2013 in the 113th Congress and has remained on the panel during each consecutive Congress. Since 2017, he has served as Vice Chairman of the committee. # # #
12.20.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), a member of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed a short-term funding measure to avoid a partial government shutdown. The continuing resolution funds the remaining areas of government at current levels until February 8, 2019. It also includes additional funding for border security and disaster relief. “Both sides agree that the government should be kept open and operational,” said Cole. “I am pleased that the funding measure passed by the House does exactly that while also providing for some other pressing needs in country. Along with vital funding for disaster relief, the legislation also fulfills the modest request from the president to begin strengthening security at our borders. While a continuing resolution is not ideal for funding the government, the legislation importantly prevents the far worse alternative of a partial government shutdown.” # # #
12.20.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis announced he will resign his post at the end of February 2019. “During his decades of extraordinary service and fearless leadership for our country, Jim Mattis has served with the utmost distinction and honor. The most revered Marine general in at least a generation and a living legend, his sense of duty is unmatched. His enduring belief and support of alliances and partnerships is an essential element of long-lasting peace and security, both at home and abroad. I am stunned and saddened by the news of his departure.” # # #
12.20.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) and Congressman Markwayne Mullin (OK-02) issued the following statements after the U.S. House of Representatives approved the final version of H.R. 2606, the Stigler Act Amendments of 2018, which was passed by the Senate last week. First introduced by Cole and co-sponsored by Mullin in the House, the legislation amends the Stigler Act of 1947 to remove the one-half degree Native American blood quantum restriction for holders of tribal allotment land. The legislation specifically impacts citizens of Oklahoma’s Five Tribes: the Chickasaw, Cherokee, Choctaw, Muscogee (Creek) and Seminole nations. “I am pleased that both chambers of Congress approved changes to the misguided Stigler Act of 1947, which clearly discriminates against citizens of Oklahoma’s Five Tribes,” said Congressman Cole, a citizen of the Chickasaw Nation and co-chair of the Native American Caucus. “Without question and especially in Oklahoma, Native American heritage is something to be celebrated. But that special heritage must also be protected, preserved and passed on. Land ownership is part of that unique inheritance for many tribal citizens and their descendants, and over the years, the Stigler Act has unfortunately diminished that rightful inheritance due to an unfair blood quantum requirement. By amending the Stigler Act, I am proud that the rights and privileges promised to all Native Americans will also be extended to Oklahoma’s Five Tribes. In getting this important legislation to the president’s desk, I am very grateful for the strong support offered by Oklahoma’s entire congressional delegation.” “Today marks another great step forward for Native Americans and the land they call home,” said Congressman Markwayne Mullin, a citizen of the Cherokee Nation and vice-chair of the Native American Caucus. “Land that is handed down from generation to generation in Native American families is a part of our culture. It is what allows families like mine to continually pass their family’s history on to the next generation. The members of the Five Tribes deserve the right to hand down their history without blood quantum requirements—just like members of every other tribe can. I look forward to the president signing the Stigler Act Amendments into law.” Background: The Dawes Act of 1887 authorized the federal government to survey tribal lands and divide them into allotments for individual tribal citizens of Oklahoma’s Five Tribes. Title to these allotments was then set forth in the Stigler Act of 1947, requiring heirs and devisees have at least one-half degree Native American blood to retain “restricted fee” status of allotted land. Restricted land is not subject to state taxation. Federal law does not dictate a minimum Native American blood quantum requirement for any other tribe with regards to its territory. In amending the original Stigler Act, heirs and devisees are given the opportunity to take title to allotted land and allow the parcel to maintain its “restricted fee” status. By removing the blood quantum requirement imposed on citizens of Oklahoma’s Five Tribes, the legislation also creates parity in federal law in the treatment of Native Americans. # # #
12.12.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Conference Report to Accompany H.R. 2 - Agriculture Improvement Act. The legislation reflects the bicameral agreement reached to reconcile the differences between previously passed versions of the 2018 Farm Bill in the House and Senate. “Through passage of the conference report for the 2018 Farm Bill, I am pleased that lawmakers showed bipartisan support for the continued success of our nation’s farmers and ranchers,” said Cole. “To maintain healthy crops and produce, farmers and ranchers greatly rely on the crop insurance, conservation and various other programs contained in the Farm Bill. While the reauthorization of these vital securities promotes a thriving agricultural sector, American families and consumers are also better off when certainty is provided to our food growers and producers. “The 2018 Farm Bill builds upon the 2014 bill guided by Oklahoma’s own Frank Lucas. He also played a key role in crafting the current legislation. Oklahoma and rural America are fortunate to have such a skillful legislator working on their behalf.” # # #
12.01.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) mourned the loss of former President George H. W. Bush, the 41st president of the United States. “I am deeply saddened by the passing of former President George H. W. Bush. He was an inspirational American figure and principled leader, who devoted his life to public service and benefiting the greater good. He was not defined by his politics but always by compassion for others and love of our great nation. “As a Republican State Chairman, the NRCC’s Executive Director and a GOP political consultant, I interacted with George H. W. Bush on many occasions during the 1980s and 90s. I found him to be invariably thoughtful, substantive, modest and polite. President Bush always cared about others more than himself. He was the most grounded and least egotistical politician I ever met. His sheer decency and profound wisdom were often overlooked because he refused to boast about his many personal and political accomplishments. President Bush personified the virtues of the so called ‘greatest generation’ that won the Second World War and turned America into an economic powerhouse and a beacon of freedom that was the envy and hope of the world. “Along with Ronald Reagan, George H. W. Bush led America to victory in the Cold War, consigning the old Soviet Union to the ash heap of history. When he departed office, he left the world at peace and America as the globe’s only and uncontested superpower. It was an amazing achievement that was unappreciated at the time. “His legacy extends far beyond any office or position he held. First and foremost, he was a family man. George H. W. Bush was a devoted husband, beloved father and adored grandfather. My thoughts and prayers are with the entire Bush family as they mourn this incredibly difficult loss.” ###
11.29.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) congratulated Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) after she was elected by the House Republican Steering Committee to serve as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee in the 116th Congress. “I congratulate my friend and colleague Kay Granger on her election to lead as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee,” said Cole. “Without question, this is a critical time for our country, and Republicans must remain unified in the days ahead. As we continue to serve together, I will do all I can to support Chairman Granger as the new Republican leader of the committee and will work with her to ensure Republicans remain influential in divided government.” Cole has served on the House Appropriations Committee since 2009, and he is currently chairman of the Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies. He also sits on the Defense and Interior subcommittees. ###
11.28.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after he was elected to serve on the House Republican Steering Committee for the 116th Congress. The panel is responsible for choosing leaders and assigning members to various committees of the House. “I am greatly honored to again serve on the House Republican Steering Committee,” said Cole. “Especially in times of divided government, it is vital for members to serve where they can be most influential and provide substantive insight. In the days ahead, I look forward to meeting with my fellow members and providing my input on those important assignments.” ###
11.27.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Senators Tom Udall (D-N.M.) and John Hoeven (R-N.D.), vice chairman and chairman of the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs, respectively, along with Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska) and Representatives Karen Bass (D-Calif.) and Tom Cole (R-Okla.), led 46 members of Congress in introducing a bipartisan resolution commemorating the 40th anniversary of the Indian Child Welfare Act (ICWA), recognizing its importance to promoting the stability and security of Tribal communities and families. ICWA sets best-practice standards for child welfare and adoption proceedings involving children who are members of a federally-recognized Tribe or are eligible for membership in a federally-recognized Tribe. It was designed to respond to the disproportionately high number of Native children who were unnecessarily removed from their families. When the law was first enacted in 1978, one-third of all Native children in the U.S. were placed in foster care or adoptive homes by child welfare systems unfamiliar with tribal child rearing practices, resulting in generations of displaced Native children. Over four decades, the law has become the “gold standard” for child welfare policy and keeping Native children connected to their communities and cultures. “Native American children, like all children, thrive when they are able to grow up with the support of their families, communities, and cultures,” said Udall. “Congress enacted the Indian Child Welfare Act in 1978 to ensure that best practices in child custody for Native communities are in place, keeping families together and kids healthy and safe. Now, on the 40th anniversary of its passage, I’m proud to have worked with my colleagues in the House and Senate to mark the important impact that this law has had on generations of Native kids.” “The Indian Child Welfare Act is an important piece of legislation that respects the principles of government to government relationships with Tribes and Tribal sovereignty,” said Hoeven. “The Indian Child Welfare Act or ICWA is landmark legislation enacted four decades ago to end the abusive practice of ‘adopting out’ Native children in need of aid,” said Murkowski. “Its premise is that Native children who grow up with a connection to their heritage and culture become strong adults and parents. The State of Alaska and Alaska’s 229 tribes have partnered to ensure that this important legislation fulfills its promise to our Native children. It is important that we celebrate this partnership during this 40th anniversary year for ICWA is as vital today as it was on the day it was enacted by Congress.” “Forty years ago, when the Indian Child Welfare Act became law, Congress declared national policy for Tribal children,” said Bass. “Through the Indian Child Welfare Act, Congress recognizes tribes’ sovereign authority to make decisions about children who are tribal members. Eighteen national child welfare and child advocacy organizations — including the Child Welfare League of American, the National Association of Social Workers, and the North American Council on Adoptable Children — are united in their view that the Indian Child Welfare Act is the gold standard for child welfare policies and practices that should be afforded to all children. This bipartisan resolution affirms the principles embodied in the Indian Child Welfare Act, including the importance of protecting the best interests of American Indian and Alaska Native children, promoting the stability and security of Indian Tribes and families, and respecting tribal sovereignty. Congress should pass it.” “At the heart of the Indian Child Welfare Act is the recognition that tribal heritage is a profoundly special and valuable heritage to know and pass on,” said Cole. “Forty years since this monumental legislation was enacted, we affirm our obligation to serve the best interests of Native children and ensure that their tribal heritage is not lost.” In addition to Udall, Hoeven, Murkowski, Bass, and Cole, the Senate resolution is sponsored by Senators Charles Schumer (D-N.Y.), Heidi Heitkamp (D-N.D.), Angus King (I-Maine), Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), Patty Murray (D-Wash.), Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii), Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), Tina Smith (D-Minn.), Tim Kaine (D-Va.), Cory A. Booker (D-N.J.), Catherine Cortez Masto (D-Nev.), Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.), Bernard Sanders (I-Vt.), Jon Tester (D-Mont.), and Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) while the House resolution is sponsored by Representatives Ben Ray Luján (D-N.M.), Ruben Gallego (D-Ariz.), Terri Sewell (D-Ala.), Derek Kilmer (D-Wash.), Raúl M. Grijalva (D-Ariz.), Rick Larsen (D-Wash.), Gwen Moore (D-Wis.), Judy Chu (D-Calif.), Don Young (R-Alaska), Danny Davis (D-Ill.), Pramila Jayapal (D-Wash.), Debbie Dingell (D-Mich.), Betty McCollum (D-Minn.), Markwayne Mullin (R-Okla.), Norma Torres (D-Calif.), Tom Marino (R-Pa.), Tony Cárdenas (D-Calif.), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.), Alcee Hastings (D-Fla.), Jim Langevin (D-R.I.), Ro Khanna (D-Calif.), and Tom O’Halleran (D-Ariz.). The full text of the resolution can be found HERE. ###
09.28.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement announcing the hiring of Sarah Corley as Director of Strategic Communications in his Washington, D.C. office. “I am thrilled that Sarah is returning to my staff to further develop and deepen my outreach and communications strategy,” said Cole. “She is a gifted communicator and an incredibly hard worker with a wealth of knowledge and expertise. And as a native Oklahoman, she knows well the issues that matter to the people of our state. I have great confidence in the guidance and creative insight she brings back to the office. We all look forward to having her on the team again.” Prior to taking on this new position, Sarah has served in a variety of communications roles both on and off Capitol Hill, including as Communications Director for Cole from 2013 to 2016. She rejoins the office beginning on October 9 after serving in the press shop at the House Budget Committee. She also spent time working in media relations at The Phillips Collection. ###
09.28.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies, released the following statement after President Donald Trump signed into law the Conference Report to Accompany H.R. 6157. The legislation was approved by the U.S. House of Representatives earlier this week and includes the annual appropriations bills for the Department of Defense and Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies. Cole attended the bill signing at the White House with President Trump early Friday afternoon. This two-bill package for fiscal year 2019 appropriations reflects the agreement reached earlier this month during negotiations of a bicameral conference committee on which Cole served; it also includes a short-term continuing resolution to ensure all areas of government remain fully funded and operational. “The primary responsibility and obligation of Congress is to ensure the government is funded, and I am pleased that Congress has fulfilled that promise to the American people through the legislation signed into law by the president,” said Cole. “Without question, this is a monumental moment that proves Congress can effectively govern by regular order and responsibly provide for some of the nation’s most pressing and critical needs. I thank the president for further advancing funding that strengthens our military and equips our dedicated service members with the resources they need to forge confidently ahead in every mission. “Along with critical funding for the nation’s defense, I am also incredibly proud that the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies appropriations bill is included in this package and that it maintains many of the priorities first advanced by my subcommittee. It was an honor to be a part of the conference committee negotiations that secured funding for several vital programs and initiatives—including a significant boost for the National Institutes of Health and focused funding for educational and workforce development programs. Without question, this legislation helps ensure that Americans are better off.” ###
09.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies (LHHS), released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Conference Report to Accompany H.R. 6157. The legislation includes the annual appropriations bills for the Department of Defense(DOD) and LHHS. This two-bill package for fiscal year 2019 appropriations reflects the agreement reached earlier this month during negotiations of a bicameral conference committee on which Cole served. “Passage of this legislation is a monumental moment that proves Congress can effectively govern by regular order and responsibly provide for some of the nation’s most pressing and critical needs. This marks the first time in 10 years the DOD Appropriations bill has been sent to the President on time, and the first time in 22 years the LHHS Appropriations bill has been sent to the President on time,” said Cole. “Through this key vote, I am pleased that lawmakers advanced funding that strengthens our military and equips our dedicated service members with the resources they need to forge confidently ahead in every mission. The DOD Appropriation provides funding for 13 new warships, 93 new F-35 joint strike fighter planes, 15 new KC-46 tankers, and monies to add 16,000 additional soldiers to our forces. “Along with critical funding for our nation’s defense, I am also incredibly proud that the LHHS Appropriations bill is included and that it maintained many of the priorities first advanced by the subcommittee I chair. It was an honor to be a part of the conference committee negotiations that secured funding for several vital programs and initiatives—including a significant boost for the National Institutes of Health(NIH) and focused funding for educational programs like TRIO and Gear Up. In addition, the LHHS bill contained healthy increases for Impact Aid, Head Start, and early childhood education programs. Further, the bill also contained funding for workforce development programs and increased funding for career and technical training. Without question, this legislation helps ensure Americans are healthier, better educated, and trained for our collective future. “It is also important to note that these bills passed the House with a large bipartisan majority with 361 Republicans and Democrats voting together in favor of these bills. This critical funding totals nearly 65% of annual government appropriations and is essential to the security and well-being of our country." ###
09.12.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) along with Representatives Markwayne Mullin (OK-02) and Steve Russell (OK-05) released the following statement after H.R. 2606, the Stigler Act Amendment of 2017, passed the House of Representatives by a voice vote. This legislation amends the Stigler Act of 1947, which restricts Native American allotted land to only persons of ½ degree of Native American blood. The Dawes Act of 1887 authorized the federal government to survey tribal lands and divide them into allotted parcels for individual Native Americans. Title to these allotment parcels was set forth in the “Stigler Act of 1947.” The Stigler Act provides that, upon probate, if the heirs and devisees of an original allottee from the Five Tribes (Chickasaw, Choctaw, Seminole, Creek and Cherokee) have passed out of ½ degree Native American blood, the allotment loses its “restricted fee” status. Restricted land is not subject to state taxation. Federal law does not dictate a minimum Native American blood degree requirement for any other tribe. The Stigler Act Amendment of 2017 seeks to amend the original Stigler Act, and remove the ½ degree requirement of Native American blood. In doing so, it would provide the opportunity for heirs and devisees to take title to the land, and allow the parcel to maintain its “restricted” status. This legislation will also create parity in federal law in the treatment of Native American-allotted land by removing minimum blood degree requirement for solely the Five Tribes. “I am pleased that the Stigler Act has passed out of the House,” said Cole. “Amending the Stigler Act will undo this discriminatory law, and allow for past precedent to be current with the realities of Native-owned land. By eliminating the blood quantum requirement, the amendment will support the preservation of the rights and legacies that Native Americans are entitled to, as well as their inheritance. I am proud to have worked with the other Members of the Oklahoma Congressional delegation to achieve this, and I look forward to working with my Senate Colleagues to getting this important legislation to the President’s desk.” “When the Stigler Act of 1947 was passed over 60 years ago, the federal government mandated a ½ blood quantum requirement for restricted land owned by members of the Five Tribes,” said Mullin. “No other tribes in the United States faces this discriminatory measure. For Native Americans, our land is an important part of our heritage and updating the Stigler Act will allow the land allotted to our ancestors to keep its restricted status and remain in the bloodline. I am proud to be an original cosponsor of this legislation to let members of the Five Tribes keep the restricted status of their land within their families for generations to come.” “I look forward to the Senate approving this legislation and sending it to the President. Our Native American community in Oklahoma will be better off with this good bill signed into law,” said Russell ###
09.11.2018	“Seventeen years ago I was in Washington D.C. the day of the 9/11 attack on America. While I was not a member of Congress, I was sitting in the offices of the US Chamber of Commerce looking directly at the White House across Lafayette Square. Gathered with my colleagues and others we turned on our television just in time to see the second plane crash into the twin towers. Minutes later we saw people pour out of the White House, fleeing out of fear that the home of America’s first family would be the next target. We could see smoke rising from the site of the Pentagon and later we learned of the life and death struggle that took place on flight 93, where brave passengers fought their hijackers, almost certainly saving hundreds of lives in Washington D.C. Like all Americans who lived through that horrific day, I have never forgotten the vicious attack on our country and the thousands of innocent Americans who died as they went about their business on U.S. soil. I have spent my congressional career doing my best to make sure America never experiences such a day again. As we go through a contentious political season let us never forget that the things that bind us together as Americans are greater than our petty disputes and partisan differences. The best way to honor those who died seventeen years ago is to celebrate what is good in our country, fix what is broken, defend our people and thank God every day for the freedom and blessings we enjoy as Americans.” ###
09.07.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following announcement after Speaker Paul Ryan appointed him to the House-Senate Conference Committee for H.R. 6147, the Interior, Environment, Financial Services, and General Government Appropriations Act and to the House-Senate Conference Committee for H.R. 6157, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act. For the Interior, Environment, Financial Services, and General Government Appropriations Act Committee Cole will serve alongside Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen; Reps. Robert Aderholt, Mike Simpson, Ken Calvert, Mario Diaz-Balart, Tom Graves, David Young, and John Rutherford. For the Department of Defense Appropriations Act Committee Cole will serve alongside Reps. Robert Aderholt, Kay Granger, Harold Rogers, Ken Calvert, Steve Womack and Martha Roby. “I am honored to be named to these conference committees with my colleagues, and I am eager to continue the necessary work to fund the federal government," said Cole. "As we work through these important negotiations, I will remain steadfast in my desire to ensure we responsibly fund the priorities of our nation and government and do so in an expeditious and timely manner. I’d like to thank Speaker Ryan for entrusting me with these key responsibilities. I look forward to the work ahead and ultimately the completion of these Fiscal Year 2019 appropriations bills before the start of the new fiscal year.” ###
08.26.2018	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement on the passing of Senator John McCain. “John McCain was a patriot, a genuine war hero, a dedicated public servant in and out of uniform and an American original," said Cole. "While Senator McCain and I did not always agree, I never doubted his personal and political integrity and his deep love for America and the American people." “I was proud to work with Senator McCain on many important matters, including defense and Native American issues. His knowledge of and commitment to Native American people and issues surpassed that of almost every other member of the Senate." “It was an honor for me to speak at the 2008 Republican Convention in support of Senator McCain’s presidential candidacy," continued Cole. "He was a happy warrior waging a hard campaign in a difficult year. He lost to Barack Obama, of course, but he did so with class and grace." “I will always remember how in the midst of that hard fought campaign Senator McCain put aside partisanship to work across the aisle and help pass the legislation that prevented 'the Great Recession' from becoming the second 'Great Depression.' It was an act of bipartisanship and statesmanship in the midst of a presidential campaign that has seldom been matched in American history." “John McCain was a lion of the Senate and a giant in contemporary American politics. America will miss his leadership, his bipartisanship, his patriotism and his sheer decency. My thoughts and prayers are with his loving family and his many friends and admirers at this difficult time.” ###
08.01.2018	Norman, OK – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after President Donald Trump announced his intent to nominate and appoint Dr. Kelvin Droegemeier as Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy and Assistant to the President for Science and Technology (Presidential Science Advisor). “Kelvin is an excellent choice for the role of Director at the Office of Science and Technology at the White House,” said Cole. “His illustrious background will contribute enormously to this role, and to the White House’s key initiatives for science and technology. His work with the National Science Foundation and in meteorology has contributed immensely to the high-caliber research programs at the University of Oklahoma. In addition, he has testified before the Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations Subcommittee I chair several times and has offered invaluable advice on a wide array of issues relating to scientific research and the important role the federal government has in funding such efforts. I am thrilled for his nomination, and I look forward to his confirmation in the Senate.” Droegemeier currently serves as the Vice President for Research and Regents’ Professor of Meteorology at the University of Oklahoma and as Oklahoma Cabinet Secretary of Science and Technology. He previously served on the National Science Board (four years as Vice Chairman) under the Bush and Obama Administrations. ###
07.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House passed the Conference Report to H.R. 5515, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2019. It passed in the House by a vote of 359-54 with Cole’s support. This legislation authorizes the necessary funding for the Department of Defense and is consistent with President Trumps commitment to rebuild our military and improve readiness. It supports the back-log in aircraft maintenance and improve sustainment and logistics, which is a key mission at Tinker Air Force Base. The size of the Air Force will increase by 4,700 military personnel to include Active Duty, Guard and Reserve Airmen. The Army active force will increase by 4,000 soldiers to 487,500 troops. Additionally, this bill provides for Long-Range Precision Fires and short-range air defense programs which are top priorities and key to the mission at Fort Sill. “From strategic readiness, to increases in end strength, this year’s NDAA will support the largest restoration of the U.S. military in 15 years,” said Cole. “This bill supports the war-fighter and their families. It ensures our military will be equipped and trained to counter threats around the world. Additionally, it authorizes new research and development initiatives to counter threats from our adversaries like Russia, China, Iran and North Korea. I applaud Chairman Thornberry, House Leadership and the Conference committee for their diligent work to present and pass another successful NDAA bill of which we are fundamentally committed to. The next priority now is to pass the Defense Appropriations bill on time before the September 30th deadline.” ###
07.17.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement in response to the joint press conference between U.S. President Donald Trump and President Vladimir Putin of Russia in Helsinki, Finland. “This Administration’s policy toward Russian aggression and interference around the world has been tougher than the actions taken by the three previous administrations when confronted with the same behavior by Vladimir Putin," said Cole. "The United States has launched its greatest military build-up in 15 years, and the Administration has pushed NATO nations to build up their military forces as well. Unlike President Obama, President Trump has sent lethal aid to Ukraine. Trump has twice enforced red lines in Syria that Obama drew and refused to enforce. And Congress has enacted tough sanctions against the Putin regime. None of these actions have pleased the Russians. "Clearly, the tone and substance of yesterday’s press conference involving Presidents Trump and Putin are at odds with the Administration’s own record of countering Russian misbehavior around the world. The President should make it clear that Vladimir Putin and the men and women serving in our intelligence agencies are not morally equivalent. Putin’s Russia has invaded two neighboring countries, illegally seized Crimea, cooperated with a brutal dictatorship in Syria, and tried to destabilize democratic regimes around the world. And the Putin regime appears to have been involved in the murder of critics and defectors at home and on foreign soil. Clearly, neither Vladimir Putin nor the regime he heads can be trusted, and their egregious actions must be countered at every turn.” ###
06.22.2018	Washington, D.C. – Representatives Tom Cole (OK-04) and Frank Lucas (OK-03) released the following statement after the U.S. Air Force and Boeing announced their respective agreement for the first KC-46 Tanker delivery in October 2018. Altus Air Force Base, in Lucas’ district, will be one of the first military installations to receive a delivery. “As a member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, I am thrilled that the KC-46 Tanker delivery schedule has been announced,” said Congressman Cole. "The Air Force and other services will greatly benefit from this highly capable aircraft, which is a militarized version of the Boeing 767. The ability to conduct in-flight refueling, as well as provide a cargo deck with three times as much cargo and twice as many passengers as the existing KC-135, is a tremendous improvement for our warfighters.” “The announcement of the first KC-46 Tanker deliveries is great news for Altus Air Force Base and the surrounding community,” said Congressman Lucas. "I am proud of the hardworking men and women at this base whose efforts have made Altus the best option for the KC-46A Formal Training Unit, and it is always encouraging to see projects like this generate economic growth in Oklahoma’s Third District. For 75 years, Altus AFB has played a critical role in our country’s national defense, and today we are excited to see that mission expand even further.” In October, four KC-46 Tankers will be delivered to McConnell Air Force Base in Wichita, Kansas, and then four will be delivered to Altus Air Force Base in Altus, Oklahoma. In 2016, Tinker Air Force Base broke ground on its KC-46 Sustainment Campus which will be the location for repairs, maintenance and overhauls throughout the lifecycle of the tankers. ###
06.21.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act, also known as the 2018 Farm Bill, with Cole’s support. “Protecting our farmers and ranchers is essential to the agriculture community and our nation’s economy,” said Cole. “To maintain healthy crops and produce, farmers and ranchers need protection and stability. This year’s farm bill provides those securities.” “I am pleased that this year’s farm bill includes provisions to preserve and strengthen crop insurance, which is crucial to protecting Oklahoma’s farmers and their harvests. Additionally, the Farm Bill will continue to maintain the Conservation Reserve Program, which promotes soil conservation and has been beneficial to Oklahoma’s farmers for decades.” “Farmers and ranchers are the foundation for the vitality of our nation. I’d like to thank House Leadership and Chairman Conaway for bringing forward this comprehensive legislation that will preserve and protect our nation’s farmers and ranchers. I look forward to its passage in the Senate and enactment into law.” ###
06.14.2018	Washington, D.C. – The House Appropriations Committee today released the draft fiscal year 2019 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education (LHHS) funding bill, which will be considered in subcommittee tomorrow. The legislation includes funding for programs within the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and other related agencies, including the Social Security Administration. In total, the draft bill includes $177.1 billion in discretionary funding, essentially the same as the 2018 enacted level. The bill targets investments in medical research, public health, biodefense, education, and important activities that help promote job readiness. The legislation also includes several provisions to rein in unnecessary regulations and to protect the sanctity of life. “This bill funds critical programs that will protect and save lives both now and in the future, and help prepare the next generation to be part of a productive workforce to grow our economy and provide for their families. This includes investments in vital research to cure diseases such as cancer and Alzheimer’s, job training, college preparation, and special education programs, and protections against health threats such as pandemics and bio-threats,” House Appropriations Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen said. “Once again, the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies appropriations bill prioritizes and reflects the values that Americans truly care for. For the fourth consecutive year, the bill allocates increased funds for the National Institutes of Health at $1.25 billion, for a total of $38.3 billion. These funds will greatly benefit numerous medical research programs, combat opioid abuse and support the search for cures for many cancers and diseases. Additionally, the bill includes increases for important education programs like TRIO, career and technical education, and early childhood education initiatives. Provisions related to the protection of human life are continued in this year’s bill as well. This bill is one that supports and benefits all Americans,” LHHS Subcommittee Chairman Tom Cole said. Bill Summary: Department of Labor (DoL) – The bill provides a total of $12.1 billion in discretionary appropriations for DoL – $88.8 million below the fiscal year 2018 enacted level. The bill provides robust funding for job training programs and sufficient funding for labor enforcement and benefit protection agencies to fulfill their core missions, while reducing lower-priority and underperforming programs. Employment Training Administration (ETA) – The legislation provides ETA with $9.8 billion – a decrease of $216 million below last year’s enacted level and $1 billion above the budget request. This total includes $2.8 billion for job training grants, $92.5 million for YouthBuild, and $790 million in mandatory appropriations for Federal Unemployment Benefits and Allowances, which provides job training programs for workers who lose their jobs as a result of international trade. Job Corps – The bill provides $1.7 billion for Job Corps, over the same as the 2018 enacted level and $421.7 million above the budget request. Funding is included in addition to amounts provided in fiscal year 2018 for physical facility safety and security improvements. Veterans Employment and Training Service (VETS) – The bill provides $299.7 million for VETS, which is $4.6 million above the fiscal year 2018 level and $18 million above the budget request. This includes a $50 million for the Homeless Veterans Reintegration Program and $3.5 million for a new initiative to connect transitioning service members to apprenticeship opportunities. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) – The bill includes a total of $89.2 billion for HHS, an increase of $1 billion above last year’s enacted level and $2.4 billion above the President’s budget request. The legislation targets funds to effective, proven programs that help improve the health, safety, and quality of life for Americans. Within this amount, the bill includes: National Institutes of Health (NIH) – The bill provides a total of $38.3 billion for NIH, an increase of $1.25 billion above the fiscal year 2018 enacted level and $4.1 billion above the President’s budget request. The bill provides increases for several critical research initiatives, including: $2.25 billion, a $401 million increase, for Alzheimer’s disease research, $400 million, a $100 million increase, for the Cancer Moonshot research initiative, $429 million, a $29 million increase, for the Brain Research through Application of Innovative Neurotechnologies (BRAIN) initiative, $437 million, a $147 million increase, for the All of Us research initiative, $130 million, an increase of $30 million, for research to develop a universal influenza vaccine, $528 million, an increase of $15 million, for research on Combating Antibiotic-Resistant Bacteria, $366 million, an increase of $15 million, for Institutional Development Awards, and $12.6 million for the Gabriella Miller “Kids First” pediatric cancer research initiative. The legislation expands support for research related to opioids and pain management, as well as for the Down syndrome research initiative established in fiscal year 2018. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) – The legislation includes a total of $7.6 billion for CDC – $663 million below the fiscal year 2018 enacted level and $2 billion above the President’s budget request. After accounting for the transfer of the Strategic National Stockpile to ASPR and the one-time facilities funding in fiscal year 2018, the legislation provides an increase of $427 million for CDC on a comparable program level. This includes $848 million in transfers from the Prevention and Public Health Fund. The bill also continues the longstanding prohibition against using federal funds to advocate or promote gun control. The bill includes $300 million to establish an Infectious Disease Rapid Response Reserve Fund to allow the Secretary to quickly respond to a pandemic, as well as funding for initiatives proposed in the President’s Budget to continue efforts to track children and families affected by the Zika virus and to address infectious disease in high-risk areas, especially those disproportionately affected by the opioid crisis. The legislation expands support for preparedness grants to States, chronic disease prevention efforts, and programs that address the opioid use and opioid-related injury. Substance Abuse and Mental Health Administration (SAMHSA) – The bill funds SAMHSA at $5.6 billion – $448 million above the fiscal year 2018 enacted level and $2.1 billion above the President’s request. The legislation maintains a prohibition on federal funds for the purchase of syringes or sterile needles, but allows communities with rapid increases in cases of HIV and Hepatitis to access federal funds for other activities, including substance-use counseling and treatment referrals. SAMHSA funding includes: $2.4 billion for the Substance Abuse Block Grant, $500 million above the fiscal year 2018 enacted level and $500 million above the fiscal year 2019 request. $99 million for Criminal Justice activities – $10 million above last year and $21 million above the budget request – including $80 million specifically for drug courts. The bill includes $3.85 billion to address substance use, including opioid and heroin abuse, which is $36 million above the fiscal year 2018 enacted level and $1.75 billion above the budget request. This amount includes $1 billion for State opioid response grants, along with funding for programs authorized in the 21st Century Cures Act and the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act. Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) – The bill includes $6.5 billion for HRSA, which is $196 million below the fiscal year 2018 enacted level and $3 billion below the budget request. The amount includes: $325 million for the Children’s Hospital Graduate Medical Education, an increase of $10 million above the fiscal year 2018 enacted level. $110 million for the Healthy Start program, the same as the fiscal year 2018 enacted level. $655 million for the Maternal and Child Health Block Grant, an increase of $3 million over the fiscal year 2018 enacted level. An elimination of all funding for the controversial Family Planning (Title X) Program, saving taxpayers nearly $300 million. Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) – The recommendation provides $334 million for AHRQ, which is the same as the fiscal year 2018 enacted level. The budget request proposed to merge most of AHRQ’s activities into NIH. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) – The recommendation provides $3.5 billion for CMS administrative expenses, which is $168 million below the fiscal year 2018 enacted level and $42 million below the fiscal year 2019 request. This funding level is sufficient to maintain core operations and services. The bill does not include additional funding to implement ObamaCare programs, prohibits funds for the “Navigators” program, and prohibits the collection of user fees from the Health Insurance Exchanges. Administration for Children and Families (ACF) – The bill provides $22.9 billion in discretionary funding for ACF, which is $60 million above the fiscal year 2018 enacted level and $7.6 billion above the budget request. Early childhood programs receive an increase of $50 million. Head Start receives $9.9 billion, a $50 million increase, and the Child Care and Development Block Grant receives $5.2 billion, the same as the fiscal year 2018 enacted level. The bill maintains funding for Preschool Development Grants at $250 million, the same as the fiscal year 2018 enacted level. The bill provides a $35 million increase for the Community Services Block Grant, for a total of $780 million for Community Service programs. Administration for Community Living (ACL) – The bill funds ACL at $2.2 billion, which is $10 million above the fiscal year 2018 enacted level and $363 million above the budget request. This amount includes: $897 million for senior nutrition programs, of which $246 million is for the Meals on Wheels program. Public Health and Social Services Emergency Fund (PHSSEF) – The bill provides $2.8 billion for PHSSEF, an increase of $860 million above the fiscal year 2018 level and $509 million above the budget request. The bill shifts funding for the Strategic National Stockpile from CDC to PHSSEF. The total funding level includes: $587 million, an increase of $50 million, for the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA), $780 million, an increase of $70 million, for Project BioShield, for the acquisition of medical countermeasures, $710 million, an increase of $100 million, for the Strategic National Stockpile, $280 million, an increase of $15 million, for Hospital Preparedness Program grants, and $62 million, an increase of $5 million, to expand and improve training for the National Disaster Medical System. Department of Education – The bill funds the Department of Education at nearly $71 billion, which is $43 million above the fiscal year 2018 enacted level. The total funding level includes: Special Education – The bill includes $12.3 billion for IDEA special education grants to states, an increase of $50 million over the fiscal year 2018 enacted level, which will maintain the federal share of special education funding to states. Student Support and Academic Achievement State Grants – The bill includes $1.2 billion, $100 million above the fiscal year 2018 level, for grants that provide flexible funds to states and school districts to expand access, improve school conditions, and increase the use of technology. This robust level of funding will support school safety activities, including student mental health services, bullying prevention, and professional development for personnel in crisis management. Pell Grants – The maximum Pell Grant award is maintained at $6,095, funded by a combination of discretionary and mandatory funds. Impact Aid – The bill provides over $1.4 billion for Impact Aid, an increase of $52 million above the current enacted level. Charter Schools – The bill increases funding for charter schools by $50 million, to a total of $450 million. TRIO and GEAR UP programs, which help first-generation college students prepare for, enter, and complete college, are increased by $60 million and $10 million, respectively, bringing TRIO programs to a total of $1.06 billion and GEAR UP to a total of $360 million. Career, Technical and Adult Education - The bill provides $1.9 billion for career, technical and adult education programs, an increase of nearly $115 million over fiscal year 2018, to ensure that all students have the opportunity to continue to develop their skills after high school and enter into good‑paying jobs. Other Related Agencies – Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS) – The bill includes $1.06 billion for CNCS, the same as last year’s enacted level. Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB) – The bill provides an advance appropriation of $445 million for CPB for fiscal year 2021, which is the same level of advance funding provided in fiscal year 2018. National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) – The bill includes $261.3 million for NLRB – a decrease of $12.9 million below last year’s enacted level. The legislation includes two policy provisions to stop the NLRB’s harmful anti-business regulations. The provisions include: A provision that prohibits the NLRB from applying its revised “joint-employer” standard in new cases and proceedings; A provision that prevents the NLRB from exercising jurisdiction over Tribal governments. Social Security Administration (SSA) – The bill provides $12.4 billion to administer SSA activities, which is $332 million below the fiscal year 2018 enacted level, and $164 million above the budget request. This funding level is sufficient to ensure those served by the program receive efficient and timely assistance and service. Defunding ObamaCare – The legislation contains several provisions to stop the implementation of ObamaCare – including prohibiting the use of any new discretionary funding to implement ObamaCare. Cuts and Terminations – The legislation cuts or terminates several lower-priority, unproven, or unnecessary programs. For example, some of these cuts include: A cut of $67.6 million for the International Labor Affairs Bureau as requested in the budget; A cut of $80.6 million for the Employment Service Grants A cut of $168 million for CMS program management; A cut of $12.9 million for the NLRB. Several programs were also terminated; some of these include: CDC Climate Change program ($10 million), consistent with the budget request, Teen Pregnancy Prevention Grants ($108 million), consistent with the budget request, Regional Partnership Grants ($20 million), consistent with the budget request, Kinship Navigator Grants ($20 million), consistent with the budget request, Project AWARE State Grants ($71 million), consistent with the budget request, Screening, Brief Intervention, Referral, and Treatment ($28 million), consistent with the budget request, Certified Community Behavioral Health Clinics ($100 million), consistent with the budget request, and Health Careers Opportunity Program ($14 million), consistent with the budget request. For the text of the draft FY 2019 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education bill, please visit: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AP/AP07/20180615/108431/BILLS-115-SC-AP-FY2019-LaborHHS-LaborBill.pdf
06.13.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after H.R. 2606, the Stigler Act Amendment of 2017, was passed by the House Natural Resources Committee. This legislation amends the Stigler Act of 1947, which restricts Native American allotted land to only persons of ½ degree of Native American blood. The Dawes Act of 1887 authorized the federal government to survey tribal lands and divide them into allotted parcels for individual Native Americans. Title to these allotment parcels was set forth in the “Stigler Act of 1947.” The Stigler Act provides that, upon probate, if the heirs and devisees of an original allottee from the Five Tribes (Chickasaw, Choctaw, Seminole, Creek and Cherokee) have passed out of ½ degree Native American blood, the allotment loses its “restricted free” status. Restricted land is not subject to state taxation. Federal law does not dictate a minimum Native American blood degree requirement for any other tribe. The Stigler Act Amendment of 2017 seeks to amend the original Stigler Act, and remove the ½ degree requirement of Native American blood. In doing so, it would provide the opportunity for heirs and devisees to take title to the land, and allow the parcel to maintain its “restricted” status. This legislation will also create parity in federal law in the treatment of Native American-allotted land by removing minimum blood degree requirement for solely the Five Tribes. “I am pleased that the Stigler Act was agreed to and passed through the House Natural Resources Committee,” said Cole. “Amending the Stigler Act will allow for past precedent to be current with the realities of Native-owned land. By expanding the blood lineage degree, the amendment will support the preservation of the rights and legacies that Native Americans are entitled to, as well as their inheritance. I look forward to supporting the Stigler Act Amendment of 2017 on the House Floor for passage.” ###
05.24.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 5515, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2019. It passed in the House by a vote of 351-66 with Cole’s support. This legislation provides the necessary funding for the Department of Defense and is consistent with President Trumps commitment to rebuild our military and improve readiness. It supports the back-log in aircraft maintenance and improve sustainment and logistics, which is a key mission at Tinker Air Force Base. The size of the Air Force will increase by 4,700 military personnel to include Active Duty, Guard and Reserve Airmen. The Army active force will increase by 4,000 soldiers to 487,500 troops. Additionally, this bill provides for Long-Range Precision Fires and short-range air defense programs which are top priorities and key to the mission at Fort Sill. “It is a fundamental responsibility of Congress to ensure that our nation’s military has the necessary resources to rebuild our capabilities and readiness to meet the challenges ahead,” said Cole. “For the 57th consecutive year, the House passed one of the most robust and comprehensive pieces of NDAA legislation last week. I was proud to put my support behind it. “This year’s NDAA authorizes funding at $708.1 billion in discretionary funding. There will be increases in the size of all branches of the military, as well as increased procurement of additional aircraft, ships, and weapons systems. Investments in will be made to advance technologies that will reform how our military engages with friends and foes around the world. Furthermore, it includes a 2.6% pay raise for the troops, the highest in nine years. “While our military is strong, our competitive edge continues to erode as our competitors move to close the gap. This bill provides major organizational changes to how the Department of Defense is organized and how it purchases new weapon systems and outfits our military. “I was pleased to support this broadly bipartisan legislation on the House Floor, and I look forward to its passage in the Senate and its enactment into law.” ###
05.18.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), Chairman of the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement after Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Alex Azar announced updated HHS regulations regarding Title X funding. “Protecting unborn children and ensuring the safety of minors are fundamental responsibilities that I take very seriously as Chairman with jurisdiction over the Title X Family Planning Program,” said Cole. “I strongly support Secretary Azar and the Trump Administration’s proposal to implement updated regulations governing Title X immediately. Title X regulations were last modified in 2000 under then-President Clinton and, unfortunately, there has been grave concern that these changes deviated significantly from the authorizing statute. The proposal made today by the Trump Administration will return day-to-day operations of family planning programs to greater fidelity with the original law. “These regulations will first ensure that minors are protected from sex trafficking, abuse and coercive relationships by better enforcing existing requirements carried in the annual appropriations bill I oversee. To ensure compliance with the statutory mandate that abortion shall not be used as a method of birth control, the proposed regulations will also require a clear separation, both physically and financially, of any family planning grantees that also provide abortions. “Finally, I am extremely pleased that the proposed regulations will allow health care and other professionals to practice in accordance with their consciences by no longer requiring them to refer for abortions. “I commend President Trump and Secretary Azar for their leadership on this important issue, and I look forward to continuing to work alongside them to preserve and protect the right to life and the right to follow one’s conscience.” ###
05.08.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the Office of Management and Budget released its proposal for a $15 billion rescissions package. This proposal is intended to rein in government spending and eliminate unobligated balances. “Reducing excessive spending and finding places where cuts can be made is critical to addressing the federal debt and long-term spending problems,” said Cole. “I support President Trump’s initiative to tackle some of our current spending problems through a historic rescissions package. It is important to note that this bill does not violate the budget agreement negotiated by the Administration and Republican leadership in the both the Senate and the House in February of this year. “As an appropriator, I know the Appropriations Committee works diligently to ensure that taxpayer funds are responsibly used and are directed for good purposes. However, many government programs have money that has been appropriated in the past but never spent. President Trump’s rescissions package addresses those unused funds in programs that are either outdated or have fulfilled their obligation. “Programs like the ‘Railroad Unemployment Insurance Extended Benefits’ has $133 million dollars of unobligated balances since the program expired in 2012. The ‘Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Loan Program’ has not extended a new loan since 2011, yet has a balance of $4.3 billion dollars in unused funds. Taking those funds back will be helpful in reducing the debt and highlights the importance of appropriating money responsibly in the future. “Finding ways to properly spend federal funds is key to balancing our national budget and preventing wasteful spending. I look forward to working with the Administration to move this rescissions package forward and to continue to establish responsible spending habits.” ###
05.08.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after President Trump announced the termination of the United States’ participation in the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action with Iran, also known as the Iran Nuclear Deal. “I support President Trump’s decision to rescind the United States’ participation in the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action with Iran,” said Cole. “This deal was bad from the onset – it was negotiated by a weak Administration and would have allowed Iran to become nuclear capable. It is worth noting that bipartisan majorities in the Senate and House opposed this agreement from its inception. “President Trump signed a presidential memorandum to reinstate economic sanctions against the Iranian regime or any nation that helps Iran pursue a nuclear path. In addition to sanctions, I support the White House’s statement that we will continue to work with our allies to find a comprehensive and lasting solution to the Iranian nuclear threat. Iran must stop its nuclear weapons development and delivery system program, halt human rights abuses, end cyberattacks and terminate support for terrorist groups. “I look forward to working with the Administration to end Iran’s quest to be a nuclear power and ensure Iran will coexist peacefully with his neighbors.” ###
04.27.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the passage of H.R. 4, the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018. The bill was passed in the House by a vote of 393-13 with Cole’s support. The FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 reauthorizes the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) through 2023. “The Federal Aviation Administration plays a critical role in the safety and transparency of our air travel, and I am pleased that it was passed today with broad support,” said Cole. “The FAA also has a significant impact on Oklahoma’s economy and workforce as one of the largest employers in the state. “Furthermore, I am pleased that the proposal to privatize Air Traffic Control (ATC) was not included in the final bill. A privatized ATC would be unfair and would endanger the transparency and standards of the aviation industry. Privatization would also pose harm to the federal workforce, especially to facilities like the Mike Monroney Aeronautical Center in Oklahoma, which employs 6,200 federal workers. “Congress has always provided key oversight of the FAA and ATC to keep our skies safe and efficient. Because of its balanced approach to regulation and operational standards, the FAA has made our skies the safest and most reliable airspace in the world.” ###
04.17.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement on the passing of former First Lady Barbara Bush. “I am deeply saddened to learn of the passing of former First Lady and matriarch of the Bush family, Barbara Pierce Bush,” said Cole. “I have had the opportunity over numerous years to interact with the late First Lady. Like all those who have had that privilege, I came away impressed by her wit, wisdom, strength and compassion. “Barbara Bush was the beloved wife of one president and the cherished mother of another. But she was equally proud of every member of her family. Known affectionately within her family as both the ‘Silver Fox’ and ‘The Enforcer,’ she was both wily and tough. “Every American, regardless of party, admired Barbara Bush, and appreciated the manner in which she discharged her duties as First Lady. We will all miss her.” “My thoughts and prayers are with President George H.W. Bush, who has lost his lifelong companion, and with the entire Bush family. America grieves with each and every one of them for the loss of a wonderful spouse, a devoted mother, grandmother and great-grandmother, and a role model to Americans of every generation.” ###
04.15.2018	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after University of Oklahoma President, David Boren, suffered a minor stroke. “I was shocked to hear the news that David Boren had suffered a minor stroke yesterday afternoon. But David is a fighter, so I am pleased to hear that my friend is in good spirits,” said Cole. “David and his family are in my prayers as he continues to recover.” ###
04.13.2018	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement in response to the strike by the United States, Great Britian and France against military targets in Syria. "President Trump and our allies were correct to strike Syrian targets in response to the illegal and immoral use of chemical weapons against its own citizens by the regime of Bashar al-Assad," said Cole. "The President was also right to warn Russia and Iran to cease supporting the actions of the brutal Assad regime. "Two years ago the Syrian regime pledged to forgo the use of chemical weapons, and Russia guarnteed that these commitments would be met. The Assad regime has broken its word, and Russia has failed to meet its obligations. Given those facts, America and its allies were justified to respond with military force. "I am proud that President Trump has used American power to enforce international law and the humanitarian instincts of the civilized world. As the President noted, the Assad regime must live within the rules of international law, and Russia and Iran must cease supporting the immoral tactics of Assad's brutal regime. "More action may be needed in the days ahead. I am confident that the President and his advisors will continue to uphold and enforce international law in a dangerous world," Cole concluded. ###
04.11.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after House Speaker Paul Ryan (WI-01) announced his intention to retire from Congress in January 2019. “I have enormous respect for Speaker Ryan’s decision to announce his retirement at the end of this Congressional term,” said Cole. “In typical Paul Ryan fashion, he was honest, open, direct and compelling with his reasons to leave. No one can quarrel with his desire to spend more time with his wife and children. “While I respect Speaker Ryan’s decision, he will certainly be missed by the country, this Congress and the Republican Conference. Paul Ryan is a visionary leader, a committed conservative and a master of the legislative process. His tenure as been marked by exceptional accomplishments – the largest tax cut and reform in a generation; the most regulatory reform for any Congress in the modern age; the most substantial defense buildup in 15 years; the end of the individual mandate in Obamacare – and a host of other important legislative accomplishments. “Paul Ryan will leave Congress with his reputation not only intact, but enhanced,” continued Cole. “He is not only the best Speaker I’ve had the opportunity to serve with, he’s also the finest person. Even Paul’s political opponents readily concede that he’s a person of absolute integrity, deep sincerity and of profound decency. He will be sorely missed as Speaker of the House. “I wish Paul and his family the very best going forward. It is my hope and sincere expectation that he will re-enter public life in the future and will continue to contribute to the well-being and success of the United States of America.” ###
03.26.2018	Norman, OK – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the University of Oklahoma’s announcement naming James Gallogly as the incoming President of the University. Gallogly is poised to succeed long-serving President David Boren. Gallogly is the former CEO of LyondellBasell and is a graduate of the University of Oklahoma College of Law (1977). “The role of President is one I know the University of Oklahoma takes very seriously,” said Cole. “I am confident that James Gallogly is the appropriate choice to continue the high standard of excellence that the university upholds. “Although President Boren will be sorely missed, I am confident that Mr. Gallogly will do an exceptional job in fostering the success that the university has come to enjoy under President Boren’s distinguished tenure. The institution is very strong and extremely dynamic. It will adapt and thrive well under Mr. Gallogly’s leadership. “I’d like to congratulate the Board of Regents on their selection, and I look forward to working with Mr. Gallogly to continue the University of Oklahoma’s distinction as an institution with strong academics, unique research programs, quality education and much more.” ###
03.23.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) announced the following schedule of town hall meetings for the Easter recess break at the end of March and beginning of April. March 27, 2018 – 12:00 noon CST Pauls Valley, OK Donald W. Reynolds Center 1005 North Willow Pauls Valley, OK 73075 March 29, 2018 – 12:00 noon CST Moore, OK Moore Technology Center; South Penn Campus (Conference Rooms ABC) 13301 S Pennsylvania Ave. Oklahoma City, OK 73170 April 3, 2018 – 12:00 noon CST Walters, OK Cotton Electric Community Center 302 N. Broadway St. Walters, OK 73572 If you have any questions regarding the upcoming town halls, please contact the Norman office at (405) 329-6500.
03.22.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), Chairman of the Labor, HHS, Education and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the Fiscal Year 2018 omnibus spending bill by a vote of 256-157 with Cole’s support. This legislation includes all 12 appropriations measures, and funds the federal government, agencies and programs for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2018 through September 30, 2018. The omnibus spending measure sets total federal funding at $1.3 trillion and includes an additional $80 billion for national defense, the largest increase in 15 years. In addition, this legislation directs money to fighting the opioid crisis, improving national security, bolstering medical research, protecting the unborn and promoting school safety. “After passing multiple continuing resolutions throughout this past year, I am pleased that this omnibus spending bill has passed, and the House has fulfilled its commitment to the American people by fully funding the government for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2018,” said Cole. “This bill reflects the priorities that will protect all Americans and enhance our nation’s health and economic prosperity. “I am also pleased that the Labor, HHS, Education and Related Agencies provisions, which I oversee, has been fully funded at a total of $177.1 billion,” continued Cole. “Furthermore, for the third consecutive year, the National Institutes of Health received a substantial increase ($3 billion) to be directed toward several critical research initiatives, including Alzheimer’s disease, pediatric cancer, a universal flu vaccine, and Down Syndrome, among others. “The Labor, HHS, Education and Related Agencies portion also directs increases in spending toward TRIO and GEAR-UP, both important programs aimed at helping first-generation college students prepare and enter college. The TRIO program is increased by $60 million for a total of $1.01 billion, and the GEAR UP program is increased by $10 million, for a total of $350 million. Impact Aid, which helps dozens of Oklahoma school districts, is increased by $86 million for a total of more than $1.4 billion. “Despite divisions, both sides of the aisle have the responsibility to deliver this legislation for the American people so that the federal government runs efficiently and effectively. Neither side got everything it wanted, but the end product reflects a broadly supported compromise. A majority of Republicans and Democrats voted for this bill. President Trump urged its passage and has promised to sign this legislation. As we begin to consider funding for Fiscal Year 2019, it is imperative that Congress remain committed to the return to regular order in the appropriations process.” For detailed information regarding the Fiscal Year 2018 omnibus, click here. For detailed information regarding the Labor, HHS, Education and Related Agencies provision in the Fiscal Year 2018 omnibus, click here. ###
03.16.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after learning of the passing of Representative Louise Slaughter (NY-25) today. “It was with great sadness that I learned of the passing of my good friend and Ranking Member on the House Rules Committee, Louise Slaughter of Rochester, New York,” said Cole. “I had the opportunity to work with Louise on the Rules Committee early in my career and over the last three years as Vice Chair of the committee. She was the consummate professional. She was principled, a hard worker, determined and very tough. No one fought harder for her district, her constituents and her party. “Even though we were on different sides of the political aisle, I found her to be a wonderful colleague – wise, witty and compassionate. I will miss her as a colleague, a leader and a friend.” ###
03.16.2018	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole released the following announcement to invite Oklahoma High School students to attend the Fourth District’s Academy Days to learn about each of the military academies and the application process. "I would like to encourage anyone who would be interested in attending one of our esteemed military academies to participate in this event," Cole said. "Not only will you learn more about what each academy has to offer, you will also be able to have one on one discussions with representatives from the academies." There will be a video presentation and a short speech from each of the representatives from the academies and a question and answer session. Also attending the event will be a representative from Cole’s office to help explain and answer questions about the application process. Prospective students can attend any of the following sessions: Saturday, April 7th 10:00 AM – 12:00 PM CST The Station at Central Park 700 South Broadway Ave Moore, OK 73160 Saturday, April 14th 10:00 AM – 12:00 PM CST Great Plans Technology Center Auditorium, Bldg 100 4500 W. Lee Blvd. Lawton, OK 73505 Saturday, April 14th 3:00 PM – 5:00 PM CST Ardmore Convention Center 2401 North Rockford Rd. Ardmore, OK 73401 For questions, please contact Amber Savage at amber.savage@mail.house.gov ###
03.13.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after President Trump announced the appointment of CIA Director Mike Pompeo to serve as Secretary of State. Previously, Rex Tillerson held the role of Secretary of State. “As President Trump said, Rex Tillerson is a very good man,” said Cole. “He should be honored for his service to the country. “However, it is important that the Secretary of State reflects and advances the views of the President and his administration. To do that effectively, the President must have absolute confidence in the Secretary. Clearly, the President has that confidence in Mike Pompeo. “As one of Mike’s former colleagues and many friends in the House of Representatives, I am pleased with the President’s choice for Secretary of State. Mike is a graduate of West Point and Harvard Law, and has had a distinguished career in the military, private business and in Congress. “Mike’s performance as CIA Director has been exemplary. I believe that he will be an exceptional Secretary of State. I look forward to working with him in his new capacity.” ###
02.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement announcing the hiring of Joshua Grogis as his Chief of Staff based in his Washington, D.C. office. “I am very pleased to announce that Josh has accepted the position to serve as my Chief of Staff,” said Cole. “Josh served me previously for many years in a variety of capacities, starting with his first job with me at the NRCC and working his way up be my District Director in 2012. He has been a reliable and diligent member of my team, and a humble servant not only for the Fourth District, but for the entire state of Oklahoma. I am confident that under his leadership, my staff and I are in good hands.” Grogis began his career with Cole at the NRCC in 2008 as Cole’s Executive Assistant, during Cole's service as Chairman. Later, Grogis served as a Legislative Assistant in Cole’s Washington, D.C. office, then continued to serve as a Field Representative and eventually District Director in the Oklahoma office. Grogis has spent the past two and half years in the private sector. “I am honored to have the opportunity to serve Congressman Cole, his staff, and the people of Oklahoma again,” said Grogis. “I am incredibly humbled and grateful for the opportunity. I look forward to all the work ahead and being part of this incredibly talented team again.” ###
02.09.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) announced today the names of 17 students who have been nominated from the Fourth District of Oklahoma for entry into one of America’s prestigious military academies. The United States Service Academies provide for the undergraduate education and training of commissioned officers for the United States Armed Forces. The United States Service Academies which receive congressionally nominated students include: The U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy and the U.S. Naval Academy. The nomination process is highly competitive. Applicants are evaluated for academic performance and standing, including class rank, SAT/ACT scores and school records. Other criteria which are considered by Representative Cole and his Academy Nominations Board, includes athletics, physical fitness, extracurricular activities, recommendations and leadership potential. Upon Congressional nomination, students become eligible for consideration to receive an appointment to the service academy (or academies) to which they applied. “It is a privilege every year to nominate outstanding and exceptional students from the Fourth District to our nations’ service academies,” said Cole. “These students are leaders in their communities and have demonstrated remarkable qualities that make them worthy applicants to these institutions. I greatly admire their passion for service and commitment to duty, and I am confident that they represent the best and brightest of Oklahoma.” The list below includes the names, hometowns and high school information of the students, as well as the academies to which they were nominated. At this time, the students' applications are being considered by the academies' selection committees for potential admission. Many of the students received nominations to multiple academies. U.S. Air Force Academy Mr. Anthony Corpuz (Oklahoma City, Westmoore High School) Miss Madelyn Duckworth (Midwest City, Choctaw High School) Mr. Juan Fuentes (Oklahoma City, AFC, Tinker Air Force Base) Mr. Jake Martell (Oklahoma City, Westmoore High School) Mr. Enrique Garcia Orozco (Tuttle, Oklahoma School of Science and Mathematics) Miss Mckenzi Pettit (Lawton, Eisenhower High School) Mr. Keaton Rogers (Tuttle, Amber-Pocasset High School) Miss Grace Rudkin (Moore, Southmoore High School) Miss Cameo Stapleton (Norman, Norman North High School) Mr. Kade Wilson (Moore, Homeschool) U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Miss Sarah Evans (Choctaw, Choctaw High School) Mr. Kade Wilson (Moore, Homeschool) U.S. Military Academy at West Point Mr. Trevor Lynn (Norman, The Academy of Classical Christian Studies) Miss Madison Oliver (Mustang, Mustang High School) Mr. Keaton Rogers (Tuttle, Amber-Pocasset High School) Miss Grace Rudkin (Moore, Southmoore High School) Miss Avery Stout (Midwest City, Carl Albert High School) Mr. Enrique Thompson (Tuttle, Oklahoma School of Science and Mathematics) U.S. Naval Academy Mr. Ethan Brockmeier (Norman, Norman North High School) Mr. Anthony Corpuz (Oklahoma City, Westmoore High School) Mr. Trevor Lynn (Norman, The Academy of Classical Christian Studies) Mr. Jake Martell (Oklahoma City, Westmoore High School) Mr. Enrique Garcia Orozco (Tuttle, Oklahoma School of Science and Mathematics) Miss Mckenzi Pettit (Lawton, Eisenhower High School) Miss Grace Rudkin (Moore, Southmoore High School) Miss Avery Stout (Midwest City, Carl Albert High School) Mr. Cody Watson (Tuttle, Tuttle High School) Mr. Kade Wilson (Moore, Homeschool) ###
02.05.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole released the following statement on the passing of his Chief of Staff, Sean Murphy. “It is with great sadness that I announce the loss of my Chief of Staff, Sean Murphy," said Cole. "Sean passed suddenly of natural causes. “It is impossible to overstate how much my staff and I will miss Sean. He was a devoted husband, a loving father and the best Chief of Staff any Member of Congress could ever have. A skilled Colorado political operative before he became a congressional staffer, Sean worked with my classmate and good friend Bob Beauprez for four years, and then joined my staff in 2007. Sean was much more than just an enormously capable Chief of Staff. He was a wise counselor, a good friend and a generous mentor to dozens of people who have worked in my congressional office and my political campaigns. He will be missed by all who knew him, but especially me. “My staff and I ask that you remember Sean, his wife and his three children in your prayers.” ###
01.30.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after President Donald Trump delivered his first State of the Union speech. “President Trump delivered a strong, visionary, unifying and optimistic speech tonight," said Cole. "In his first year as President, he has enjoyed many signature accomplishments, particularly with respect to the economy. The policies of this Administration and this Republican Congress have driven unemployment rates to their lowest levels in decades, the stock market has grown more than 5000 points since President Trump took office and our tax and regulatory policies have fueled economic prosperity and individual opportunities for our fellow citizens. “The President has also made America safer by aggressively confronting North Korea, dismantling ISIS and urging our European allies to increase their efforts in terms of our common defense. “Despite this impressive list of successful initiatives, President Trump has laid out an aggressive agenda for the coming year. The President wants to continue to strengthen our armed forces, reform our broken immigration system and make badly needed investments in America’s infrastructure. I believe this approach will continue to make our nation stronger and safer. “These are goals that we all can and should support. I look forward to working with the President and my colleagues on both sides of the aisle as we address the nation’s pressing problems and build on the success from President Trump’s first year.” ###
01.30.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the Department of Defense Appropriations funding legislation for Fiscal Year 2018. The Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2018 (H.R. 695) was passed by a vote of 250-166, with Cole’s support. This is the third time the House of Representatives has passed a Fiscal Year 2018 Department of Defense funding bill – the first in July 2017 (H.R. 3219) and the second in September 2017 (H.R. 3354). The Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2018, provides $659.2 billion in full-year funding for Fiscal Year 2018, with base funding at $584 billion and Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) funding at $75.1 billion. The bill also does away with automatic budget cuts for the Department of Defense outlined by the Budget Control Act (Public Law 112-25). “Funding for our troops and our national security should remain a top priority, and once again we find ourselves acting on that priority in the House,” said Cole. “It is time for Democrats in the Senate to stop kicking the proverbial can down the road. The military must have certainty to plan for and train to counter any number of threats. The more this funding is delayed, the more our national security is at risk. A return to regular order in the appropriations process couldn’t be more urgent.” ###
01.29.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11), Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, announced his intention to retire at the end of the 115th Congress. “Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen’s announcement of his retirement from Congress at the end of this term is a tremendous loss,” said Cole. “Throughout his 24 year career in a federal office, Chairman Frelinghuysen has served his district and the American people with great distinction and integrity. He will be missed by both sides of the aisle in Congress and especially by his colleagues on the Appropriations Committee. "Before he concludes his career in the House, however, Chairman Frelinghuysen still has much to do. It will be up to him to negotiate an omnibus for Fiscal Year 2018 with the Administration, the Senate and our Democratic colleagues in the House. "In addition, he will soon begin work on the Appropriations bills for Fiscal Year 2019. I look forward to working with him in my capacity as Chairman of Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations Subcommittee as he completes this important work.” ###
01.20.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the Senate failed to pass the continuing resolution legislation that would continue government operations and funding, the Children’s Health Insurance Program funding and military funding. The failure to pass has resulted in a government shutdown. “History shows that government shutdowns never work,” said Cole. “The party and the people who provoke them are roundly condemned by the public. You can never win when you make the American people lose. “It is a shocking and disgraceful decision by Senate Democrats to shut down the government of the United States in order to extract concessions in key negotiations. And it is both shameful and unacceptable. I applaud President Trump for not negotiating on immigration until the government reopens. It is my hope that Democrats will come to their senses and put the best interests of the American people and the security of the United States ahead of partisan objectives. “In the meantime, I will stay in Washington, D.C., working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle until the government is fully functional and the normal legislative process resumes.” ###
01.11.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House passed S. 139, the FISA Amendments Reauthorization Act. This legislation reauthorizes and reforms Title VII of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) until December 31, 2023. It allows foreign intelligence surveillance activities to target non-U.S. persons who are not located in the United States to identify terrorists and other persons of interests. It has been an effective and critical tool in protecting the United States’ national security. “I am extremely pleased that the legislation extending section 702 authority, which is critical to our national security, has been adopted by the House and passed, with my support,” said Cole. “S. 139 allows the federal government to track foreign terrorists on foreign soil. These surveillance activities are crucial to protecting American citizens and our troops stationed abroad. “I am also satisfied that there are sufficient measures included in the legislation to protect the privacy of American citizens. We have not seen any abuse of section 702 authority by intelligence agencies and law enforcement in the past, and I am confident that they will continue to perform with the highest professional standards in the future. “The debate over the section 702 authority has been good and healthy. I believe Congress has struck the right balance between protecting civil liberties and protecting our nation’s safety and security in this year’s FISA reauthorization.” ###
01.10.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House passed S. 140, the Tribal Labor, Water and Lands Package. This legislative measure packages three critical bills that promote tribal self-governance over tribal resources, lands and business regulations. Included in this package is the Tribal Labor Sovereignty Act, of which Cole is an original co-sponsor of. The Tribal Labor Sovereignty Act of 2017 ensures that the National Labor Relations Act does not apply to any enterprise or institution owned and operated by an Indian tribe and located on tribal land. It prevents the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) from using wrongful jurisdiction over tribal businesses that operate on tribal lands. This will allow tribes to establish their own labor relations standards, uphold tribal sovereignty and protect self-governance on tribal lands. “For almost 14 years, my colleagues and I have fought to protect tribes from the federal overreach of the National Labor Relations Board and to return their original exempt status from the National Labor Relations Act established more than 80 years ago,” said Cole. “The subjective practices that the NLRB has imposed on tribal businesses the past 14 years severely violates the right that tribes have to self-governance and sovereignty. The passage of the Tribal Labor Sovereignty Act will restore the authority previously afforded to tribes to self-govern commercial activity on their own lands, as well as protect and respect their right to sovereignty.” To read more on the Tribal Labor Sovereignty Act of 2017, please click here. ###
12.21.2017	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the passage of H.R. 4667, Emergency Disaster Aid Package and the Senate Amendment to H.R. 1370, Further Continuing Resolution. "I am pleased that the House has delivered on their promise to continue to help our neighbors in Puerto Rico, Texas and Florida after a tough year of devastating natural disasters, and that we have also avoided shutting down the government," said Cole. "Although another continuing resolution is not the ideal funding measure, a government shutdown would have been much worse and more costlier. It is now up to the Senate to follow through on that same promise and help keep our government running efficiently until January 19th. "For the time being, it is my hope that Congress can find appropriate budget levels for the next fiscal year so that the appropriations process can return to regular order. It is imperative that our federal dollars are being spent efficiently so that our national security, federal agencies and government programs can continue to serve the American taxpayer well." ###
12.19.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the passage of the Conference Report for H.R. 1, The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The Conference Report passed in the House by a vote of 227-203 with Cole’s support. “The passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is a historic vote to overhaul our nation’s tax code," said Cole. "This is the first major reform in 31 years. I applaud Speaker Ryan, House Leadership, Chairman Brady and the Conference members for bringing forward a comprehensive and working tax bill, and achieving this major legislative accomplishment. “Under this reform, the standard deduction most Americans use is doubled – to $12,000 and $24,000 for individuals and married couples, respectively. The additional child tax credit is increased to $2000, and becomes fully refundable up to $1400 and phases out for families making over $400,000. Further, to benefit all individual filers, the top rate for each bracket is lowered. Most American will receive a tax cut. “This bill also represents a major tax reduction for businesses. We have lowered the corporate tax rate significantly from 35% to 21%, bringing businesses back to the United States and making our economy more competitive on the global stage. Every economic study shows that the reduction in the corporate rate will deliver economic growth and job opportunities. “After substantial debate over the legislation, my colleagues on the Conference Committee were able to affect significant improvements and changes in the original House bill. To point out a few, the medical expense deduction was retained and the mortgage interest deduction will be allowed on home purchases below $750,000. Furthermore, I am pleased that the Conference Committee removed harmful language that would have forced thousands of graduate students to face significant yet unintended tax bills on tuition waivers. “No tax reform bill is perfect and there are features in the current legislation which I will work to improve. However, on balance, this legislation is good news for most taxpayers and American businesses. It will lower taxes, promote faster economic growth and add more jobs. Again, I applaud my colleagues on this historic vote and I look forward to seeing this legislation reach the President’s desk.” ###
11.16.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act by a vote of 227-205, with Cole’s support. “After 31 years of a broken, complicated tax code, the American taxpayers and businesses will finally see much-needed relief," said Cole. "This is a new system that will incentivize the individual and promote economic growth. I was proud to put my support behind this bill. “In Oklahoma alone, this new system will help create more than 11,000 jobs and raises the median household income by $2,241. And with incentives like an increased child tax credit and a doubled standard deduction, it will allow for individual prosperity and give American families more opportunities to prepare for life decisions like retirement or home ownership. “I am very pleased that this bill will also bring American companies back to our shores. By reducing the corporate tax rate, American businesses will flourish within our borders and create thousands of new, well-paying jobs across the country. “I applaud Speaker Ryan, House Leadership, Chairman Brady and the House Ways & Means Committee for crafting a comprehensive, working tax reform bill that will benefit all Americans and grow our economy, and I look forward to action in the Senate.” ###
11.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Conference Report for H.R. 2810, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2018. The bill authorizes $626.4 billion in base funding and includes $26.4 billion more than the President’s initial budget request for our nation’s military personnel, readiness, capability and operations. Furthermore, the bill authorizes an additional $65.7 billion in the Overseas Contingency Operations fund (OCO). When factoring in $7.5 billion for mandatory defense spending, a total of $699.6 billion is authorized to be appropriated. Each year, the passage of NDAA ensures that the military is trained and equipped to defend the United States, which includes maintenance and improvement of defense resources. The legislation passed today invests in those resources for confronting growing threats abroad, increases troop levels and rebuilds parts of the Armed Forces that have faced eight years of constrained budgets and a high-operational temp. The NDAA provides for a 2.4 percent pay raise for service members. It also improves the health and retirement benefits for military personnel, retirees and their families and prohibits any reduction of inpatient care for military Medical Treatment facilities locations outside the U.S. This is the third year of foundational acquisition reform passed by the House, which is intended to field technology and improve our military’s warfighting capabilities. Of particular importance are provisions which will alter how sustainment work is outsourced to commercial contractors. “I support the unique and vital role in the maintenance, repair and overhaul of military equipment,” said Cole. “Military depots are the backbone of the organic industrial base and are our nation’s insurance policy against the tides of economic uncertainty, changes in the defense industry, and wartime demands. This is particularly true when we see the consequences of years of under-funding and high operational tempo and how it has impacted our military equipment and capabilities. Therefore, I will continue to underscore the value of military core statutes and the longstanding balance of workload between military depots and the private sector. “I am pleased that the House has renewed its commitment to a robust and capable military through passage of the National Defense Authorization Act. Just as our military service members answer the call to defend the United States, so too should Americans always prioritize the funding they need to be successful in whatever mission they are tasked. “While this is a good start, Congress and the Administration will need to come to a spending agreement so that these programs can be fully funded. That is a goal we are working hard to achieve on the Appropriations Committee. “Whether it’s countering ISIS and other terrorist activities around the world, or significantly increasing resources to counter Russian aggression through conventional and unconventional warfare methods in Europe, there are very real fights that won’t result in peace without American assistance and resolve.” ###
10.26.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House passed the Senate Amendment to H. Con. Res. 71, the Senate version of the Fiscal Year 2018 Budget Resolution. “The passage of the Senate’s amended budget provides the necessary framework for the much-needed tax reform our nation needs. This is a critical step toward putting in place a tax system that will unleash economic growth, individual prosperity and American ingenuity. I look forward to reviewing the tax package that the House Ways and Means Committee proposes in the coming weeks, and will continue to advocate for a more balanced, fair and simplified tax code.” ###
10.13.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after President Trump announced a new strategy on Iran and its nuclear capability. “I agree with President Trump that Iran is not in compliance with the Obama Administration's Nuclear Deal with Iran and therefore cannot certify that Iran is abiding by the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA),” said Cole. “It is clear that Iran continues its aggressive actions that fall outside of the JCPOA. I agree that the U.S. focus, and that of our allies, should be on ending Iran’s ballistic missiles testing, the violence of Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, and ensuring Iran ceases their ongoing and destabilizing activities throughout the region. “I will support legislation to increase sanctions, unrelated to JCPOA, that target Iran’s support for terrorism and its ballistic missile program. “I will also work with the President on his request that Congress to amend the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act (INARA), which requires the president’s certification of the nuclear agreement every 90 days. “I’ve met with Administration officials to discuss the measures under the current deal and what actions are needed to ensure Iran enforcement complies with the existing agreement. It is clear that the United States needs to be a part of a deal that is more transparent, comprehensive and enforceable. Congress should give President Trump its full support.” ###
10.05.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House passed H. Con. Res. 71, the Fiscal Year 2018 Budget Resolution. It passed by a vote of 219-206 with Cole’s support. “It is a fundamental responsibility for Congress to establish a budget and set forth spending levels in order for our government to continuing functioning for its citizens. This legislation balances our federal budget in 10 years and begins the process of rebuilding our military. Furthermore, it includes pro-growth tax reform that is achieved through reconciliation. “I’d like to thank Chairman Black and Speaker Ryan for their leadership in getting this responsible budget passed and to the House floor. I look forward to action in the Senate that allows us to go to conference and reach a bicameral agreement.” ###
09.30.2017	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price's resignation. "I respect the decision Secretary Price made," said Cole. "He did the right thing for the Administration and for his family. "However, it is hard to lose such an important figure at this critical time. Natural disasters always create a health care crises in their wake. That is especially true with respect to Puerto Rico, where the devastation makes it difficult to provide for our citizens with even the most basic health care services. "While I have great confidence in the professional staff at HHS, I think it is important to get a new secretary to lead the department as quickly as possible." ###
09.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after an all-Republican conference of House members, the Committee on Ways and Means, House Leadership and the Vice President provided briefings on the Republican framework for tax reform. “I was very encouraged by the framework for tax reform that was laid out this morning,” said Cole. “While many details remain to be determined by the legislative process, it offers a positive path forward. “If enacted, it will provide reforms and reductions that will provide for greater economic opportunities for the American taxpayer. It will further promote economic growth by encouraging corporations and small businesses to create jobs and invest in the United States. “I am optimistic as we move forward that the President and the Republican Majority in the House and Senate can deliver on the promise of sweeping tax reform that benefits all Americans. “I will do my best to work with the Administration and Congress to fulfill our promise to the American people. I look forward to the debate, legislative process and enactment of major tax legislation before the end of the year.” ###
09.20.2017	Norman, OK – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after University of Oklahoma President David Boren announced his intention to retire at the end of the academic year. “As someone who has known David Boren for over 40 years, it was with mixed emotions that I learned of his decision to step down as President of the University of Oklahoma at the end of the academic year,” said Cole. “I consider President Boren to be the most consequential and influential Oklahoman since Robert S. Kerr. As a state legislator, governor, U.S. Senator and President of OU, he has contributed more than any other Oklahoman to the wellbeing of our country and the state of Oklahoma. “Personally, while I respect his decision, I regard his departure as a great loss for OU and the state of Oklahoma. Every Oklahoman and OU alumni realizes his departure is a genuine loss, and it will be hard to replace him with someone of his vision, talent and stature. “President Boren can take great pride in the progress of the University of Oklahoma under his leadership. By every conceivable measure he has left the university stronger than he found it. The student body is more talented and diverse. The academic programs are richer and deeper. The campus is more functional and beautiful. And the endowment has been multiplied many times over. Last year, OU ranked #10 among public universities in terms of the amount of donations received, outpacing many famous private universities such as Princeton. In fact, the main campus of the University of Oklahoma received three times as much money from contributions as from appropriations from the state of Oklahoma.” “While President Boren will be missed, I have no doubt that the Regents will come to a wise and thoughtful decision concerning a potential successor. And I know firsthand that the institution is strong and dynamic. It will adapt well to a new president.” “As President Boren serves out his final year, I hope all Oklahomans will reflect on the profound contributions he has made to the University of Oklahoma, to our state, and to our country. I wish him well in his retirement and look forward to his continued contributions to the public life of our state and our nation.” ###
09.19.2017	Norman, OK – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after President Trump delivered his first speech to the United Nations (UN) General Assembly. “President Trump’s speech was clearly one of the best and most consequential speeches of his presidency thus far,” said Cole. “He gave a spirited defense of American values and interests to the UN, and he put America first. “In addition, he sent a direct, blunt and clear message that unambiguously called out North Korea, Iran and Venezuela for activities at odds with the best interests of the civilized world. In doing so, President Trump made it clear that America continues to lead and uphold the international order. He was also quick to remind other countries to do their part in reigning in rogue nations and terrorist organizations. “Make no mistake about it, this speech was a major statement defining America’s role on the international stage. I believe historians will look back on this speech as a defining moment in the Trump presidency. It asserted and redefined America’s role as the leader of the free world.” ###
09.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 3354, the Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act, 2018. This legislation packages the remaining eight Fiscal Year 2018 appropriations measures together to include: Agriculture; Commerce, Justice and Science; Financial Services; Homeland Security; Interior; Labor, Health and Human Services and Education; State and Foreign Operations; Transportation, Housing and Urban Development. It was passed in the House by a vote of 211-198 with Cole's support. “The House has passed all 12 appropriations bills through the House before the October 1 deadline," said Cole. "This has not been accomplished since 2006. I hope that this momentum will continue and carry over to future negotiations on funding our government. “I am especially proud to bring forth this year’s Labor, Health and Human Services and Education appropriations bill in this package. Within this portion are funding priorities that millions of Americans value from cancer research to IDEA funding. Additionally, for the third consecutive year, we have increased funding at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) by $1.1 billion from the previous year’s levels. Funding in the House bill will advance research in a number of key areas, to include Alzheimer’s and pediatric cancer research among others. “I’d like to thank Chairman Frelinghuysen and Speaker Ryan for their leadership in getting all 12 bills to the House Floor before our fiscal year deadline. I look forward to its passage in the Senate and its arrival to the President’s desk.” ###
09.07.2017	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after President Trump announced his intention to rescind the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in six months. “In deciding to allow the DACA program to expire, President Trump made the right call,” said Cole. “President Obama exceeded his constitutional authority by implementing the policy through executive order. Major immigration policy changes must be done through Congressional action, and President Trump has given Congress ample time to craft a new policy regarding DACA recipients. “It is important that we show compassion towards children and young adults who were brought to our country through no fault of their own. In the coming months, I am hopeful that Congress will reach a consensus on this knotty issue. If Congress can reach a compromise on this difficult issue, President Trump will achieve something that eluded both President Bush and President Obama – a significant immigration reform enacted by Congress and signed by the President.” ###
08.22.2017	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement on President Trump’s speech regarding the strategy in Afghanistan. "Last night’s speech by President Trump on Afghanistan was thoughtful, forceful, measured and convincing," said Cole. "The President made it clear that the United States will not allow terrorist groups to prevail in Afghanistan, giving them the ability to plan and launch another 9/11 style attack on the United States. "The president is following the best military and diplomatic advice available. And he is placing his confidence in our armed forces to defeat our enemies and in the American people to persevere until the United States has achieved its objectives. Neither will disappoint him. "I was especially pleased that the president called on Pakistan to step up its efforts against terrorists within its borders that target American troops. I also appreciate his outreach to India, an important player in the region. "This was a presidential decision arrived at after a thorough review of the costs, the stakes and the consequences of staying in Afghanistan. I am impressed by the process in which the president engaged and by the input of those who worked with him to arrive at this consequential decision. "It is my hope that Congress will set aside its partisan divisions and give the president its full support. The President has acted in the best interests of the American people. Republicans and Democrats should give him and our troops in the field the support they need to succeed," concluded Cole. ###
07.28.2017	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after several media outlets reported that he was a proponent of abandoning Republican efforts to repeal and replace the broken system of Obamacare: "Several media outlets have reported that I have advocated abandoning Republican efforts to repeal and replace Obamacare," said Cole. "That is not at all what I suggested. My observation was that many Democrats have conceded that there are problems with Obamacare and that we should fix them, not repeal the law. I challenged them to put those fixes on the table for Congress to consider. To date, they have failed to do so." "Let me be clear. The Affordable Care Act has been a failure. It has increased premiums, reduced patient choice, and placed tremendous financial burdens on thousands of hospitals in states that did not expand Medicaid. I have consistently voted to repeal and replace Obamacare. I believe it is ultimately unsustainable, and that Congress must address the issue honestly and candidly. If that means dealing seriously with Democrats who want to fix the problem, rather than exploit a political issue, I am more than willing to entertain those suggestions." ###
07.28.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) announced the following schedule of town hall meetings for the month of August: August 15th – 12:00 Noon CST Ada, OK McSwain Theater 130 W Main St. Ada, OK 74820 August 22nd – 5:30 PM CST Norman, OK National Weather Center; Room 1313 (David L Boren Auditorium) 120 David L Boren Blvd #2400 Norman, OK 73072 August 24th – 5:30 PM CST Midwest City, OK Rose State College Professional Training Center 1720 Hudiburg Drive Midwest City, OK 73110 August 29th – 12:00 Noon CST Lawton, OK Great Plains Technical Center; Main Auditorium 4500 SW Lee Blvd Lawton, OK 73505 If you have any questions regarding the upcoming town halls, please contact the Norman office at (405) 329-6500. ###
07.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the passage of H.R. 3219, the Make America Secure Appropriations Act, 2018. The bill is a consolidated spending package that combines funding for the Defense, Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, Energy and Water and the Legislative Branch Appropriations for Fiscal Year 2018. It passed in the House by a vote of 235-192. “This consolidated measure responsibly allocates funding for our nation’s highest priority – our military and national security,” said Cole. “It protects our active duty service members and our veterans, while strengthening our national defense to its highest readiness levels in eight years. Further, it demonstrates strong support for improved funding for our nation’s military facilities, from construction on the hospitals that our troops use to maintenance on our missiles and defense weaponry. “Additionally, included in the final bill is my amendment directing the President to provide a strategy and a budgetary analysis for a new Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) no later than 30 days after passage. It has been 16 years since Congress has debated and voted on an AUMF. The last AUMFs passed by Congress gave the President authority to use military force against those responsible for the September 11, 2001 attacks, and against Iraq. Some of the enemies with whom were are engaged, did not even exist 16 years ago. We owe it to our allies, our citizens and to the men and women on the front lines the reassurance that America is committed to fighting and winning these wars and not rely on an out of date AUMF. “Also included is a $1.6 billion funding boost to begin construction on the border wall, a major priority of President Trump.” Other key provisions in the Make America Secure Appropriations Act, 2018 include: -Full 2.4% pay increase for military service members -Full funding of the President’s request for the Department of Veterans Affairs at $73.8 billion -Provision to prohibit the closure of Guantanamo Bay -Authorizes the Administrator of the EPA and the Secretary of the Army to withdraw from the Waters of the U.S. rule -Continues pay freeze for Members of Congress “Congress has no more basic responsibility than providing the resources necessary to keep our nation secure. This legislation does exactly that by robustly funding our military, providing our soldiers and veterans with the training, equipment, and care they need and deserve, and by securing our borders and better enforcing our immigration laws. I’m proud to have played a role in crafting and passing this important legislation.” ###
07.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after he voted for H.R. 2810, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2018. This legislation authorizes funding and operations for the Department of Defense and military personnel, and was passed in the House by a vote of 344-81. “Providing the resources necessary to adequately fund our nation’s armed forces is one of Congress’s fundamental responsibilities” said Cole. “The final product that the House has crafted demonstrates strong bipartisan policies, and brings forth the framework to build a more robust military with stronger readiness. “I am pleased that my amendment regarding a new Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) was adopted into the final bill. It directs the President to provide to Congress a strategy and a budgetary analysis needed to defeat Al-Quaeda, the Taliban, and ISIS, no later than 30 days after final passage. The report should also include a request for an Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF). While our nation has been in a state of war since 2001, the last AUMF was passed in 2003. Congress owes it to the American people and our men and women deployed for battle, to reaffirm our national commitment to the missions we are sending our soldiers into. “This year’s NDAA contains the largest boost in military funding in eight years with a $631.5 billion for base budget requirements and a $28.5 billion increase for readiness recovery that is above the President’s budget request. It also remains committed to our troops and their families with full funding of the 2.4% pay raise they are entitled to. It supports increased funding for facility maintenance, restoration and modernization by $1.4 billion, as well as increases for depot maintenance to monitor and repair important equipment and machinery.” Other key provisions in NDAA FY 18 include: Provides the resources necessary to support Afghanistan, combat the Taliban and other terrorist organizations, and continues to support our mission to defeat ISIS in Iraq and Syria. Increases the end strength of our military troops Continuing the authorization for the Air Force’s KC-46A Tanker program, Army’s Paladin PIM, and provisions to modernize the Patriot Missile which are key programs for Oklahoma. “For 56 years consecutively, Congress has faithfully acted on its promise to provide for our military. It is our duty to do everything we can to support those who dedicate their lives to defend and protect our freedoms. This legislation is asignificant step towards bringing our military up to the levels necessary to carry out their mission.” ###
07.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – The House Appropriations Committee today released the draft fiscal year 2018 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education (LHHS) funding bill, which will be considered in subcommittee tomorrow. The legislation includes funding for programs within the Department of Labor, the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Education, and other related agencies. In total, the draft bill includes $156 billion in discretionary funding, which is a reduction of $5 billion below the fiscal year 2017 enacted level. The bill cuts funding to lower-priority programs, while targeting investments in medical research, public health, biodefense, and important activities that help boost job growth. The legislation also includes several provisions to rein in unnecessary regulations, and to protect the sanctity of life. “This bill reflects Republican priorities to cut spending and focus investments in programs our people need the most – public health and medical research, biodefense, fundamental education, and proven programs that increase job growth, for example,” House Appropriations Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen said. “It also includes important provisions to stop government overreach.” “The Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies appropriations bill again achieves its goal of reducing discretionary spending, while remaining committed to important national priorities. For a third consecutive year, it allocates a significant funding increase of $1.1 billion for the National Institutes of Health, which will benefit a wide range of biomedical programs, including public health preparedness and readiness in biodefense, and research programs to find cures spanning from cancer to Alzheimer’s. Included as well are increases for special education funding; TRIO, GEAR UP, and early childhood education programs; and new provisions to protect human life. This bill is one that reflects the priorities that Americans value, and will continue to support the well-being of Americans through funding these vital programs,” LHHS Subcommittee Chairman Tom Cole said. Bill Summary: Department of Labor (DoL) – The bill provides a total of $10.8 billion in discretionary appropriations for DoL – $1.3 billion below the fiscal year 2017 enacted level. The bill provides robust funding for job training programs and sufficient funding for labor enforcement and benefit protection agencies to fulfill their core missions, while reducing lower-priority and underperforming programs. Employment Training Administration (ETA) – The legislation provides ETA with $8.5 billion – a decrease of $1.5 billion below last year’s enacted level and $848 million above the budget request. This total includes $2.6 billion for job training grants, $84.5 million for YouthBuild, and $790 million in mandatory appropriations for Federal Unemployment Benefits and Allowances, which provides job training programs for workers who lose their jobs as a result of international trade. Job Corps – The bill provides $1.69 billion for Job Corps, a decrease of $16 million over the 2017 enacted level and $239.7 million above the budget request. Funding is included in addition to amounts provided in fiscal year 2017 for physical facility safety and security improvements. Veterans Employment and Training Service (VETS) – The bill provides $284 million for VETS, which is $5 million above the fiscal year 2017 level. This includes a $2.5 million increase to expand the Homeless Veterans Reintegration Program. Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) – The bill funds MSHA at $360 million, $14 million below the fiscal year 2017 enacted level. The funding level reflects the declining need for MSHA inspection activities due to the lower levels of mining across the country and especially in coal production. Reducing Harmful Red Tape – The legislation includes several provisions designed to help U.S. businesses create jobs and grow the economy by reducing or eliminating overly burdensome government regulations, including: -A new provision prohibiting enforcement of the “Fiduciary” rule, which places significant new regulatory burdens on retirement investment advisers. -A continuation of provisions providing flexibility in the H-2B program, reducing regulatory requirements and ensuring that employers that comply with program requirements have access to the temporary, seasonal workers their businesses depend on. -The continuation of a provision exempting insurance claims adjusters from overtime requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act in areas that have been hit by a major disaster. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) – The bill includes a total of $77.6 billion for HHS, a decrease of $542 million below last year’s enacted level and $14.5 billion above the President’s budget request. The legislation targets funds to effective, proven programs that help improve the health, safety, and quality of life for Americans. Within this amount, the bill includes: National Institutes of Health (NIH) – The bill provides a total of $35.2 billion for NIH, an increase of $1.1 billion above the fiscal year 2017 enacted level and $8.6 billion above the President’s budget request. The bill provides increases for several critical research initiatives, including: $1.8 billion, a $400 million increase, for Alzheimer’s disease research, $336 million, a $76 million increase, for the Brain Research through Application of Innovative Neurotechnologies (BRAIN) initiative, $400 million, a $80 million increase, for the All of Us research initiative (formerly called the Precision Medicine Initiative), $300 million for the Cancer Moonshot, $10 million, an $8 million increase, for regenerative medicine research, and $12.6 million for the Gabriella Miller “Kids First” pediatric cancer research initiative. Within the total, the legislation includes $526 million (+$10 million) for Clinical and Translational Sciences Awards, $374 million (+$40 million) for Institutional Development Awards (IDeA) programs, and $493 million (+$30 million) for Combating Antibiotic-Resistant Bacteria. The bill includes a new provision requiring NIH to continue reimbursing grantee research institutions for facilities and administrative costs. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) – The legislation includes a total of $7 billion for CDC – $198 million below the fiscal year 2017 enacted level and $1 billion above the President’s budget request. This includes $840.6 million in transfers from the Prevention and Public Health Fund. The bill also continues the longstanding prohibition against using federal funds to advocate or promote gun control. Funding within the CDC includes $1.45 billion for CDC’s Public Health Preparedness and Response programs – an increase of $45 million. This will ensure that the Strategic National Stockpile and State and Local Preparedness capacity are adequate. These programs provide supplies and response efforts in the event of a bioterror attack or pandemic disease emergency. Substance Abuse and Mental Health Administration (SAMHSA) – The bill funds SAMHSA at $3.5 billion – $306 million below the fiscal year 2017 enacted level and $68 million above the President’s request. The legislation maintains a prohibition on federal funds for the purchase of syringes or sterile needles, but allows communities with rapid increases in cases of HIV and Hepatitis to access federal funds for other activities, including substance-use counseling and treatment referrals. SAMHSA funding includes: $1.86 billion for the Substance Abuse Block Grant – the same as the fiscal year 2017 enacted level and $3.4 million above the President’s budget request. $78 million for Criminal Justice activities – equal to the fiscal year 2017 level and the request – including $60 million specifically for drug courts. The bill includes $747 million to address opioid and heroin abuse, which is the same as the fiscal year 2017 enacted level and $44 million above the request. This amount includes $500 million for the state response grants authorized in the 21st Century Cures Act, along with funding for programs authorized in the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act. Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) – The bill includes $5.8 billion for HRSA, which is $398 million below the fiscal year 2017 enacted level and $277 million above the President’s budget request. The amount includes: $300 million for the Children’s Hospital Graduate Medical Education, the same as the fiscal year 2017 enacted level. $103.5 million for the Healthy Start program – and $642 million for the Maternal and Child Health Block Grant – the same as the fiscal year 2017 enacted level. - Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) – The recommendation provides $300 million for AHRQ, which is $24 million below the fiscal year 2017 enacted level. The budget request proposed to merge most of AHRQ’s activities into NIH. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) – The recommendation provides $3.5 billion for CMS administrative expenses, which is $219 million below the fiscal year 2017 enacted level and $137 million below the fiscal year 2018 request. This level is sufficient to maintain core operations and services. The bill does not include additional funding to implement ObamaCare programs, prohibits funds for the “Navigators” program, and prohibits the collection of user fees from the Health Insurance Exchanges. Administration for Children and Families (ACF) – The bill provides $18.5 billion in discretionary funding for ACF, which is $761 million below the fiscal year 2017 enacted level and $4 billion above the fiscal year 2018 request. Early childhood programs receive an increase of $26 million. Head Start receives $9.3 billion, a $22 million increase, and the Child Care and Development Block Grant receives $2.8 billion, a $4 million increase. The bill maintains funding for Preschool Development Grants at $250 million, the same as the fiscal year 2017 enacted level. Administration for Community Living (ACL) – The bill funds ACL at $2.2 billion, which is $243 million above the fiscal year 2017 enacted level and $386 million above the fiscal year 2018 request. This amount includes: $838 million for senior nutrition programs, of which $227 million is for the Meals on Wheels program, and Transfer of the Senior Community Service Employment Program from the Department of Labor. Public Health and Social Services Emergency Fund (PHSSEF) – The bill provides $1.7 billion for PHSSEF, an increase of $221 million above the fiscal year 2017 level and $77 million above the budget request. This includes: $520 million, an increase of $8.3 million, for the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA), $530 million, an increase of $20 million, for Project BioShield, for the acquisition of medical countermeasures, and $250 million, an increase of $178 million, for pandemic influenza preparedness to maintain flu vaccine manufacturing facilities and develop flu vaccines, therapeutics, and diagnostics. The bill also includes enhanced transfer authority to enable HHS to take quick action to address public health emergencies. Department of Education – The bill funds the Department of Education at $66 billion, which is $2.4 billion below the fiscal year 2017 enacted level. The bill eliminates several duplicative or ineffective education programs, and makes reductions to several other lower‑priority programs. Special Education – The bill includes $12.2 billion for IDEA special education grants to states, an increase of $200 million over the fiscal year 2017 enacted level, which will maintain the federal share of special education funding to states. Student Support and Academic Achievement State Grants – The bill includes $500 million, $100 million above the fiscal year 2017 level, for grants that provide flexible funds to states and school districts to expand access, improve school conditions, and increase the use of technology. Pell Grants – The maximum Pell Grant award is maintained at $5,920, funded by a combination of discretionary and mandatory funds. The bill rescinds $3.3 billion of the total $8.5 billion Pell surplus. The Administration’s budget proposed a rescission of $3.9 billion. Impact Aid – The bill provides over $1.3 billion for Impact Aid, an increase of $5 million above the current enacted level. Charter Schools – The bill increases funding for charter schools by $28 million, to a total of $370 million. TRIO and GEAR UP programs, which help first-generation college students prepare for, enter, and complete college, are increased by $60 million and $10 million, respectively, bringing TRIO programs to a total of $1.01 billion and GEAR UP to a total of $350 million. Other Related Agencies – Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS) – The bill includes $1 billion for CNCS, the same as last year’s enacted level. Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB) – The bill provides an advance appropriation of $445 million for CPB for fiscal year 2020, which is the same level of advance funding provided in fiscal year 2017. National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) – The bill includes $249 million for NLRB – a decrease of $25 million below last year’s enacted level. The legislation includes two policy provisions to stop the NLRB’s harmful anti-business regulations. The provisions include: -A provision that prohibits the NLRB from applying its revised “joint-employer” standard in new cases and proceedings; -A provision that prevents the NLRB from exercising jurisdiction over Tribal governments. Social Security Administration (SSA) – The bill provides $12.5 billion to administer SSA activities – the same as the fiscal year 2017 enacted level. This funding level is sufficient to ensure those served by the program receive efficient and timely assistance and services. Defunding ObamaCare – The legislation contains several provisions to stop the implementation of ObamaCare – including prohibiting the use of any new discretionary funding to implement ObamaCare. Cuts and Terminations – The legislation cuts or terminates several lower-priority, unproven, or unnecessary programs. For example, some of these cuts include: A cut of $150 million in refugee programs, consistent with the budget request; A cut of $450 million for the Unaccompanied Alien Children program; A cut of $91 million for the Dislocated Workers National Reserve; A cut of $10 million for the Wage and Hour Division; A cut of $10 million for the Office of Federal Contract Compliance Assistance; A cut of $21 million for OSHA; A cut of $14 million for MSHA; A cut of $219 in CMS program management; A cut of $25 million for the NLRB. Several programs were also terminated; some of these include: Employment Service Grants ($671 million); International Labor Affairs Grants ($60 million), consistent with the budget request; CDC Climate Change program ($10 million), consistent with the budget request; Economic Development Grants ($20 million), consistent with the budget request; “Striving Readers” program ($190 million), consistent with the budget request; Health Careers Opportunity Program ($14 million), consistent with the budget request; and Overseas foreign language study program ($7 million), consistent with the budget request. For the text of the draft FY 2018 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education bill, please visit: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AP/AP07/20170713/106250/BILLS-115HR-SC-AP-FY2018-LaborHHS-LaborHHSFY2018.pdf ### Link to the original release via the House Committee on Appropriations
06.30.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) congratulated this year’s winner of the Congressional Art Competition from the Fourth District. A rising junior at Vanoss High School in Ada, Oklahoma, Laura Rose is the daughter of Blaine and Susan Rose. Rose’s winning artwork, Mother Earth, was created using watercolor on canvas. It will be displayed in the Cannon Tunnel to the U.S. Capitol for a year and seen by thousands. “The Fourth District is lucky to be home to such talented artists like Laura,” said Cole. “Her respect, creativity and passion for horticulture and nature is evident in her artwork, and it will surely stand-out in the Cannon Tunnel. An innovative and bright student, Laura has a promising future as an artist, and as an art competitor across the state." Rose began showing an interest in art at a young age. She promotes visual arts in her 4-H work. She has received 1st place two years in a row at the Durant scholastic meet in Figure Drawing 1. She has earned several Honorable Mentions, Best of Show and Silvers Stars with her artwork along with numerous ribbons at the local and state fairs. When Rose submitted her winning artwork earlier this spring, she explained that the portrait was inspired by her studies in horticulture and animal science. “The blue bird represents the arrival of spring, hard work and happiness,” said Rose. “Cacti and succulents provide healing elements and are even foods that promote health and longevity. I wanted to do a portrait of a strong woman who is connected to fertile soil. Replenished tilth helps future crops to grow. I wanted to celebrate the women who farm and contribute this to our state.” “Laura is not only an incredible artist, she is also an outstanding person,” said Charles Hill, principal of Vanoss High School. “I believe her artwork is really just an expression of her natural personality - bright, cheerful, and uplifting. She is a great asset to our school and very deserving of this award.” “Laura’s conceptual use of images and figures is well advanced for her age,” said Hillary Shipley, Rose’s art teacher at Vanoss High School. ###
06.16.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following announcement of the nine confirmed military academy nominees from the Fourth District of Oklahoma. The military service academies that require a congressional nomination are the U.S. Air Force, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy at West Point and the U.S. Naval Academy. The nomination process is highly competitive. Applicants are evaluated for academic performance and standing, including class rank, SAT/ACT scores and school records. Other criteria considered for nomination, by Cole and the recommendation panel, includes athletics, physical fitness, extracurricular activities, recommendations and leadership potential. Upon congressional nomination, students become eligible for appointment consideration at the service academy (or academies) to which they have applied. “It is a privilege to nominate exceptional students to our nation’s prestigious military academies each year," said Cole. "I am very proud of the students that have accepted their appointments to a service academy, and will go on to attend some of the best academic institutions in the country. The young men and women from this district are consistently the best and brightest in the nation. Their ability to succeed at anything in life and opting for a career of service to their country speaks to their character. They could choose to do anything they wanted, yet they have elected to serve their country and a cause greater than themselves. They are outstanding leaders in their communities, and I am confident that they will represent Oklahoma with honor and integrity throughout their military service.” Students that have received a congressional nomination from the Fourth District of Oklahoma and have accepted an appointment are: Curtis James Baker – United States Military Academy Washington High School Todd Beau Guffey - United States Military Academy Tuttle High School Lauren Hallie Hembree – United States Military Academy Norman North High School Luke Estes Sturtz – United States Merchant Marine Academy Community Christian School MaKenzie Brooke Mabry – United States Air Force Academy Bridge Creek High School Jennifer Marie Gallaher - United States Air Force Academy Norman High School Tanner Glen Johnson - United States Air Force Academy Tuttle High School Michael Jacob Greisman - United States Air Force Academy Plainview High School Tyler Gregory Cox – United States Naval Academy Blanchard High School Pictured L to R: Luke Sturtz, Tyler Cox, Tanner Johnson, Jennifer Gallaher and Michael Griesman. (Not pictured MaKenzie Mabry, Hallie Hembree, Beau Guffey and Curtis Barker) ###
06.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement on the shooting incident that occurred during the Congressional Baseball Game practice in Alexandria, Virginia, involving Majority Whip Steve Scalise, Members of Congress, Congressional staff and Capitol Police. “I am deeply shocked and saddened to hear that my colleague and friend Majority Whip Steve Scalise, along with Capitol Police and Congressional staff, were shot while practicing to play in the annual Congressional Baseball Game," said Cole. "This senseless act of violence endangered dozens of innocent people. We are very fortunate that the Capitol Police were on the scene, and that the Alexandria Police Department and first responders who also arrived almost immediately. Their heroism and rapid response most likely prevented an even worse attack. “My thoughts and prayers are very much with those who are wounded and their families.” ###
06.08.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the U.S House of Representatives passed H.R. 10, the Financial CHOICE Act by a vote of 233-186. The Financial CHOICE Act is comprehensive legislation to fundamentally alter the Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in 2010 in response to the financial crisis of 2007-2008. “This legislation will provide regulatory relief to America’s community banks and credit unions and will consequently improve the business climate for small businesses. The 2008 financial crisis was caused in large part by big Wall Street investment banks. Unfortunately, when Congress passed Dodd Frank in 2010, they imposed the same regulatory burden on community banks and credit unions that were intended to rein in the excesses of the big banks who were responsible for the crisis. Holding small banks to the same standard as the largest banks ignores the obvious differences between Wall Street and Main Street. The Financial CHOICE Act will restore common sense to banking regulations which will subsequently accelerate economic opportunities for America’s entrepreneurs.” ###
06.08.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after Bob Stoops, Head Coach of the University of Oklahoma (OU) Football Team, announced his retirement from his position. Stoops has served as the Head Coach since 1999. “Eighteen years ago Bob Stoops took the reins of a legendary football program that had fallen upon hard times. 190 wins later, with ten Big 12 titles and a national championship to his credit, Coach Stoops is doing what very few people get to do – he’s leaving on his terms while he is still at the top of his game. The Sooner Nation owes Bob Stoops a debt of gratitude for returning Oklahoma Football to its rightful place among the elite programs in the country. "While I am proud of Coach Stoops' winning record, I am even more proud of the manner in which he has operated his program and the many contributions he has made to Oklahoma off the field. Coach Stoops ran one of the cleanest and classiest programs in America. And he is handing it over to his successor in pristine condition, with a sterling record of winning while playing by the rules. "Off the field I have seen Bob Stoops and his players visiting awe struck, grateful children at pediatric cancer centers. I have visited Oklahoma soldiers in Iraq who proudly displayed Oklahoma banners and footballs that Coach Stoops had sent them. I have heard him address soldiers at Fort Sill, telling them that he knew who the real warriors and heroes were, and that they were not football players. And I have watched him at charity events for Boys and Girls Clubs thanking donors for helping kids who needed some support and a safe place to go after school. "Bob Stoops and his entire family are an Oklahoma treasure. They have all given to our state in countless ways as individuals and as a family. We have all been proud of him, his family and his program from the day he walked onto the campus at the University of Oklahoma. "I wish him and Carol the very best as they enter the next chapter of a storied career. Boomer Sooner!” ###
05.23.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after introducing the Stigler Act Amendment of 2017, along with Congressmen Lucas, Mullin and Russell. This legislation amends the Stigler Act of 1947, which restricts Native American allotted land to only persons of ½ degree of Native American blood heritage. The Dawes Act of 1887 authorized the federal government to survey tribal lands and divide them into allotted parcels for individual Native Americans. Title to these allotment parcels was set forth in the “Stigler Act of 1947.” The Stigler Act provides that, upon probate, if the heirs and devisees of an original allottee from the Five Tribes (Chickasaw, Choctaw, Seminole, Creek and Cherokee) have passed out of ½ degree Native American blood, the allotment loses its “restricted free” status. Restricted land is not subject to state taxation. Federal law does not dictate a minimum Native American blood degree requirement for any other tribe. The Stigler Act Amendment of 2017 seeks to amend the original Stigler Act, and remove the ½ degree requirement of Native American blood. In doing so, it would provide the opportunity for heirs and devisees to take title to the land, and allow the parcel to maintain its “restricted” status. This legislation will also create parity in federal law in the treatment of Native American-allotted land by removing minimum blood degree requirement for solely the Five Tribes. “Introducing this amendment to the Stigler Act will allow for past precedent to be current with the realities of Native-owned, restricted land,” said Cole. “Many of Oklahoma’s citizens have passed out of ½ blood lineage, but remain vested to their Native American heritage. Removing the ½ blood degree prerequisite and expanding its range to any degree will help preserve the rights and legacy of Native American tribes and their inheritance. “As Native Americans, we take great pride in our heritage and the land that our ancestors maintained before us,” said Mullin. “The Stigler Act Amendment would allow Natives to pass on their restricted land to future generations who may not meet the ½ blood degree requirement. I appreciate Congressman Cole for putting forward this legislation to ensure that members of the Five Tribes who seek to carry on their ancestors’ heritage can continue to preserve restricted status of their land and reap all of the benefits that come along with it. “The Stigler Act Amendment of 2017 protects the sovereignty and heritage of our Native Americans in Oklahoma,” said Russell. “Through time many of our tribal members have passed out of the blood degree prerequisites allowing taxation of tribal businesses. This bill would fix this issue and allow tribal heritage and sovereignty to continue to grow and thrive in Oklahoma.” ###
05.04.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1628, the American Health Care Act (AHCA), by a vote of 217-213. “It’s painfully obvious that the Affordable Care Act is not working,” said Cole. “Premiums have risen through the roof, patient choices have dwindled, and taxes and penalties have increased dramatically. While the legislation we passed today isn’t a perfect solution, it will increase choices, reduce costs, and give consumers greater flexibility. “Oklahoma has been especially hit hard by Obamacare,” continued Cole. “The state currently has only one insurer and people in rural areas have lost their doctors. The legislation we passed today will provide a market-based health care system that will also give states more options to tailor their health care systems to better suit the needs of their citizens. “This legislation will certainly undergo changes as it moves through the legislative process, but there are solid provisions that will ensure healthcare is more affordable. We’ve included tax credits to provide flexible payment options and given states the authority to modernize and strengthen Medicaid. The burdens of the employer and individual mandates will be nullified, and block grants will be at the discretion of the states. Further, it includes a $15 billion fund to help states provide subsidies for high-risk patients, which will help stabilize the market for these patients. “Significantly, those with pre-existing conditions are guaranteed protection in the American Health Care Act. Patients with pre-existing conditions will not be denied insurance, nor should they ever be. To ensure that insurance remains affordable for patients with pre-existing conditions, we’ve included an $8 billion fund to help offset premiums costs for those patients. “The new system also retains some of the effective provisions of the Affordable Care Act, including allowing those under 26 years old to stay on their parents’ plans. “Finally, in order to make sure that Members of Congress and congressional staff are subject to the same regulations as all Americans, we also passed a stand-alone bill, H.R. 2192, to ensure this remains the case. “As the American Health Care Act is now sent to the Senate, Americans should be aware that the legislative process is not finished. The Senate will certainly have the opportunity to amend, and hopefully improve, the legislation passed by the House. I look forward to its passage by the Senate and its ultimate signing by the President,” concluded Cole. ###
05.03.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 244, the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2017. It passed by a vote of 309-118. This legislation will fully fund the federal government for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2017. “Congress has fulfilled its fundamental responsibility to fund our government and its agencies, as well as avoid a government shutdown," said Cole. "It is the first successful bicameral, bipartisan negotiation of the Trump Administration that has had broad support. “This bill includes a $25 billion increase in defense spending which will allow us to maintain a strong military with the highest levels of readiness, as well as $1.5 billion for additional border security and increases for the National Institutes of Health. “Also included in this bill are provisions to deconstruct the job-killing policies of the last eight years, as well as spending cuts that eliminate burdensome regulatory programs. “I’m pleased that we were able to reach a bipartisan consensus and hope that this working relationship continues into the negotiations for the appropriations process for Fiscal Year 2018," concluded Cole. ### For information on the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2017, please click here.
05.01.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House Appropriations Committee released the details for the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2017 (Senate Amendment to H.R. 244). This bill is the comprehensive appropriations measure that will fund the federal government for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2017. “This bill, which went through bipartisan negotiation, will fund the government through September 30th. The Labor, Health and Human Services and Related Agencies component, which I oversee, is $2.8 billion less than President Obama requested last year, and cuts total spending by $1 billion compared to last year. The bill was written with bipartisan input, and I am pleased that we were able to find common ground on both sides of the aisle. “More importantly, we shifted spending to our most important priorities, such as biomedical research, biodefense programs, education programs and efforts to prevent opioid abuse. Further, in a major victory for President Trump, the Pentagon received $20 billion more than last year and $16.3 billion more than President Obama requested. In another victory for President Trump, funding for border security increased by $1.5 billion. “I am especially pleased that the Labor, Health and Human Services and Related Agencies (LHHS) appropriations subcommittee secured $34.1 billion for the National Institutes of Health, a $2 billion increase from Fiscal Year 2016. It will continue to fund critical programs including $1.39 billion for Alzheimer’s research, $5.7 billion for the National Cancer Institute and $12.6 million for the continuation of the Gabriella Miller Kids First Research Act. “The LHHS provisions also includes $7.2 billion for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, a $22 million increase from Fiscal Year 2016. It will preserve the continuation of the CDC’s Public Health Preparedness and Response programs, as well as $112 million for expansions to combat prescription drug abuse. “We’ve also been able to increase funding for children with disabilities by $90 million from Fiscal Year 2016, pushing the program to over $12 billion for Fiscal Year 2017. In addition, Impact Aid, which is critically important to Oklahoma, received over $1.3 billion, a $23 million increase from Fiscal Year 2016. TRIO and GEAR UP, programs also critical to Oklahoma, received increases of $50 million and $17 million respectively. “I’d like to thank my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for working diligently to develop a comprehensive, bipartisan funding bill that includes significant investments in some of our nation’s most vital programs. This bill is a clear example that Congress can work together and I hope this trend continues into the negotiations for the Fiscal Year 2018 appropriations process,” concluded Cole. ### For more details on the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2017, please click here.
04.07.2017	Washington, D.C. – The office of Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) is now accepting entries for the 2017 Congressional Art Competition. Each spring, the U.S. House of Representatives sponsors An Artistic Discovery, a nationwide competition for high school students interested in the arts and looking for an opportunity to showcase their creativity. The annual contest recognizes and encourages artistic talent of young constituents across the nation, including those living in Oklahoma’s Fourth Congressional District. After the Fourth District winner has been announced, the student’s artwork will be displayed for one year in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. In addition, the winning prize includes travel to Washington with a guest for a reception and award presentation, courtesy of Southwest Airlines. The Fourth District winner also becomes eligible to receive a $3,000 scholarship to the Savannah College of Art & Design or Tennessee Wesleyan University if he or she enrolls at either institution. All entries are accepted at one of Congressman Cole’s district offices or the Ardmore Chamber of Commerce on Tuesday, May 2, 2017, at 4:00 p.m. Those locations are listed below: Norman Office 2424 Springer Dr., Ste. 201 (405) 329-6500 Lawton Office 711 SW D Ave., Ste. 201 (580) 357-2131 Ada Office 100 E. 13th St., Ste. 213 (580) 436-5475 Ardmore Chamber of Commerce 410 W. Main (580) 223-7765 The official entry form, contest rules and submission checklist are available here. For other questions about the competition, please contact Katie Ringer at (405) 329-6500. ###
04.07.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) congratulated Judge Neil Gorsuch after his confirmation to the Supreme Court by the Senate. Gorsuch was confirmed by a vote of 54-45. “I applaud the confirmation of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court," said Cole. "He is well within the judicial mainstream and like Justice Scalia, is a firm defender of our Constitution. I believe his sound judgement combined with his civil demeanor makes him a truly outstanding person to sit on the highest court in the land. “The vote on Judge Gorsuch should have been a no-brainer. He was clearly qualified to fill the vacant seat and had been confirmed unanimously by the Senate when he was nominated to his previous position on the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals. I am confident that his tenure on the Supreme Court will demonstrate to the American people that this confirmation should have been similarly unanimous.” ###
04.07.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after President Trump authorized a missile strike on a Syrian airfield last night. “President Trump’s decision to act swiftly on Syria was just and decisive," said Cole. "I applaud him for taking action against the atrocities brought about by the Assad regime. "Moving forward, the President should bring to Congress a clear and comprehensive strategy to protect American interests, deter reprehensible acts, and eliminate jihadi forces that are operating and destabilizing our regional allies. In doing so, Congress should have a robust debate and provide the President with the Authorization for the Use of Military Force. "For the past sixteen years the United States military has been engaged in several conflicts, primarily, but not exclusively, in the Middle East," continued Cole. "It’s not an exaggeration to say the United States has been in a state of war since the attacks of September 11. And yet, we have been trying to combat growing threats of new kinds of terrorism worldwide without a formal authorization of military force since 2003. With the horrendous war crimes committed by Assad on his own people, this debate is needed now more than ever. "Congress owes President Trump our best counsel and our best advice, as to how he should pursue America’s priorities. The best way to do so is for his administration to seek an AUMF and for Congress to give him one." ###
04.06.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole announced the following schedule of town hall meetings for the month of April. April 12, 2017 – 12:00 noon CST Chickasha, OK Te Ata Auditorium, USAO 1727 West Alabama Ave. Chickasha, OK 73018 April 18, 2017 – 12:00 noon CST Ardmore, OK Ardmore Convention Center 2401 North Rockford Road Ardmore, OK 73401 If you have any questions regarding the upcoming town halls, please contact the Norman office at (405) 329-6500. ###
03.24.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House decided to delay the vote on H.R. 1628, the American Health Care Act (AHCA). “I am extremely disappointed that we missed this opportunity to dramatically improve healthcare for millions of Americans,” said Cole. “I was very much prepared to vote in favor of this measure, because I know Americans, especially Oklahomans, deserve better healthcare. Under this system, they had that opportunity. “The battle to improve access to quality, affordable healthcare is far from over. I want to commend Speaker Ryan, House Leadership and President Trump for doing everything they possibly could to bring us one step closer to winning that battle. I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure that Oklahomans will have a health care system that provides affordable, accessible, quality care in a market-based system with choices and flexibility.” concluded Cole. ###
03.21.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after he attended President Trump’s meeting with House Republicans on Tuesday morning. “President Trump came as who he is -- direct, colorful, funny, persuasive, pointed, and a master dealmaker,” said Cole. “He made it crystal clear how much was on the line. He thanked members by name who had moved in his direction and they were from across the political spectrum of the Conference. And he prodded by name some who had not yet committed. It was a tremendously effective political performance on an intimate stage before a star struck audience. Trump was first rate in every way. “This is part of the job that he enjoys and excels at -- closing the deal,” concluded Cole. ###
03.15.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after passage of his legislation, H.R. 132, the Arbuckle Project Maintenance Complex and District Office Conveyance Act of 2017. This bill was passed by a vote of 407-1 in the House. H.R. 132 authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to convey all right, title and interest in the Maintenance Complex and District Office of the federal Arbuckle project to the Arbuckle Master Conservancy District in Murray County, Oklahoma. Cole previously introduced this bill in the 114th Congress, and it passed in the House in 2016. “I was proud to sponsor this legislation which will put the Arbuckle Maintenance Complex back into local hands, and local control. This important project provides numerous benefits to the surrounding areas including flood control, municipal water supply and many recreational water activities. I look forward to this legislation being passed by the Senate, and ultimately, to the President’s desk.” In 1962, Congress passed a law to authorize payment of reimbursable costs for construction, operation and maintenance of the Bureau of Reclamation’s “Arbuckle Project” in south-central Oklahoma. Once conveyed, the federal government will be relieved of all future liability and financial responsibility related to the Arbuckle Project Maintenance Complex. For more information on H.R. 132, please click here. ###
03.08.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement on the passing of Oklahoma journalist, Mike McCarville. "I was saddened to learn of the death of my dear friend Mike McCarville,” said Cole. “Mike was a journalist, a commentator, a pioneering television and radio personality and a talented political operative. Over the years we worked together in many campaigns, and he was my communications advisor when I served as Republican State Chairman." “Mike was a mentor, a role model and a colleague. He advised generations of Oklahoma politicians and political operatives. And he held elected officials of both parties accountable for the promises they made to the voters of Oklahoma. Most of all, however, Mike was a devoted husband, father, grandfather and great-grandfather. In a profession that is hard on families, he was first and foremost a family man. My sympathies go out to his lovely wife Ann and his entire family. We lost a good man and a great Oklahoman.” ###
03.08.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1301, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2017 by a vote of 371-48. This bill will provide the funding for the Department of Defense and related programs authorized through the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2017. Overall, the bill provides $577.9 billion for our nation’s defense, including $516.1 billion in discretionary funding and $61.8 billion in Overseas Contingency Operations and the Global War on Terrorism funding. Further, it is $5.2 billion over the Fiscal Year 2016 current enacted levels. “Congress has no higher priority than providing for the national defense through a well-trained, well-equipped military,” said Cole. “This legislation will help start the restoration of our defense capabilities which had been allowed to diminish under the previous administration. With growing threats of terrorism and increased aggression by several nations which are hostile to the United States, a larger, more robust military is critical to maintaining order and preserving peace. “There are a number of key provisions within the bill that benefit service members in Oklahoma and across the country,” continued Cole. “It will provide $215.3 billion for readiness programs, halting the drawdown of troops and increasing end strength. Of importance to Oklahoma, it provides key funding for the Air Force’s KC-46A Tanker program at Tinker and continued Low Rate Initial Production (LRIP) of the Army’s Paladin PIM. The Paladin PIM program extends the operational reach of Army artillery and allows for coordinated and operative fires to support dismounted and mounted troops and is the Army’s premier artillery piece. “Further, our service members and their families will receive the much deserved benefits that they need. The bill will provide for a 2.1% increase in pay for troops and will improve access to quality health care. “America should always maintain the military force necessary to protect our nation, and we should always make sure the men and women we rely on to do so have the best training and best equipment available. I am proud to support the passage of this Defense Appropriations bill, and hope that it sets a standard for future defense appropriations legislation,” Cole concluded. ###
02.17.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the Senate confirmed the nomination of Scott Pruitt to serve as the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Pruitt has served as the Attorney General of Oklahoma since 2010. “I congratulate Scott Pruitt on his confirmation as the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency,” said Cole. “He is a steady, even handed public servant who will lead the EPA with integrity and solid conservative principles. I know he will find the right balance between protecting our environment while also respecting the rights of property owners, state governments and businesses. I am thrilled that he has been confirmed, and I look forward to working with him to protect the environment as well as jobs.” ###
02.16.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), along with Congressman Sanford Bishop (GA-02) introduced legislation today to ensure sensible regulations for newly “deemed” tobacco products by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Named the “FDA Deeming Authority Clarification Act of 2017,” this legislation would amend the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act to change the predicate date for newly “deemed” tobacco products, impose common-sense licensing and advertising guidelines for vapor products and direct the FDA to establish product standards for vapor product batteries. In 2009, the Tobacco Control Act gave the FDA authority to regulate tobacco products under a “deeming process.” Instead of using its flexibility to grandfather existing products, in 2016, the FDA finalized a deeming rule to assert jurisdiction over cigars, pipe tobacco and vapor products, using the February 15, 2007 predicate date set in statute. Without this legislation, the FDA effectively is making it more difficult for vapor products to come to market than cigarettes, even though Public Health England, the British version of our Department of Health and Human Services published a report stating that vapor is 95% less harmful than a cigarette. This legislation builds on the Cole-Bishop Amendment which was included in the House version of the Fiscal Year 2017 Agriculture Appropriations Bill. “While there is disagreement about whether certain tobacco products should be regulated or not, there should be agreement that new regulations should apply to products moving forward, and not retroactively,” said Cole. “Inconsistent authority like this will be detrimental and unfair to many manufacturers and businesses. This legislation preserves the FDA’s ability to regulate these products on part with cigarettes, grandfathers currently available products and then requires the FDA’s approval before any new product is introduced.” “Vapor products offer a promising path for harm reduction for those seeking to quit or limit their smoking,” said Bishop. “This legislation would ensure the FDA’s regulatory process does not limit the availability of safer tobacco options for those seeking to make use of them.” To read more about the FDA Deeming Authority Clarification Act, please click here. ###
02.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after he introduced legislation to prohibit the federal employee hiring freeze from being applied to certain Department of Defense (DoD) civilian employees, and a measure to ensure work at Tinker Air Force Base and McAlester Ammunition Plant can continue if there is a lapse in federal funding. H.R. 989 would exempt certain Department of Defense civilian employees from any furlough resulting from a lapse in discretionary appropriations. “While Congress works to complete its appropriations process for the rest of Fiscal Year 2017 and for Fiscal Year 2018, it is imperative that our civilian employees like those at Tinker Air Force Base continue with their work with the confidence,” said Cole. “Maintenance and sustainment work at Tinker Air Force Base in my district, rely on the constant cycle of finding, training and retaining workers to ensure the warfighter has the equipment that they need. It would be a waste of taxpayer and federal dollars if we prevent work from taking place that has already been paid for scheduled. We must keep pace with the sustainment of our weapon systems.” H.R. 990 would prohibit any hiring freeze affecting Department of Defense civilian employees in facilities that perform depot maintenance, or are designated as a center for industrial and technical excellence. Currently, there are over 550 positions affected by the Executive Order hiring freeze at Tinker Air Force Base. However, thousands of employees will be affected due to attrition rates, workload requirements, reassignments, career promotions and other actions. “The maintenance and technical operations conducted at Tinker and around the country cannot afford to be delayed. An ongoing hiring freeze, or lack of funding, postpones the delivery of military equipment to the warfighter and what we cannot make up for is lost time for training. As the Vice Chiefs of the Joint Chiefs of Staff testified before Congress last week, our military’s readiness levels are well below where they must be, and the hiring freeze is only making matters worse.” ###
02.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 428, the Red River Gradient Boundary Survey Act by a vote of 250-171. This legislation will provide a proper gradient boundary surveying method to settle the contested land ownership between the states of Oklahoma and Texas, and the Comanche, Kiowa and Apache tribes. Ultimately, it will define the state-line boundary between Oklahoma and Texas, and continue to protect the interest of the Comanche, Kiowa and Apache Indian Tribes. Cole is a co-sponsor of H.R. 428. “For years, Oklahomans and Texans have questioned the validity of the Red River’s role as the boundary between the two states,” said Cole. “Over time, the river has been subject to changes from natural causes, and brought on the issues of who owns what land, who pays what taxes and who can make claims of use. “I’d like to thank my friend Congressman Mac Thornberry for crafting a definitive piece of legislation, and bringing together the different parties to reach this conclusion. I am pleased that this bill not only protects the interests of states, but also protects the sovereignty, property and trust rights of the tribal parties involved. The Red River Boundary Survey Act will allow everyone to get a better idea where the current gradient boundary is located.” ###
01.31.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Pete Sessions (R-TX), Chairman of the House Committee on Rules, released the following statement announcing Congressman Tom Cole (R-OK) as the Vice-Chairman of the House Committee on Rules: “I am deeply thankful for Tom’s years of service at the Committee and for his friendship throughout our time in Congress together. I have no doubt that he will use his leadership and expertise to push our conservative values to produce real solutions for the American people,” said Chairman Sessions. “The Rules Committee is so essential to the day-to-day operations of the House and I could not have a selected a better person to help move our agenda forward.” “It is an honor to work with my friend and the Chairman of the full committee, Pete Sessions,” said Congressman Cole. “The Rules Committee is one of the most powerful and essential committees in Congress. Without it, the House cannot function. Working with Chairman Sessions, I will do all I can to make sure the legislative priorities of the American people move efficiently and swiftly through the House of Representatives. I’d like to thank Chairman Sessions for allowing me to serve in this role, and I look forward to working with him and the entire committee.” ### Link to the original release via House Committee on Rules
01.30.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after President Donald Trump signed an executive order temporarily restricting persons entering the United States from seven nations: Iraq, Iran, Syria, Libya, Yemen, Somalia and Sudan. These nations have been known to harbor terrorism and to have been compromised by terrorism. "President Trump's recent executive order temporarily prohibiting immigration from seven countries previously identified as terrorist havens and/or state sponsors of terrorism is clearly intended to protect the American people,” said Cole. “The threat it seeks to contain is real. Indeed ISIL/ISIS has said it intends to slip terrorists into fleeing refugee populations and appears to have done so in the past. "However imperfect or uneven the initial implementation of President Trump's order, the reaction against it has been all out of proportion to its intent and impact," continued Cole. "Critics have described the order as a Muslim ban. It is not. It does not impact over 40 Muslim-majority countries. Some have claimed the order is illegal. It is not. While the courts will ultimately rule on this matter, it appears that the President is acting within the law and the recognized powers of the presidency. Some say the order is unprecedented. It is not. President Obama issued a similar "pause" on immigration from Iraq in 2011, while more intensive methods of vetting were devised and implemented to screen immigrants from that terror infested country. Finally, some have said the threat from these areas is minor. It is not. Indeed US forces are currently engaged in fighting terrorists in at least three of the countries in question - Iraq, Syria and Yemen. "It is fair and appropriate to debate the merits of President Trump's executive order and its initial implementation. But it is inappropriate to engage in demagogic, inflammatory, inaccurate and reckless rhetoric that is designed to create and exploit a political issue rather than address a real threat to our security. I fear that is exactly what we are seeing from many of the President's critics." ###
01.18.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after President Obama commuted the sentence for Chelsea Manning. Manning is accused of leaking classified information from the government. “Private Manning is a traitor to the United States who violated the Espionage Act and deserves to be incarcerated for every single day of his 35 year sentence,” said Cole. “Unfortunately, but not surprisingly, President Obama commuted Private Bradley’s sentence after serving a mere seven years. Manning’s theft of classified documents and the subsequent act of releasing them to Wiki-leaks put American intelligence assets in grave danger. That an American president would even consider releasing a traitor like Private Manning is appalling. This shameful action will weaken America, encourage our enemies and permanently tarnish the reputation of President Obama and those who recommended that he grant this ill-advised commutation.” ###
01.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after being awarded the Navy Distinguished Public Service Medal from the Secretary of the Navy. The Navy Distinguished Public Service Award is the highest honor a civilian can receive and is given for outstanding service and dedication to the United States Navy. “I am deeply honored and humbled to be the recipient of the Navy Distinguished Public Service Award,” said Cole. “One of my highest priorities as a Member of Congress is to always protect and support the interests of our nation’s military, and to always ensure that they have the funding and resources they need to keep our nation safe and secure. I am proud to represent military service members from all branches in my district, and will always continue to fight for those who serve and defend our freedoms. “I would like to express my sincere gratitude to Secretary Ray Mabus for this generous recognition – my grandfather served in the Navy and I know he would be honored as well. I’d also like to thank Rear Admiral Craig Faller, Captain Butch Dollaga, Lieutenant Colonel Marshalee Clarke and Mr. Marc Hone for their ceremonial duties to present this award on the Secretary’s behalf. I will always treasure this honor with immense humility and gratitude.” Pictured (L-R): Mr. Marc Hone, Lieutenant Colonel Marshalee Clarke, Congressman Tom Cole, Captain Butch Dollaga, Rear Admiral Craig Faller ###
01.10.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after he was named Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies. Cole served as the Chairman of the subcommittee during the 114th Congress. “I am honored to serve once again as the Chairman of this important subcommittee,” said Cole. “During the last two years, I have gained a deep appreciation for the important work being done by the agencies under the jurisdiction of this subcommittee. From funding groundbreaking medical research to giving young people the opportunity to be the first in their family to attend college, this subcommittee is one that benefits millions of Americans of all ages. I look forward to a productive appropriations process with a new Administration, and I thank Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen for the opportunity to continue my service.” To view the Appropriations Committee release on Subcommittee Chairmanships, please click here. ###
12.23.2016	Norman, OK – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the United States abstained from vetoing its vote in allowing the passage of the United Nations Security Council resolution to condemn Israeli settlement expansion in the West Bank. "This action was a shameful abandonment of a long time ally that has been routinely berated and attacked by the hostile majority in the UN General Assembly," said Cole. "The action was made worse by Ambassador Powers’ gratuitous insults to the current government of Israel. "One wonders if this action was a last calculated slap in the face to Israel by the outgoing Obama Administration. While claiming to support Israel, the Obama Administration has put Israeli security at risk with its flawed Iranian nuclear deal,” continued Cole. "And it is the Obama Administration that has repeatedly clashed with the current government of Israel over diplomatic and security issues. "Thank goodness there will soon be a new president in the White House and a new administration in leadership that will work with, rather than against Israel. Given that reality, this abstention should be seen as an act of pique by the outgoing Obama Administration rather than a reflection of U.S. policy going forward." ###
12.15.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after President-Elect Donald Trump nominated Congressman Ryan Zinke (MT-At Large) to serve as Secretary of the Interior. Congressman Zinke has served in the U.S. House of Representatives since 2015 and is currently a member of the House Committee on Natural Resources. “Whether on the battlefield as a Navy Seal, or as a Member of Congress on the House Floor, Congressman Zinke is a true patriot who serves his country with honor, distinction and effectiveness,” said Cole. “I am incredibly pleased with President-Elect Trump’s choice to nominate my friend and colleague, who I am confident will serve in this position very well. “Congressman Zinke is well-versed and knowledgeable about the issues concerning our nation’s interior from his service in the Montana State Legislature and his role on the House Committee on Natural Resources. As a lifelong hunter and fisherman, he has great respect for our environment, and is a strong advocate for conserving public lands and keeping them productive. “I am especially pleased that Ryan has publicly noted his commitment to, and understanding of, Native American issues,” continued Cole. “As the Co-Chair of the Native American Caucus, I’ve had the opportunity to work with him on a numerous Native American matters. He is a consistent defender of tribal sovereignty, and is committed to helping tribes achieve economic independence. Ryan truly is a leader that fully encompasses the scope of what this role will require, and I look forward to working with him in his new capacity.” ###
12.13.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after President-Elect Trump nominated Rex Tillerson to serve as Secretary of State for the next Administration. Tillerson is currently the CEO and Chairman of ExxonMobil Corporation. “Rex Tillerson is an excellent choice to be the Secretary of State. He has already proven his diplomatic and management skills as the CEO of ExxonMobil, and I am extremely impressed with his strong leadership background,” said Cole. “Mr. Tillerson will bring a wide range of international contacts, and tremendous respect for and from dozens of important foreign leaders. His unique perspective is exactly what the State Department needs to strengthen relations between the United States and foreign nations. With his business background, he is by definition a realist and internationalist. President-Elect Trump has made a superb choice.” ###
12.08.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the passage of S. 612, the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation (WIIN) Act, which was passed by a vote of 360-61. This legislation would authorize appropriations for numerous water infrastructure projects, natural resources projects, settlements, and much more. Included as well is the Oklahoma Water Rights Settlement between the city of Oklahoma City, the state of Oklahoma, the Chickasaw Nation and the Choctaw Nation. “This bill is a comprehensive piece of legislation that will improve the well-being for millions of Americans through valuable water projects,” said Cole. “It will address the on-going water issues in Flint, Michigan, provide federal funds for numerous water infrastructure projects and consummate many water settlements for Native American tribes across the United States. For Oklahomans, it will finalize the water settlement between the Chickasaw and Choctaw Nations and Oklahoma City." The Oklahoma Water Rights Settlement has been litigated for over five years, and upon passage of S. 612, the settlement is made final. The areas of contention are the Sardis Lake and Kiamichi watershed in south-central and southeastern Oklahoma. The conflict has grown over the water rights ownership and regulatory authority between the Chickasaw and Choctaw Nations’ territories, and the city of Oklahoma City. In 2011, the Chickasaw and Choctaw Nations filed a lawsuit against the city of Oklahoma City for withdrawing water from Sardis Lake. “This has been an on-going conflict that not only affects the parties involved, but everyone in these areas as well,” said Cole. “This is important to many people. But we must realize that Tribal Sovereignty, the right to govern and the defining of those rights must be honored for the Chickasaws and the Choctaws. This settlement allows them to retain that distinction, protects the interests of the people living in those areas and provides security for Oklahoma City’s water needs. “I’d like to give Senator Inhofe credit for recognizing the delicate nature of this conflict and bringing this measure to the comprehensive Water Infrastructure Improvements Act. And further, I’d like to thank Chairman Bill Shuster and Chairman Rob Bishop for working with us to make sure this provision was included in the final version of the bill, and that it will receive federal approval by Congress,” continued Cole. “I deeply appreciate everyone who represented the stakeholders in this process, and applaud them for coming to this important agreement in an expeditious and cooperative manner. It is unusual for Indian Water Settlements to finalize in a short amount of time, and at a lower cost. This settlement will relieve all parties of the legal burdens it has brought, and benefit everyone interested in this matter. Surely, this will serve as a model for water settlements in the future,” concluded Cole. Of importance, the Oklahoma Water Settlement will also: Provide a limit on the amount of water Oklahoma City may export from Sardis Lake each year Create a $10 million fund to support recreational use, fish and wildlife habitat and environmental protections at Sardis and Atoka Lake For more information on the water settlement, please click here. ###
12.08.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the passage of the short-term Further Continuing and Security Assistance Appropriations Act, 2017 (Continuing Resolution), H.R. 2028, which passed by a vote of 326-96 . This legislation prevents a government shutdown and will continue funding federal programs and agencies until April 28, 2017. “Funding our federal government is perhaps the most basic responsibility of Congress. I’m pleased that we met this responsibility, and prevented another government shutdown,” said Cole. “I’d like to congratulate Chairman Hal Rogers and Ranking Member Nita Lowey for crafting an important appropriations measure and ensuring that critical programs and agencies have the resources they need to serve our citizens. “I am also pleased that several adjustments were made to make sure important defense programs will continue to function without interruption, and that important healthcare initiatives in Oklahoma will continue support our Native American communities. “While the government will be funded through April, this is certainly not an ideal way to run the government. “Congress could have, and should have, passed the necessary appropriations bills that would have funded the government through Fiscal Year 2017. Instead, we are essentially putting the government on auto-pilot without taking into consideration the changing needs and circumstances of each government agency. “Rather than finishing its work, Congress is kicking the can down the road. I encourage my colleagues to proceed expeditiously in consideration of appropriations measures for the rest of Fiscal Year 2017 and for Fiscal Year 2018. I hope we can do a better job returning to regular order in the New Year, and get things done,” concluded Cole. Of importance, the Continuing Resolution (H.R. 2028) will include: Maintains key defense programs to continue, including the KC-46A Tanker More than $9 billion for Overseas Contingency Funding (OCO) for overseas defense programs and military efforts against ISIS and terrorism $4.1 billion in emergency disaster relief for areas affected by severe weather and flood damage $872 million for the 21st Century Cures Act of 2016, comprehensive legislation that will provide support for medical research, drug approval and innovation at the National Institutes of Health Continuation of Federal Aviation Administration air travel operations and air safety programs To read more about the Further Continuing and Security Assistance Appropriations Act, 2017, please click here. ###
12.08.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after President-Elect Donald Trump nominated Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt to serve as Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Pruitt has served as the Oklahoma Attorney General since 2010. “I am extremely pleased with President-Elect Trump’s decision to appoint Attorney General Scott Pruitt to lead the EPA,” said Cole. “This is what I predict to be one of Mr. Trump’s best appointments. “I’ve been privileged to know Scott Pruitt since he was a young State Senator in Oklahoma back in 1996. During his time in the State Senate and as Attorney General, he has proven to be an energetic, hard-working visionary, and an exceptional public servant. He is a person of absolute integrity and a man with rock-solid conservative credentials and convictions. “Scott knows how to enforce regulations in a way that values economic opportunity, while simultaneously protecting the health and safety of the American people. I have no doubt he will strike the right balance between protecting our land, air and water while respecting the rights of property owners and entrepreneurs,” concluded Cole. ###
12.07.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole released the following statement after passage of his legislation, H.R. 1219, the Arbuckle Project Maintenance Complex and District Conveyance Act of 2015. This bill was passed by a vote of 412-1 in the House. H.R. 1219 authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to convey all right, title and interest in the Maintenance Complex and District Office of the federal Arbuckle project to the Arbuckle Master Conservancy District in Murray County, Oklahoma. “I was proud to sponsor this legislation, which will put ownership back in the hands where it belongs,” said Cole. “The Arbuckle Maintenance Complex provides numerous benefits to the surrounding areas including flood control, municipal water supply and many recreational water activities. The title of this complex will be given back to the county and serve as an Oklahoma stronghold." In 1962, Congress passed a law to authorize payment of reimbursable costs for construction, operation and maintenance of the Bureau of Reclamation’s “Arbuckle Project” in south-central Oklahoma. Once conveyed, the federal government will be relieved of all future liability and financial responsibility related to the Arbuckle Project Maintenance Complex. For more information on H.R. 1219, please click here. ###
12.06.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after he sent a letter to Chairman Fred Upton, Chairman Kevin Brady and Speaker Paul Ryan, urging them to retain the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (IHCIA) in any contemplated Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) repeal. These provisions are the bedrock legal authorities for health care services for American Indians and Alaskan Natives. “Ever since President-Elect Donald Trump was elected President, tens of millions of Americans have celebrated his promise to repeal and replace Obamacare,” said Cole. “We now know that this is a priority. Having affordable and quality health care is critically important to American families, and Republicans have a plan that will do just that. “There are a few provisions within the Affordable Care Act that we all agree should remain, and lift them into our new plan. One such provision is the Indian Health Care Improvement Act,” continued Cole. “This legislation was included in PPACA purely as “vote bait” to secure Democratic votes and has nothing to do with PPACA. It is vital and ensures that Native Americans have quality health care available to them and their families. There is no controversy here – it sets the national policy for many programs and services provided by the Indian Health Service. I urge my colleagues to maintain this important program throughout the repeal process, and understand the tremendous benefit it has for the Native American communities across the country.” To view the letter as a PDF, please click here. ###
12.02.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed S. 2943, the Conference Report for the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2017 (FY 17) by a vote of 375 to 34. This bill authorizes funding and operations for the Department of Defense and our nation’s Armed Services. “Congress has no greater responsibility than that of providing for our common defense through the annual National Defense Authorization Act,” said Cole. “I am pleased that Congress today, as it has for the past 54 years, passed a strong bi-partisan bill that will give our armed forces the tools necessary to keep our nation safe and secure. “There are a number of key provisions of which I am particularly pleased, including a well-deserved pay raise for our troops and procurement reforms that help save billions of dollars. Further, important benefits like the commissaries and health care will continue to be provided and the legislation keeps costs low for our service members and their families.” Other key provisions of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 include: Halting the drawdown and increasing the end strength of our military troops Continuing the authorization for the Air Force’s KC-46A Tanker program and the Army’s Paladin PIM which are key programs for Oklahoma Providing for a larger force, including increased depot maintenance, facilities sustainment and modernization Continuing the operation of Guantanamo Bay detention camp and prohibiting its closure “Providing the necessary resources for our nation’s military should always be among our highest priorities. We can never falter on our promise to provide for those who defend us selflessly each day. I am proud to support its passage, and will continue to advocate for appropriations measures that are consistent with the authorized funding for FY 17. Now Congress needs to actually fund these reforms, programs and changes by passing a Defense Appropriations‎ bill -- the sooner, the better,” concluded Cole. For more information on NDAA for FY 17, please click here. ###
11.30.2016	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Sens. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.) and James Lankford (R-Okla) and Congressmen Steve Russell (R-Okla.) and Tom Cole (R-Okla.), today praised the passage of H.R. 5785, a bill which would ensure the continued safety of our nation’s airways by eliminating an unintended barrier to the hiring and retention of full-time Air Traffic Controller (ATC) Instructors. The bill removes a financial penalty for instructors willing to work full time in training our next generation of air traffic controllers. “Today’s passage of the Air Traffic Controller Instructor Bill ensures the next generation of air traffic controllers is prepared to manage the complicated network of air traffic in the National Airspace System,” Inhofe said. “This legislation removes government red tape impeding efforts by the private sector to recruit and retain the highest quality full-time air traffic controller instructors to teach at the FAA Academy in Oklahoma City and provide on the job training at airports across the country. I appreciate the support of my colleagues in passing this legislation that will provide future air traffic controllers a consistent training environment with experienced instructors.” “The passage of Congressman Russell’s bill will mean the FAA will be able to continue hiring new air traffic controllers to address the staffing shortages that exist across the nation,” Lankford said. “This bill was vital for the FAA Academy in Oklahoma City, and the training they provide for new controllers that will report to control towers and en route centers all across America. It is very important that we keep experienced air traffic control instructors to teach a new generation of air traffic control students.” “I am proud to see this bill head to the President’s desk to be signed into law,” Russell said. “We will now help ensure that the best air traffic control instructors are incentivized to work full time, rather than penalized for investing in the next generation of controllers. This will lead to safer skies, not only in our country, but all over the world.” “This bill is a much needed piece of legislation during a time when our nation is facing a shortage of air traffic controllers,” Cole said. “It will remove the overreaching regulations which have kept experienced and retired air traffic controllers from training future employees. Air traffic controllers play a critical role in keeping America’s skies safe and I am glad we were able to pass this important legislation when it was needed most.” “On behalf of the hundreds of instructors in Oklahoma and across our nation, SAIC is grateful for the leadership of Senators Jim Inhofe and James Lankford as well as Congressmen Steve Russell and Tom Cole for proactively addressing this issue,” said SAIC Chief Executive Officer Tony Moraco. “We applaud this strong, bipartisan action by the U.S. Congress.” Passage of this legislation is an important step toward improving the FAA’s training academy for air traffic controllers," said Paul Rinaldi, President of the National Air Traffic Controllers Association. "Our National Airspace System is currently experiencing an air traffic control staffing crisis, so this legislation could not have come at a better time. NATCA thanks the Oklahoma delegation, particularly Senator Inhofe, for their leadership in advancing this important bill. Experienced, recently retired controllers are vital to the FAA academy in order to train the new hires the system desperately needs.” Background On July 14, Sens. Inhofe and Lankford as well as Rep. Russell introduced ATC legislation in their respective chambers, S.3217 and H.R. 5785. On April 19, Inhofe voted in favor of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Reauthorization Act of 2016 which included a provision to encourage the hiring and retention of high-quality air traffic controller instructors. ###
11.29.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after President-Elect Donald Trump nominated Betsy DeVos as Secretary of Education and Congressman Tom Price (GA-06) as Secretary of Health and Human Services. “As Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee that oversees the budget for the Departments of Education and Health and Human Services, I want to congratulate President-Elect Trump on selecting two excellent choices for his cabinet. These two outstanding leaders are well-versed in their fields, and will bring much needed change for our education and healthcare systems,” said Cole. “Having been friends with Betsy DeVos for years, I know she believes strongly in the rights of parents to direct the education and upbringing of their children with minimal interference from the government. Like me, she is an advocate of charter schools, vouchers, opportunity scholarships and homeschooling. Her steady leadership and depth of knowledge will be fundamental in improving our nation’s education system,” continued Cole. “My colleague, Chairman Tom Price, is uniquely qualified to lead the Department of Health and Human Services. He has been a central part of our leadership in Congress, and will excel in leading our nation’s healthcare reform. As an expert in medicine and health, I am confident in his ability to lead this agency, and to finally repeal and replace Obamacare. “I know that these two candidates will be exceptional public servants, and I am looking forward to witnessing the great work that they will do to help improve the lives of all Americans,” concluded Cole. ###
10.28.2016	Norman, OK – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the FBI announced that it will reopen its investigation into Secretary Hilary Clinton’s use of an email server. Previously, the FBI had stated that it would not take any action against Secretary Clinton after its first investigation. “Secretary Clinton is not above the law, and this should have been the case months ago after the FBI’s initial investigation,” said Cole. “I’m glad that the FBI has realized that their work is not done, and that Secretary Clinton’s use of her email server was irresponsible, untrustworthy and quite possibly illegal. FBI Director James Comey described her actions as ‘careless’ at the end of the initial investigation – but that sort of carelessness puts our nation at risk. I hope that the FBI conducts a thorough investigation, and that Secretary Clinton will be held to the same standard as anyone else who engage in these activities.” ###
10.25.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the Pentagon demanded the California National Guard members repay decades-old reenlistment bonuses. Additionally, it has been reported that while this controversy is currently only impacting California National Guardsmen, It could potentially apply to Guardsmen throughout the country. “I am extremely dismayed that the Pentagon has asked the California National Guard to ‘repay’ their bonuses,” said Cole. “This is downright wrong. Our men and women in uniform, especially those who have seen combat, are responsible for protecting our national security and that of our allies. Demanding repayment of the bonuses awarded to them for reenlisting severely undermines and disrespects the sacrifice and honor that they gave in order to defend our nation and our freedoms. "Our service members protect all of us in many ways and they do not deserve these kind of surprises from our government,” continued Cole. “Congress needs to act in whatever way is necessary to stop this absurd policy and to make sure that service in the National Guard is respected and rewarded in a way commensurate with their selfless service to our nation. The good news is, the House has a provision in the Fiscal Year 2017 National Defense Authorization Act which would protect our men and women in uniform from mindless policies such as this one. It should be acted upon immediately" ###
10.25.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement on the current state of the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare. Recently, the Obama Administration revealed that premiums for enrollees will rise 76 percent for Oklahomans next year. “The Obama Administration has confirmed what we knew would become a reality: Obamacare is simply unaffordable and just does not work,” said Cole. “From the beginning, the system has been flawed in both quality and quantity. Premiums and deductibles are outrageous, people can’t access their doctors and insurance companies are frantically drawing back their participation. These are all real problems that are proof that one-size-fits-all healthcare simply does not work. “Since its initial passage, Republicans have predicted that Obamacare would fail, and it’s beginning to unfold right in front of us,” continued Cole. “I’m glad to support the blueprint that Republicans in Congress have set forward to replace this deeply flawed healthcare system. The Better Way Agenda will provide a healthcare system that embraces free markets, consumer choice and minimal regulations and mandates and puts back quality and consumer choice in American healthcare.” ###
09.28.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), a member of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed a short-term continuing resolution that funds the government until December 9, 2016 and prevents a government shutdown. “One of the most fundamental responsibilities of Congress is to fund the federal government. Failing to do that and allowing the government to shut down is simply irresponsible,” said Cole. “This bill will allow the government to remain funded while Congress works to complete the full year of appropriations bills.” In particular, the continuing resolution addresses funding the ongoing Zika crisis without funding Planned Parenthood, and provides disaster relief to flood-ravaged communities in Louisiana and West Virginia. “Oklahomans are far too familiar with the unpredictable nature of weather, and unfortunately West Virginia and Louisiana witnessed the incredible damage that it can do. I’m glad that this bill will help with the immediate recovery efforts for those affected, as it has done in the past for Oklahoma,” said Cole. Most importantly, this bill will fully fund Veterans Affairs well above the President’s request and essential military construction projects at Tinker Air Force Base, Altus Air Force Base, and Fort Sill Army Post, among others across the nation. “We acted responsibly and passed legislation that will ensure that our nation’s needs are met and our service members in combat will not have to worry about when the next paycheck is arriving,” assured Cole. “Our federal workforce as well as our military members and their families deserve to have the confidence that their government will do its job and not fail them.” ###
09.14.2016	OKLAHOMA CITY, OK – U.S. Congressman Tom Cole will be recognized as the Red Earth Ambassador of the Year during an 11:30 am luncheon scheduled Wednesday, October 12 in the Eclipse Room at Oklahoma City’s Remington Park.. The Red Earth Ambassador of the Year award recognizes individuals, not necessarily of Native American descent, who have made significant contributions in presenting a positive image of American Indians. Cole, a member of the Chickasaw Nation, has represented the Fourth District of Oklahoma since 2002 and is currently serving his seventh term in the U.S. House of Representatives. Time Magazine has identified him as “one of the sharpest minds in the House.” He is currently one of two Native Americans serving in the U.S. Congress. Red Earth Ambassador of the Year recipients have come from all areas of accomplishments – including artists and sports stars, actors and journalists, community and government leaders. Previous recipients have included NASA Astronaut John Herrington Commander, USN (retired), Olympian Billy Mills, poet laureate and Pulitzer Prize winning author N. Scott Momaday, Oklahoma Supreme Court Justice Yvonne Kauger, and Comanche Code Talker Charles Chibitty. Cole has a long background of service to Oklahoma. Before Congress, he served as a member of the Oklahoma State Senate and as Oklahoma’s Secretary of State where he was former Governor Frank Keating’s chief legislative strategist and liaison to the states federal delegation. Congressman Cole also led Oklahoma’s successful effort to secure federal funds to assist in the rebuilding of Oklahoma City in the wake of the bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building on April 19, 1995. “As an enrolled member of the Chickasaw Nation, I am very proud of my heritage and the tremendous accomplishments of tribes in Oklahoma and across our country,” said Cole in a prepared statement. “The U.S. Constitution and the federal government recognize that Native American tribes are sovereign entities with separate governments and rights that should be honored and respected. “Native Americans are aggressively working toward building Native economies and governments, and I am committed to making sure they have the tools and resources to continue these efforts,” he said. “Through numerous treaties, as well as legislation, the United States has promised to provide this care, and I will work to make sure these promises are kept.” Tickets to attend the 2016 Red Earth Ambassador of the Year Luncheon may be purchased online at www.redearth.org and are $75 per person and $750 for a Patron Table of eight. Proceeds from the luncheon benefit the year-round programming of Red Earth its exhibits, events and educational programs. For more than 30 years, the 501 (c) 3 non-profit Red Earth, Inc has been recognized as the region’s premier organization for advancing the understanding and continuation of Native American traditional and contemporary culture and arts. The Red Earth Art Center, at 6 Santa Fe Plaza in downtown Oklahoma City, hosts a diverse and changing schedule of art exhibitions and is custodian of a permanent collection of over 1,400 items of fine art, pottery, basketry, textiles and beadwork. ### Link to original release
09.13.2016	Washington, D.C. — The International Franchise Association (IFA) named Representative Tom Cole (R-OK) as the 2016 Legislator of the Year during IFA’s Franchise Action Network Annual Meeting. The Legislator of the Year Award is given to lawmakers who consistently support a pro-franchising, pro-business agenda. “We applaud Rep. Cole’s tireless efforts and continued leadership on critical policy initiatives that impact our nation’s franchise economy,” said IFA President & CEO, Robert Cresanti, CFE. “As Chairman of the House Appropriations subcommittee that oversees labor issues, Rep. Cole has illustrated time again his relentless commitment to the Americans, and we are eternally grateful for his continued support.” Cole was elected to Congress in 2002 and is currently serving in his seventh term in the U.S. House of Representatives. Identified by Time Magazine as "one of the sharpest minds in the House," Cole is a tireless advocate for small businesses and taxpayers, supports a strong national defense and is a leader on issues dealing with Native Americans and tribal governments. Cole understands that labor ecosystem and that it requires both employers and employees to function. Since 2009, Cole has served on the House Appropriations Committee, where he is Chairman of the Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies. He is also assigned to the Subcommittees on Defense and Interior. In 2015, Cole was reappointed to the House Budget Committee for the third consecutive Congress, and since 2013, has served on the House Rules Committee. In addition, Rep. Cole serves as a Deputy Whip for the Republican Conference and is a member of the Republican Steering Committee. “Small business owners – the backbone of Main Street -- are often met with excessive regulatory and tax barriers that choke innovation and discourage job creation,” said Rep. Cole. “Too often, these regulations create a barrier to entrepreneurs from entering the marketplace. That not only shatters the American Dream for a would-be entrepreneur, it prevents the creation of jobs that would have lifted other hardworking Americans as well.” According to Rep. Cole, “small businesses are truly the backbone of our economy, and our future success depends on their continued success. In order for small businesses to be established, create jobs and remain open, the environment must encourage and allow them to thrive. I remain committed to clearing red tape to help them succeed.” “It is truly an honor to be represented by such an exemplary Member of Congress – one that genuinely cares about our labor force and supports policies that will continue to grow the franchise economy,” said Robert Funk, Chairman of the Board and CEO of Express Employment Professionals, headquartered in Oklahoma City, OK. “We applaud Representative Cole’s leadership and express our sincerest appreciation for his continued support for the franchising industry and its millions of employees across the country.” Each year, millions of Americans start businesses, find jobs and gain skills through franchising. To help share the stories of franchise owners across the country, IFA kicked off its @OurFranchise tour, sharing the experiences of local franchise business owners and how their employees are supporting their communities, creating jobs and business ownership opportunities. According to a new research study on the economic impact of franchising commissioned by IFA, there are 732,842 establishments creating more than 7.6 million jobs, generating $674 billion in economic output and 2.5 percent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) for the U.S. economy. The also includes the franchise industry’s contributions to the U.S. economy at the national, state, and congressional district level. Cole was recognized at IFA’s Franchise Action Network Annual Meeting, which brings together more than 300 franchise business leaders to raise awareness with policymakers and other D.C. influencers about the industry’s continued successes and economic contributions. ### About the International Franchise Association Celebrating 56 years of excellence, education and advocacy, the International Franchise Association is the world's oldest and largest organization representing franchising worldwide. IFA works through its government relations and public policy, media relations and educational programs to protect, enhance and promote franchising and the more than 733,000 franchise establishments that support nearly 7.6 million direct jobs, $674.3 billion of economic output for the U.S. economy and 2.5 percent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). IFA members include franchise companies in over 300 different business format categories, individual franchisees and companies that support the industry in marketing, law, technology and business development. Link to original release
08.02.2016	Norman, OK – Congressman Cole released the following statement regarding the passing of Major General John Rossi, the former Commanding General at Fort Sill. “I am deeply saddened and shocked at the passing of our friend Major General Rossi," said Cole. "He was a distinguished soldier with a brilliant record of service and leadership. My thoughts and prayers are with his family during this difficult time. He will be missed.” ###
07.29.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the state of Florida confirmed that the four diagnosed cases of the Zika virus were caused by domestic mosquitos. The House of Representatives has provided more than $1.1 billion for the Zika response efforts, but it has yet to pass in the Senate. “The news from Florida is an alarming sign that Zika has started to seriously make its way to the United States,” said Cole. “We cannot simply stand by and let this virus spread, when we know we have the resources readily available. The Zika Conference Report is an immediate implementation of response efforts, and sadly, the Democrats have no sense of urgency or a timeline to get this through the Senate. Time and time again we have fought to get this funding of more than $1.1 billion passed in the other chamber, but the Democratic priority has been to ignore our veterans and military, which are included in the same bill, and ignore the threat that is now on our shores.” ###
07.26.2016	Norman, OK – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) announced the following schedule of town hall meetings for the month of August. August 2, 2016 Newcastle, OK Pioneer Library System, Newcastle Public Library 705 NW 10th St, Newcastle, OK 73065 12:00 PM August 23, 2016 Purcell, OK Purcell City Hall 130 West Main Street, Purcell, OK 73080 12:00 PM August 30, 2016 Frederick, OK Great Plains Tech Center 2001 E Gladstone Ave, Frederick, OK 73542 12:00 PM If you have any questions regarding the upcoming town halls, please contact the Norman office at (405) 329-6500. ###
07.15.2016	Washington, D.C. - House Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers, along with Senate Appropriations Chairman Thad Cochran and other senior members of the House and Senate committees, today sent a joint letter to President Obama urging White House action on Zika funding. Senate Democrats today again blocked legislation that would immediately fund efforts to prevent and fight the spread of the Zika virus. Chairmen Rogers and Cochran wrote that given the critical need for these funds and absent the funding that was blocked today, the White House should “aggressively use funds already available to mount a strong defense against the virus.” The full text of the letter is below:July 14, 2016 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: Your Administration has asked Congress to provide additional resources to prepare for, and prevent, the spread of the Zika virus. We have responded by both supporting the reprioritization of existing resources and passing through our respective chambers legislation that would provide additional Zika response funding. On February 18, 2016, we called upon your Administration to repurpose available funds to be spent immediately to fight the disease. On April 6, 2016, you did so through the use of existing authorities, repurposing $589 million for Zika response activities. Given the urgency of your request, we were surprised last week when Politico reported the following based on information shared by Administration officials: “The Obama administration has so far distributed only about one-sixth of the unspent Ebola funding that it diverted to combat the Zika virus.” This money is available immediately to prepare for and combat Zika, yet is seemingly not being spent. The House passed a conference report that would provide an additional $1.1 billion in emergency supplemental funding to continue to prepare for, and prevent, Zika both domestically and internationally. It is unfortunate that Democrats have blocked action on this legislation in the Senate. The conference report provides the same amount of funding that every Senate Democrat previously supported. It fully funds vaccine research, and increases funding for mosquito spraying and eradication, Zika surveillance, and advanced development of treatments and diagnostics. The conference agreement provides the same access to health services as your supplemental request, contains no new prohibition on any health service, and expands access to health services in Puerto Rico beyond your initial request. If Senate Democrats continue to block consideration of Zika legislation, we urge you to aggressively use funds already available to mount a strong defense against the virus. We also note that the fiscal year 2016 appropriations bills allow the Administration access to additional funds. The Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services has transfer authority that can be used as an additional source for Zika preparedness. The previous Secretary did not hesitate to use this authority to support the failing Affordable Care Act Exchanges. The Secretary of State also has authority to reprogram funding to provide additional foreign assistance to address the Zika virus outside the United States. We urge you to use available funding now to ensure our nation is prepared. Sincerely, Rep. Hal Rogers, Chairman, House Appropriations Committee Sen. Thad Cochran, Chairman, Senate Appropriations Committee Rep. Tom Cole, Chairman, House Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services Sen. Roy Blunt, Chairman, Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services Rep. Kay Granger, Chairwoman, House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations Sen. Lindsey Graham, Chairman, Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations For a PDF of the letter, please click here. ### Link to the original release via House Appropriations Committee
07.15.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the Senate failed to reconsider the Zika Conference Report, the legislation targeted at funding the Zika virus response efforts. The conference report had previously failed to pass in the Senate on its first attempt. “Democrats in the Senate continue to put their political agenda ahead of the immediate needs of the American people,” said Cole. “This virus remains a serious public health crisis, yet the Democrats would rather have a phony political issue than a serious effort to ensure the funding exists for the long term efforts to eradicate this disease. “Chairman Rogers, Chairman Cochran, myself and several of my colleagues have sent a letter to the President urging him to fulfill his promise to provide resources to fight Zika, and to use existing funds in the place of the funding that has not been passed in the Senate,” continued Cole. “I am deeply concerned that our efforts to fight Zika are being thwarted by Senate Democrats and the Obama White House for political purposes. This is not only wrong, it’s highly irresponsible.” A PDF of the letter can be viewed here: https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/07.14.16_zika_letter.pdf ###
07.14.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 5538, the Interior and Environment Appropriations Bill for Fiscal Year 2017. “This bill continues to provide funding to protect our natural resources and controls over-regulation from government agencies. In particular, it defunds the implementation of the Waters of the United State Rule, and additionally prohibits new greenhouse gas regulations for power plants," said Cole. "Of significant importance, it provides more than $5.1 billion for Indian Health Services and continues to fund the Bureaus of Indian Affairs and Education at $2.9 billion. I am proud that this bill prioritizes our environmental needs and ensures that our nation’s Native Americans can have confidence in our efforts to address their needs as well.” ###
07.14.2016	Washington, D.C. - The House Appropriations Committee today approved the draft fiscal year 2017 Labor, Health and Human Services (LHHS) funding bill. The legislation includes funding for programs within the Department of Labor, the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Education, and other related agencies. In total, the draft bill includes $161.6 billion in discretionary funding, which is a reduction of $569 million below the fiscal year 2016 enacted level and $2.8 billion below the President’s budget request. Funding within the bill is targeted to proven programs with the most national benefit, including medical research, public health, and biodefense. The bill also includes new funding for a comprehensive approach to combatting the nation’s opioid epidemic, and to prevent and fight the spread of the Zika virus. To make these investments, the legislation saves taxpayer dollars by cutting funding in lower-priority areas, including ineffective or wasteful programs. In addition, the legislation contains several policy provisions to improve government oversight and to block the Administration’s unnecessary and harmful regulations that hurt economic growth. The legislation also defunds existing ObamaCare programs and prohibits any new discretionary funding from being used to further implement ObamaCare. “This is the 12th and final Appropriations bill to be considered by the Committee this year. It follows the responsible lead of the legislation before it – investing in proven, effective programs, rolling back over‑regulation and overreach by the Administration that kills American jobs, and cutting spending to save hard‑earned taxpayer dollars,” House Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers said. “It includes critical funding for health and disease research, pandemic preparedness, and jobs and education programs. These are investments that will help improve American lives now, and keep us on the path for a healthier and more productive future.” “This bill achieves its goal of reducing discretionary spending by more than half a billion dollars, all the while prioritizing where funding is needed the most. Several important programs through the Centers for Disease Control and the National Institutes of Health that benefit many Americans receive a substantial increase in funding, often well beyond the amount the President requested in his budget,” LHHS Subcommittee Chairman Tom Cole said. “More specifically, the bill includes additional funding dedicated to the Zika response effort, which gives the CDC director the ability to respond more quickly to the fight against Zika. Furthermore, this bill continues to fund numerous programs that many Americans rely on including Head Start, special education, community service, and Native American programs for well-being. This bill reflects the values and priorities of the American taxpayer. It will make a difference and improve the welfare of the American people,” Cole continued. The following amendments to the FY 2017 LHHS Appropriations bill were adopted by the full committee today: Rep. Cole – The amendment makes technical and non-controversial changes to the bill and report. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote. Rep. Kaptur – The amendment adds report language directing the CDC to coordinate with other agencies and States on the public health effects of algal-blooms. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote. Rep. Ryan – The amendment adds report language directing the Bureau of Labor Statistics to conduct a study on the impacts of free trade agreements on the U.S. labor market. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote. Rep. Harris – The amendment specifies that any federal funding provided in any act of law may only be used to provide In Vitro Fertilization (IVF) treatments if such treatments do not result in the destruction of viable human embryos before embryo transfer. The amendment was adopted on a vote of 29-21. Rep. Lee – The amendment adds report language requesting a Department of Education study on the adverse impacts of school segregation. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote. The bill was adopted on a vote of 31-19. For a summary of the bill, please visit: https://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=394633 For the text of the bill, please visit: https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/bills-114hr-sc-ap-fy2017-laborhhs-subcommitteedraft.pdf For the bill report, please visit: https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/hrpt-114-hr-fy2017-laborhhsed.pdf ### Link to the original release can be found here: https://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=394649
07.06.2016	Washington, D.C. - The House Appropriations Committee today released the draft fiscal year 2017 Labor, Health and Human Services (LHHS) funding bill, which will be considered in subcommittee tomorrow. The legislation includes funding for programs within the Department of Labor, the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Education, and other related agencies. In total, the draft bill includes $161.6 billion in discretionary funding, which is a reduction of $569 million below the fiscal year 2016 enacted level and $2.8 billion below the President’s budget request. Funding within the bill is targeted to proven programs with the most national benefit, including medical research, public health, and biodefense, as well as funding for a comprehensive approach to combatting the nation’s opioid epidemic. The bill saves taxpayer dollars by cutting funding in lower-priority areas, including ineffective or wasteful programs. In addition, the legislation contains several policy provisions to improve government oversight and to block the Administration’s unnecessary and harmful regulations that hurt economic growth. The legislation also defunds existing ObamaCare programs and prohibits any new discretionary funding from being used to further implement ObamaCare. “This is the 12th and final Appropriations bill to be considered by the Committee this year. It follows the responsible lead of the legislation before it – investing in proven, effective programs, rolling back over‑regulation and overreach by the Administration that kills American jobs, and cutting spending to save hard‑earned taxpayer dollars,” House Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers said. “It includes critical funding for health and disease research, pandemic preparedness, and jobs and education programs. These are investments that will help improve American lives now, and keep us on the path for a healthier and more productive future.” “This bill achieves its goal of reducing discretionary spending by more than half a billion dollars, all the while prioritizing where funding is needed the most. Several important programs through the Centers for Disease Control and the National Institutes of Health that benefit many Americans receive a substantial increase in funding, often well beyond the amount the President requested in his budget,” LHHS Subcommittee Chairman Tom Cole said. “More specifically, the bill includes additional funding dedicated to the Zika response effort, which gives the CDC director the ability to respond more quickly to the fight against Zika. Furthermore, this bill continues to fund numerous programs that many Americans rely on including Head Start, special education, community service, and Native American programs for well-being. This bill reflects the values and priorities of the American taxpayer. It will make a difference and improve the welfare of the American people,” Cole continued. Bill Summary: Department of Labor (DoL) – The bill provides a total of $12 billion for DoL – $138 million below the fiscal year 2016 enacted level and $765 million below the President’s budget request. Within this slimmed-down amount, the bill targets increases for several worker training programs, including state grants for dislocated workers, Job Corps, and the Homeless Veterans Reintegration Program. The bill also provides responsible, adequate funding for labor enforcement and benefit protection agencies to fulfill their core missions. Employment Training Administration (ETA) – The legislation provides ETA with $9.8 billion – a decrease of $257 million below last year’s enacted level and $568 million below the President’s budget request. This total includes $849 million in mandatory appropriations for the Federal Unemployment Benefits and Allowances Account. State and local workforce training and development programs are prioritized, while lower-priority, unnecessary, or wasteful programs are reduced or eliminated. Job Corps – The bill provides $1.7 billion for Job Corps, an increase of $11.2 million over the 2016 enacted level and $54 million below the President’s budget request. The program helps unemployed young Americans receive education, job training, and employment assistance. Increases are included for safety and security improvements at Job Corps campuses across the country. Veterans Employment and Training Service (VETS) – The bill provides $285.5 million for VETS, which is $14.4 million above the fiscal year 2016 level and the same as the President’s budget request. This includes an $11.9 million increase to expand the Homeless Veterans Reintegration Program. Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) – The bill funds MSHA at $350.5 million, $25.4 million below the fiscal year 2016 enacted level and $46.9 million below the President’s budget request. The funding level reflects the declining need for various MSHA activities due to decreased mining activity across the country. Reducing Harmful Red Tape – The legislation includes several provisions designed to help U.S. businesses create jobs and grow the economy by reducing or eliminating overly burdensome government regulations, including: A new provision prohibiting enforcement of the “Fiduciary” rule; A new provision prohibiting enforcement of the “Overtime” rule; and A continuation of provisions providing flexibility in the H-2B program. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) – The bill includes a total of $73.2 billion for HHS, an increase of $2.6 billion above last year’s enacted level and $3.5 billion above the President’s budget request. The legislation targets funds to effective, proven programs that help improve the health, safety, and quality of life for Americans. National Institutes of Health (NIH) – The bill provides a total of $33.3 billion for the NIH, $1.25 billion above the fiscal year 2016 enacted level and $2.25 billion above the President’s discretionary budget request. Within this funding, the legislation includes $165 million to support activities for the National Children’s Study, $511.5 million for Clinical and Translational Sciences Awards, and $333.3 million for Institutional Development Awards (IDeA) programs. The bill also provides increases for several critical research initiatives, including: $1.26 billion, a $350 million increase, for the Alzheimer’s disease research initiative; $195 million, a $45 million increase, for the Brain Research through Application of Innovative Neuro-technologies (BRAIN) initiative; $300 million – the full requested amount – for the Precision Medicine Initiative (PMI); and $12.6 million for the Gabriella Miller “Kids First” initiative, dedicated to pediatric cancer research. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) – The legislation includes a total of $7.8 billion for CDC – $605 million above the fiscal year 2016 enacted level and $800 million above the President’s budget request. This includes $6.9 billion in appropriated funds, as well as $908 million in transfers from the Prevention and Public Health Fund. Within the total, the bill provides $390 million to fight the Zika virus. This includes: domestic and supplemental vector control activities; international and territorial Zika response efforts; and block grants for states and local communities with high potential for Zika transmission to ensure officials have flexibility to address their needs. In addition, the bill provides $300 million to create a new Infectious Diseases Rapid Response Reserve Fund, which will give the CDC Director immediate access to funds to respond to any future infectious disease emergency such as Ebola or Zika. $90 million – $20 million above the fiscal year 2016 enacted level and the President’s budget request – is included to expand efforts to combat prescription drug abuse. CDC’s Public Health Preparedness and Response programs are increased by $80 million over last year’s enacted level – for a total of $1.5 billion – to ensure that the Strategic National Stockpile and State and Local Preparedness capacity are adequate. These programs provide supplies and response efforts in the event of a bioterror attack or pandemic disease emergency. The bill also continues the longstanding prohibition against using federal funds to advocate or promote gun control. Substance Abuse and Mental Health Administration (SAMHSA) – The bill funds SAMHSA at $4.2 billion – $431 million above the fiscal year 2016 enacted level and $480 million above the President’s budget request. Within this funding, the bill provides $581 million to address opioid and heroin abuse, which is a $525 million increase above the fiscal year 2016 enacted level and $490 million above the President’s budget request. This includes $500 million for a first-ever comprehensive state grant program that will address the opioid epidemic nationwide. These discretionary funds match the mandatory funding dollar for dollar. The bill funds the Substance Abuse Block Grant at $1.8 billion – the same as the fiscal year 2016 enacted level and the President’s budget request. Criminal justice activities receive $78 million – equal to the fiscal year 2016 level and $16 million above the President’s budget request – including $60 million for drug courts. The legislation maintains a prohibition on federal funds for the purchase of syringes or sterile needles, but allows communities with rapid increases in cases of HIV and Hepatitis to access federal funds for other activities, including substance use counseling and treatment referrals. Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) The bill includes over $6.1 billion for HRSA – $218 million below the fiscal year 2016 enacted level and $168 million above the President’s budget request. The bill eliminates all funding for the controversial Family Planning Program, saving taxpayers nearly $300 million, and maintains all existing protections against federal funding for abortion. Within the total, the bill provides nearly $1.5 billion for Community Health Centers, which is the same as the fiscal year 2016 enacted level and $150 million above the President’s budget request. The bill also provides $300 million for the Children’s Hospital Graduate Medical Education program – $5 million more than the fiscal year 2016 enacted level and $300 million more than the President’s budget request. Additionally, the legislation includes $103.5 million for the Healthy Start program – the same as the fiscal year 2016 enacted level and the President’s budget request. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) – The recommendation provides $3 billion for CMS program management and operations, which is $576 million below the fiscal year 2016 enacted level and $1 billion below the President’s budget request. The bill does not include additional funding to implement ObamaCare programs, and prohibits funds for the Center for Consumer Information and Insurance Oversight and Navigators programs. Administration for Children and Families (ACF) – The bill provides $19.4 billion in discretionary funding for ACF, which is $558 million above the fiscal year 2016 enacted level and $588 billion below the President’s budget request. The Head Start program receives $9.3 billion, a $142 million increase, which supports a 1.5 percent Cost-of-Living Adjustment (COLA) increase for Head Start grantees. The bill supports the Preschool Development Grants program at $250 million. Administration for Community Living (ACL) – The bill funds ACL at $2 billion, which is $11 million above the fiscal year 2016 enacted level and $17 million below the budget request. The bill also provides $454 million – a $5 million increase – for congregate meals, and $234 million – an $8 million increase – for the Meals on Wheels program. Department of Education – The bill funds the Department of Education at $67 billion, which is $1.3 billion below the fiscal year 2016 enacted level and $2.4 billion below the President’s budget request. The bill eliminates several duplicative or ineffective education programs, and makes reductions to several other lower‑priority programs. Special Education – The bill includes $12.4 billion for IDEA special education grants to states, an increase of $500 million over the fiscal year 2016 enacted level, which will maintain the federal share of special education funding to states. Student Support and Academic Achievement State Grants – The bill includes $1 billion, $500 million above the President’s budget request, for grants that provide flexible funds to states and school districts to expand access to a well-rounded education, improve school conditions, and improve the use of technology. Pell Grants – The maximum Pell Grant award is increased to $5,935, funded by a combination of discretionary and mandatory funds. Impact Aid – The bill provides over $1.3 billion for Impact Aid, an increase of $23 million above the current enacted level. Policy Provisions – The bill includes provisions prohibiting the Department of Education from moving forward with regulations to place new requirements on teacher preparation, define “gainful employment” and “credit hour,” and dictate how states must license institutions of higher education. Other Related Agencies – Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS) – The bill includes $1.1 billion for CNCS, $13 million below last year’s enacted level and $15 million below the President’s budget request. Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB) – The bill provides an advance appropriation of $445 million for CPB for fiscal year 2019, which is the same level of advance funding provided in the fiscal year 2016 enacted level and the President’s budget request. National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) – The bill includes $215 million for NLRB – a decrease of $59 million below last year’s enacted level and $59.7 million below the President’s budget request. The legislation includes several policy provisions to stop the NLRB’s harmful anti-business regulations that impose additional and excessive costs on American businesses, result in job losses, and hinder economic growth. The provisions include: A continuation of the prohibition on use of electronic voting in union elections; A new prohibition on implementation of the representation-case procedures regulation; A new prohibition on enforcement of joint-employer standards; A new prohibition on enforcement of bargaining unit standards; and A new provision related to jurisdiction over Indian tribes. Social Security Administration (SSA) – The bill provides $11.9 billion to administer SSA activities – a decrease of $250 million from the fiscal year 2016 enacted level – to ensure those served by the program receive efficient and timely assistance and services. One‑time costs for building renovations provided in fiscal year 2016 make up a majority of the decrease. Defunding ObamaCare – The legislation contains several provisions to stop the implementation of ObamaCare – including rescinding prior-year mandatory funds and prohibiting the use of any new discretionary funding to implement ObamaCare. Protecting Life – The bill contains several provisions to protect life, including continuing all longstanding restrictions on abortion funding that have been included in the legislation in prior years. The legislation also includes the text of the “Health Care Conscience Rights Act.” To view the draft bill, please visit: https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/bills-114hr-sc-ap-fy2017-laborhhs-subcommitteedraft.pdf ### Link to the original release via the House Committee on Appropriations
07.06.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the FBI announced that former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton will not be charged due to her mishandling of classified material on a private server. “I found Director Comey’s decision and press conference to be confusing and contradictory to say the least,” said Cole. “After articulating a compelling case for prosecution, including violations of State Department policies, United State Code, and careless custodianship of classified information, he then announced that the FBI had no plans to do anything about it.” “Sadly, this is further confirmation of what many Americans have long suspected – there are one set of rules for the Clintons and another set of rules for everyone else,” Cole continued. “What makes this tawdry case even worse is the fact that Hillary Clinton has consistently misled the American people about her emails and server throughout her campaign. This is a classic cover up that will do lasting damage to the reputations of all concerned and to the confidence of the American people in our system of justice.” ###
07.01.2016	Norman, OK – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS) terminated a grant to the National Association of Community Health Centers (NACHC) after an oversight investigation by the CNCS Office of Inspector General found the latter to be out of compliance with the law regarding “doula” services in conjunction with abortion procedures. In April, Cole sent a letter to Wendy Spencer, CNCS CEO, calling for the termination of grant funding to the NACHC. “I am pleased that the grant for NACHC was not renewed – what was occurring was completely illegal and unacceptable,” said Cole. “When we saw the report presented by the Inspector General’s investigation, we were appalled that federal tax dollars were being spent on abortion services. We demanded that this program be terminated, and that CNCS cooperate to review the investigation and its practices. The evidence is clear that the law was being violated. I’m glad Congress stepped in to prevent this from happening again.” ###
06.28.2016	Norman, OK – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the Senate failed to pass H.R. 2577, the conference report directed at funding Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies, as well the Zika Response and Preparedness Act. This legislation would fund continuing military infrastructure projects and programs, and would include funding for confronting the Zika virus through Fiscal Year 2017. “I am extremely disappointed that my Democratic colleagues in the Senate have put their own political interests ahead of what is important and urgent now – continuing our fundamental promise to support our military and veterans, and fighting the growing battle of the Zika virus,” said Cole. “As a member of the bipartisan conference committee, I was pleased that the conference report included more funding for veterans and military construction than the President requested. We were diligent in our efforts to make sure that the money included for Zika was well accounted for, and equaled the requested amount by the Senate Democrats.” “Democrats simply want to avoid the payment for the Zika effort, and are exploiting a public health crisis merely for political purposes,” continued Cole. “And by doing so, they are endangering our global health and putting pregnant women at a higher risk of catching the virus. Furthermore, Democrats are failing on their commitment to our military and disregarding the needs of our veterans and active duty personnel. This is one of the most cynical political ploys I have seen, and it is shameful to push our military and our nation’s health aside just for cheap political points.” ###
06.27.2016	Norman, OK – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the Supreme Court ruled against the lower court’s decision regarding Texas abortion laws in Whole Woman’s Health v. Hellerstedt. In an earlier decision by the Fifth Circuit Court, the law would require abortion clinics to have facilities that are equivalent to outpatient surgical centers, as well as require doctors who perform abortions to obtain privileges of admitting patients to local hospitals. “It is disappointing to learn that the Supreme Court is willing to change constitutional rights for liberal interests, but fall back on protecting women and the unborn,” said Cole. “This law has not only been an advancement for safe clinical practices, but it has given judicial rights to safeguard the health of women and children. To take away these rights for life and for safety will only result in careless practices and little oversight on abortion regulations. The ruling is foolish and detrimental to the wellbeing of women across the nation, and to those who value the sanctity of life.” The law was signed into effect by Governor Rick Perry in 2013 and would have significantly cut the number of abortion clinics around the state of Texas and increase regulations on doctors performing abortions. A similar provision was enacted but placed on hold in Oklahoma, pending the outcome of this decision. ###
06.24.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) congratulated this year’s Fourth District winner of the Congressional Art Competition. A rising junior in high school from south Oklahoma City, Katie Prior is the daughter of Karen and Dave Prior. She is homeschooled and studies art with Leslie Lienau at the Conservatory for Classical Art in Edmond. Prior’s winning artwork, Firefighter Ray, was created using charcoal on Rives paper. It will be displayed in the Cannon Tunnel to the U.S. Capitol for a year and seen by thousands. A print version of the portrait will soon be on display at the Oklahoma Firefighters Museum in Oklahoma City as well. In addition to her award-winning artistic talent, Prior was recognized by the White House last year as a Champion for Change for founding the Youth Trumpet & Taps Corps, which recruits and trains high school trumpet players to perform “Taps” at military funerals. Recently featured on ABC World News with David Muir, Prior was first inspired to start the service organization when she discovered that most veteran funerals feature a recording of the anthem instead of a live bugle player. In response, she made it the mission of her Girl Scout Gold Award to change that. “I could not be more proud to have such an exceptional and talented individual representing the Fourth District as this year’s winner of the Congressional Art Contest,” said Cole. “As seen in her latest masterpiece, Katie Prior is a gifted artist whose inspiration encourages others to remember and honor the selfless sacrifice offered by those who keep us safe. Without question, Katie has a very bright future ahead, and I look forward to seeing the next waves of impact led by her passion for bettering communities.” When Prior submitted her masterpiece earlier this spring, she explained that the portrait was inspired by her uncle, who is a firefighter in Oklahoma City. “I wanted to do a portrait of him to honor the men and women who risk their lives every day running towards things that everyone else runs away from,” Prior explained. “I didn’t know what medium I wanted to use until the day I took the photo of him. He had just come back from work and his uniform smelled strongly of soot and ash left over from a fire. I knew immediately that charcoal would be the perfect medium.” "Katie began her study of classical drawing and painting at my school at the age of 11,” said Leslie Lienau. “I knew then that she had talent and she showed an earnest desire to learn. Katie is an exemplary student. She steps beyond what is required in her sometimes rigorous studies here and explores with an innovative spirit that is contagious and exciting! I am so pleased for her, yet not at all surprised!" Background on the Congressional Art Contest: Earlier this spring, high school students from across the nation were invited to enter the competition through their respective congressional offices. Entries for the Fourth District were judged by Dr. Victor Youritzin, Professor of Art History at the University of Oklahoma. ###
06.23.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) responded to the attempt by the House to override the President’s veto on the disapproval of the Department of Labor’s definition of “fiduciary.” This legislation, H.J.Res. 88, would have nullified the regulation issued by the Department of Labor to revise the term “fiduciary,” ultimately changing the responsibilities within pension and retirement planning. “I am disappointed that my Democratic colleagues have not recognized that this Administration has clearly crossed too many boundaries,” said Cole. “The Department of Labor does not have the authority, or the expertise to regulate the financial industry, and frankly, it’s another attempt by the Administration to meddle in the affairs of the private sector. Changing this rule has unwanted consequences, adversely affecting many Americans’ ability to save for retirement. It’s unfortunate that our intention to stop these burdensome regulations and the President’s abuse of the veto was rejected last night.” ###
06.23.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the Supreme Court upheld the ruling on blocking President Obama’s executive action on immigration. In United States v. Texas, the President’s Deferred Action plan would allow up to five million illegal immigrants avoid deportation. “I am pleased that the Supreme Court did not overturn the lower court’s decision,” said Cole. “Today’s ruling is further confirmation that this President cannot simply bypass Congress and rule by executive order. However, it’s important to note that the 4-4 split decision makes the upcoming presidential election and impending appointment of a new Supreme Court justice more important than ever. As we look to reform our immigration system, we must take a structured approach by first securing our borders and ensuring national security. This process begins with Congress, and not with executive overreach.” ###
06.23.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 2577, the conference report aimed at funding Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies, as well as the Zika Response and Preparedness Act. This legislation would fund continuing military infrastructure projects and programs, and furthermore would include funding for confronting the Zika virus through Fiscal Year 2017. “It is critical that we do everything we can to eradicate the Zika virus as soon as possible, and I am pleased that we’ve reached an agreement on adequate funding,” said Cole. “This bill provides more than $1.1 billion to combat the virus. It will develop vaccines and diagnostic tests, and provide local health departments the resources they need. In addition, the conference report reallocates over $700 million of the total spending from other, less critical programs. Beyond Zika, this conference report provides more money than the President asked for our military and veterans which is our fundamental responsibility. “I am confident in our commitment to never fall short in funding the fight against Zika. The battle against this virus is not a partisan issue, it’s a human issue, and I’m glad we are one step closer to ending this global threat.” ###
06.22.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after a federal judge ruled against the Department of the Interior’s standards for hydraulic fracking. The standards, released last year, would impose strict regulations against fracking on federal lands, where a large percentage of U.S. oil and natural gas derives from. “I am pleased to see that the Administration’s regulatory overreach has been recognized and overruled by the federal courts,” said Cole. “Much of our nation’s oil and natural gas production originates from hydraulic fracking, and Oklahoma has benefitted greatly from the fracking industry. Without Congressional approval, the Administration cannot impose these unauthorized regulations, and take away states’ rights for energy production. Again and again, the Administration has attempted to put environmental concerns over American prosperity. I’m glad to see energy production put back into the hands of hard-working Americans.” ###
06.21.2016	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) announced today the promotion of Teresa Davis to serve as the new Communications Director based in his Washington, D.C. office. Davis will replace outgoing Communications Director Sarah Corley. “I am pleased to have Teresa continuing to be a valued member of our team,” said Cole. “She has served in many roles and has been a dedicated member of my staff. With her knowledge of the Fourth District and hard-working attitude, she will be an excellent advocate for the constituents of my district.” Davis has been a staff member since 2014, and previously served as the Legislative Correspondent in the office. ###
06.17.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) announced that six students nominated by his office were appointed to attend military academies this coming fall. Earlier this month at his Norman district office, Cole personally congratulated Owen Gibson, Brandon Hobbs, Jonah Llanusa, Rafael Lopez, Jesse Scott and John Wirth. “Each year we have an exceptional class, and this year is no different. Without question, these individuals represent some of the best and brightest in the nation,” said Cole. “The willingness and commitment of these young men to serve reflects greatly upon their parents, their communities, their state, country and patriotism. I am honored to have a small part in their journey.” Owen Gibson of Elgin and a 2016 graduate of Elgin High School is the son of James and Rebecca Gibson. He will enter the U.S. Air Force Academy and intends to study Aerospace Engineering. “I have been truly humbled by the support of my parents, friends, and community throughout my entire life. They have made me the individual that I am today,” said Gibson. “The reason I will be attending the United States Air Force Academy is my desire to serve this great nation as an officer in the Air Force, and there is no better way to accomplish this goal.” Brandon Hobbs of Faxon and a 2016 graduate of MacArthur High School in Lawton is the son of Mike and Kerri Stephens. He will enter U.S. Air Force Academy and intends to study Aeronautical Engineering. “I decided to serve because I want to repay the veterans who fought for me by serving for them,” said Hobbs. “I want to prove that the assumptions made toward my generation are not relevant to me.” Jonah Llanusa of Midwest City and a 2016 graduate of Choctaw High School is the son of Michael and Du Sharme Carter-Llanusa. He is a gifted athlete and is one of the top football recruits for quarterback at the U.S. Naval Academy, where he aspires to pursue Special Operations. “This is an opportunity to raise the standard of excellence in myself, my family, community, state and country,” said Llanusa. Rafael Lopez of Lawton and a 2016 graduate of Eisenhower High School is the son of Angel and Luzgardarda Lopez. He will enter the U.S. Military Academy at West Point and intends to study Economics or Kinesiology. “My mind and heart are focused on West Point. I plan to push my mind and body to the absolute limit to achieve what I am chasing,” said Lopez. “I will never give up no matter what obstacles stand in my path. West Point is where I am meant to be.” Jesse Scott of Marietta and a 2016 graduate of Marietta High School is the son of Dustin and Jessica Scott. He will enter the U.S. Naval Academy and intends to study Chemical Engineering. “I hold myself to a higher academic and moral standard,” said Scott. “I strive to go above and beyond what is expected of me, and I knew attending a service academy was the optimal path for a military career.” John Wirth of Norman and a 2016 graduate of Norman North High School is the son of Joseph and Emily Wirth. He will enter the U.S. Air Force Academy and intends to study Aerospace Engineering. "Life is not so much about who we are as who we will become,” said Wirth. “The Air Force Academy offers a community of individuals who embrace hard work, integrity, excellence and the selflessness of service. I cannot think of an institution that would better prepare me for the rest of my life." Photo above shows Cole welcoming military academy appointees from the Fourth District of Oklahoma. Pictured left to right are Jesse Scott, John Wirth, Brandon Hobbs, Owen Gibson, Jonah Llanusa and Rafael Lopez. Photo is available for download and media use here. ###
06.16.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 5293, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2017. The legislation provides funding for critical security programs, military operations and readiness. Specifically, the bill provides $517.1 billion for the Department of Defense base budget and $58.6 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations and the Global War on Terror--which includes $219 billion for other defense operations and maintenance. “No matter what year it is, a well-equipped and well-trained military should always be an American priority,” said Cole. “Despite our country’s economic challenges, I am pleased that lawmakers prioritized funding for those who volunteered to protect all citizens and preserve freedom. With mounting threats abroad, it has perhaps never been more urgent to strengthen our force and maintain readiness to confront enemies wherever they might arise. I am encouraged that the funding measure rightly ensures America’s military remains the most capable, prepared and exceptional force in the world.” ###
06.12.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement in response to the tragic shooting early this morning in Orlando, which claimed at least 50 lives and represents the worst mass shooting in U.S. history. “I am deeply grieved by the horrific tragedy in Orlando that senselessly claimed dozens of innocent lives,” said Cole. “My sincerest thoughts, prayers and support go out to the families and loved ones of those lost to these cold-hearted acts of terror. Unfortunately, this nightmare is a reminder that the influence of our terrorist enemies now extends far beyond the Middle East and poses a real threat on our own soil. In the days ahead, we must remain vigilant in identifying and defeating those enemies both at home and abroad in order to prevent tragedies like this from occurring again.” ###
06.10.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), a member of the House Committee on Appropriations, released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 5325, the Legislative Branch Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2017. The measure responsibly funds Capitol complex operations, safety measures and critical renovations to historic buildings. It specifically funds the U.S. House of Representatives, Architect of the Capitol, Library of Congress, Capitol Police, Congressional Budget Office, Government Printing Office, Government Accountability Office and House committees. As part of funding for the U.S. House of Representatives, the legislation maintains the pay freeze for members enacted in 2010 and continues to reduce expenses to the taxpayer elsewhere. “Ever since Republicans reclaimed House majority in 2011, members have been leading by example and making do with less right here on the Capitol grounds. In fact, funding for House operations and member offices has been reduced by 13.2 percent to date,” said Cole. “I am pleased that the funding bill passed this week reflects fiscal responsibility and also reassures the American people that the buildings and facilities that serve as a symbol of freedom and democracy will be properly maintained and protected.” ###
05.26.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after he was appointed by Speaker Paul Ryan to serve on a bipartisan conference committee. Cole will be one of eight House Republican lawmakers tasked with finalizing comprehensive legislation to confront Zika and prevent its spread. In addition, the conference committee is tasked with negotiating legislation to fund new and ongoing military infrastructure projects and programs, assistance and benefits to serve our nation’s veterans. “There is no disagreement that we must provide adequate funds to respond to Zika. It’s the funding mechanism for doing so that remains an area of contention between Republicans and the Administration” said Cole. “As we begin this important work in conference, I am hopeful that conferees on both sides of the aisle and in both chambers of Congress will waste no time in finding common ground for confronting the virus and preventing its spread.” Upon appointing the Republican conferees, Speaker Paul Ryan said the following: "Our goal is to direct resources to where they are most needed and can do the most good. That is why we pushed the administration to release $589 million that was already in the pipeline out the door as fast as possible. Now we will work with the Senate to make sure we get this right so we can protect the public from the spread of Zika.” ###
05.25.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives this week passed H.R. 897, the Zika Vector Control Act. The legislation temporarily suspends a duplicative permit for spraying entities currently required by the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) since pesticides are already regulated by the Federal Fungicide, Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA). Removing this duplicative permit requirement makes it easier for entities to immediately spray for and control mosquitoes in order to prevent the spread of the Zika virus. “I am pleased that House Republicans again proved their commitment to responsibly fighting the Zika virus by passing the Zika Vector Control Act,” said Cole. “In the midst of a national health emergency, this legislation is a commonsense measure that quickens mosquito control efforts by empowering spraying entities to kill mosquitoes without being unnecessarily slowed down by needless and expensive government regulation. It’s a smart piece of legislation that puts public health and those most vulnerable to Zika ahead of government bureaucracy.” ###
05.24.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Sens. Jim Inhofe and James Lankford, and U.S. Reps. Markwayne Mullin, Tom Cole, Frank Lucas, Steve Russell, and Jim Bridenstine have sent a letter to the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and U.S. Department of Education (ED) demanding that the administration retract the May 13, 2016, guidance on transgender students. In the letter, the Oklahoma congressional delegation told Education Secretary, John King, and U.S. Attorney General, Loretta Lynch, that the ED and DOJ do not have the authority to unilaterally redefine the term “sex” in federal education discrimination laws to include “gender identity.” They wrote: “Redefining ‘sex’ to include ‘gender identity’ is a massive overstep by the federal government. Such a decision should not be unilaterally made by the Department of Education or the Department of Justice. Despite what your joint guidance asserts, Congress did not intend in 1972 or today to include ‘gender identity’ within the definition of ‘sex’ in prohibiting discrimination ‘on the basis of sex’. Redefining ‘sex’ to include ‘gender identity’ under Title IX would require legislative action in the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate.” The delegation also slammed the Departments for disregarding the actions states and local school districts are taking to address the issue of gender identity in their schools. They wrote: “…the federal government has made a unilateral decision without acknowledging that states and local school districts are already taking steps to address the issue of gender identity … [t]he Departments’ guidance acts to supersede established local policies and, in some instances across our nation, state law. “Worse, the guidance oversimplifies the needs of each individual student and community. State and local officials, school boards, teachers, and parents are best equipped to determine the best course of action for meeting the needs of all students. Allowing them to make the best decisions for how to serve and protect their students as they receive an education is something we should all support.” The entire letter can be viewed here. ### Contact:Donelle Harder (202) 224-4721 (Inhofe)Aly Beley (202) 224-5754 (Lankford)Liz Payne (202) 225-2701 (Mullin)Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165 (Cole)Andrew Witmer (202) 225-5565 (Lucas)Daniel Susskind (202) 225-2132 (Russell)Sheryl Kaufman (202) 225-2211 (Bridenstine)
05.23.2016	Grinnell, Iowa — At today's commencement ceremonies Grinnell College presented honorary degrees to Grinnell graduate U.S. Rep. Tom Cole, R-Oklahoma, and Claudia Swisher, a renowned educator who retired after teaching for decades at Norman North High School in Norman, Oklahoma. Cole, who graduated from Grinnell with a bachelor's degree in history in 1971, received an honorary Doctor of Laws degree. He has represented Oklahoma's 4th Congressional District since 2002 and is well known for his support of biomedical research and expanded access to early learning initiatives such as Head Start. He is a founding co-chair of the first bipartisan Congressional Pre-K Caucus launched this spring. Cole told that graduates that as he looks back on his life, he realizes that most of his regrets are for things he didn't do — "the opportunities I didn't see, the chances I didn’t take and, frankly, the service in many cases, that I didn't render. "Almost all of those mistakes occurred," he added, first, because I was afraid to take a risk, or second, because I would not take the time to complete some worthwhile task. Be willing to run a risk and be willing to take the time to see it through all the way to the end." Cole also offered advice on choosing a leader in this time of political turmoil, where the electorate is highly polarized and there's much debate, chaos and uncertainty. When selecting a leader, Cole said, "It doesn't matter whether you are on the left or the right. First, look for an institutionalist — someone who believes in the institutions of the country, who believes in fair play, who believes in open elections, who believes in the public process and understands something about the institutions he or she wants to lead. "Second," Cole said, "pick a traditionalist — not a traditionalist in the sense of traditional values, but somebody who understands the traditional values of the American people, which again focus on fair play and full debate. "And finally," he added, "pick a pragmatist. In this era of divided government, I can assure you that no one is going to get everything they want. Every political deal or personal deal or professional deal that I was ever part of typically involved some sort of negotiation. At that end of that negotiation, I always gave up more than I wanted and got less than I liked. It was always true for the person on the other side as well." As part of Grinnell College's tradition of awarding an honorary degree each year to a K-12 teacher, Swisher received an honorary Doctor of Social Studies degree. Throughout her career as a high school English teacher in Norman, Oklahoma, she fiercely believed in her students, expected them to do well and applauded them when they did. Swisher praised Grinnell College for recognizing the contributions of a classroom teacher with an honorary degree each year at commencement. She thanked her nominator, Jennifer Joy, a graduating Grinnell senior who was a student in Swisher's Reading for Pleasure class at Norman North High School. "When I knew Jennifer was coming to Grinnell," Swisher said, "I was well aware of the reputation of this place, and knew she would be challenged and nurtured. . . . This was the right place for her to grow as a person. And to be here as she graduates warms my heart." Swisher encouraged each of the 378 graduates to recall a teacher who "believed in you, supported you, pushed you, let you see yourself in a new light." "I know each of you is here today, partially because of a K-12 teacher who contributed to your success and who is proud of you," she added. "So, Class of 2016, do me a favor. Promise yourself right now, to write a short note thanking that teacher, telling him or her about your successes here at Grinnell, and your plans after graduation." ABOUT GRINNELL COLLEGE Since its founding in 1846, Grinnell has become one of the nation's premier liberal arts colleges, enrolling 1,600 students from all 50 states and from as many international countries. Grinnell's rigorous academic program emphasizes excellence in education for students in the liberal arts; the college offers the B.A. degree in a range of departments across the humanities, arts and sciences. Grinnell has a strong tradition of social responsibility and action, and self-governance and personal responsibility are key components of campus life. More information about Grinnell College is available at www.grinnell.edu. Cutline for photo: From left: U.S. Rep. Tom Cole, R-Oklahoma, meets one of his constituents — high school English teacher Claudia Swisher of Norman — before both received honorary degrees today from Grinnell College, Grinnell, Iowa. ### Contact: Lisa Lacher (641) 269-4659 (Grinnell College) Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165 (Cole)
05.19.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), a member of the House Committee on Appropriations, released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 4974, the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations legislation for fiscal year 2017. The legislation provides $7.9 billion in funding for new and ongoing military infrastructure projects and provides $73.5 billion in funding for programs, assistance and benefits to serve our nation’s veterans. Of particular importance to Oklahoma, the legislation includes $76.6 million in funding for military construction in the state, including $65 million for those located in the Fourth District. Specifically, $22 million is included for the National Guard Readiness Center in Ardmore. At Tinker Air Force Base, $17 million is included for the KC-46A tanker depot system integration laboratory and $26 million for the E-3G mission and flight simulator training facility. Altus Air Force Base will receive $11.6 million for the second phase of the construction for the KC-46A Tanker simulator training facility. In response to mismanagement and wasteful spending at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), the legislation helps ensure veterans get the care they were promised in a timely manner. The bill also recommends and funds greater VA oversight and accountability and directs modernization of the electronic health records system. Additionally, the legislation requires reports on how the VA provides services to veterans with opioid addiction and a review of the VA’s prescription practices and addiction treatment protocols The bill also includes language prohibiting the Administration’s proposed closure of the prison camp at Guantanamo Bay Naval Station and limits transfer of terror suspects out of that facility. “I am pleased that House acted responsibly to fulfill the responsibility we have to our active-duty service members, veterans and their families,” said Cole. “The funding bill passed this week reaffirms the bipartisan commitment to providing first-rate tools, resources and care to our brave individuals from the moment they commit to serve onward. I am encouraged that this legislation included solutions for confronting and correcting the inexcusable mistreatment of veterans at the VA and aims to ensure such injustice never occurs again.” ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
05.19.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after he was named a Fiscal Hero by the Campaign to Fix the Debt, a nonpartisan movement to improve America’s fiscal future. “I am honored to be recognized by the Campaign to Fix the Debt. The commitment to reforms that confront the nation’s troubled economy and restore prosperity for future generations is one that I certainly share,” said Cole. “Until we balance the federal budget and reform entitlements, the chance of paying down our massive debt will remain elusive. In the days ahead, I will continue to support legislation and policies to get the nation’s long-term fiscal house in order.” “Rep. Cole has worked through a variety of channels to draw attention and find solutions to the nation’s fiscal challenges,” said Maya MacGuineas, Head of the Campaign to Fix the Debt. “While many lawmakers have chosen to bury their heads when it comes to these issues, Rep. Cole has shown courage and leadership and has been willing to stand up for what is right for the country - even when it’s not easy to do so. The longer we wait, the more severe and difficult the choices will be to fix the debt. Yet very few Members of Congress take this problem seriously. Those who do, like Rep. Cole, deserve our thanks and praise.” For more information about the award and the Campaign to Fix the Debt, click here. ###
05.18.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 4909, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year 2017. The bill authorizes funding for our nation’s military personnel, readiness, capability and operations. In accordance with the Bipartisan Budget Agreement, the authorization for national defense is $543.4 billion with $23.1 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO). Each year, the passage of NDAA ensures that the military is trained and equipped to defend the United States, which includes maintenance and improvement of defense resources. The legislation passed today invests in those resources for confronting growing threats abroad, but it also improves the health and retirement benefits for military personnel, retirees and their families. Unlike the president’s preference, the NDAA provides for a 2.1 percent pay raise for service members. This is the second year of foundational acquisition reform passed by the House, which is intended to field technology and improve our military’s warfighting capabilities. “Despite a world that is becoming more dangerous by the day, the president has insisted on actions that have resulted in a weaker, less-capable military force,” said Cole. “Now with the rise of extremist groups abroad, the president is attempting to leverage the force that he decidedly weakened both in numbers and readiness. The president’s past actions have eroded the strength of our national defense. However, I am pleased that the House has renewed its commitment to a robust and capable military through passage of the National Defense Authorization Act. Just as our military service members answer the call to defend the United States, so too should Americans always prioritize the funding they need to be successful in whatever mission they are tasked. “It has perhaps never been more urgent to invest in the future of our military and renew our ability to project power, especially in a world where threats continue to arise. Whether it’s ISIS violently attempting to take over the Middle East or Russia bullying our friends in Ukraine, there are very real fights that won’t result in peace without American assistance and resolve." ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
05.18.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 5243, the Zika Response Appropriations Act, to confront the Zika virus and prevent its spread. Cole is an original co-sponsor of the bill and a member of the House Committee on Appropriations. The $622.1 million response measure is fully paid for through the current fiscal year by redirecting unused funds for Ebola and unused administrative costs at the U.S. Department of Heath of Human Services (HHS). The bill funds research, prevention and awareness efforts at the National Institutes of Health, Centers for Disease Control, Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority, U.S. Department of State and U.S. Agency for International Development. Any additional dollars needed for combating Zika will be fulfilled during the annual appropriations process for fiscal year 2017. “In the midst of an ever-changing health crisis, I am pleased that the House offered a thoughtful, reasoned and responsible solution for combating the Zika virus both at home and abroad,” said Cole. “Unlike the president’s request, the funding measure passed by the House is fully paid for and matches dollars with the immediate needs for research, prevention and treatment. Unfortunately, the president has not only failed to provide adequate detail for how he intends to spend the money he requested, but his request would irresponsibly add to the national debt. “Beyond the measure passed this week, it is also important to set the record straight on what has already been done to respond to Zika. For Democrats to suggest that the Administration hasn’t already had adequate funding available to immediately confront the emergency is untrue. In addition to the funding measure passed by the House, nearly $600 million has already been deployed for this purpose and been at the disposal of the Administration for dealing with the crisis—using money left over for Ebola and unused HHS administrative costs. Moreover, hundreds of millions of dollars will be considered and dedicated through annual appropriations bills to deal with the ongoing Zika crisis. The real difference between the Administration’s approach and the Republican approach is that Republicans actually pay for the necessary activities, including vaccine development and mosquito control, without adding to the national debt. “Certainly, Congress is ready and willing to ensure immediate and effective response to eradicating the Zika virus in order to protect those most vulnerable. I am pleased that lawmakers in the House did just that in a fiscally responsible manner,” concluded Cole. Cole managed the rule for consideration of H.R. 5243 earlier today. Video of his opening remarks is available here. ###
05.13.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after a federal judge weighed in this week on House v. Burwell and ruled that the Obama Administration unlawfully used taxpayer dollars to fund portions of Obamacare. “I am very encouraged by the latest federal court ruling related to the president’s healthcare law and the taxpayer dollars funding it,” said Cole. “Because of the court’s decision, the American people can rest assured that the Constitution will be respected and the president’s power will not go unchecked.” ###
05.13.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed 18 bills this week to address opioid abuse and addiction. The legislation specifically aims to improve recovery resources and strengthen oversight of recovery programs funded by the government. At the conclusion of votes in the House this week, the bills were combined into one legislative package and directed for conference passage in the Senate. “There is a rampant health crisis that is destroying families and communities across our nation,” said Cole. “Opioid addiction and drug overdose has turned into a shocking epidemic that impacts people from all walks of life. We cannot stand idly by. In response, I am pleased to report that the House acted in a strong bipartisan manner and passed several measures that seek to end the crisis, protect future generations and ensure that those suffering get the help they need to recover before it’s too late.” ###
05.13.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) responded to the Obama Administration’s directive issued today requiring public schools to open access to bathrooms for transgender students. “Regardless of one’s views on gender identity, President Obama’s decision to threaten school districts with loss of federal funds to accomplish his liberal objectives is outrageous,” said Cole. “His latest attempt to push his extreme agenda represents everything Oklahomans dislike about a strong federal government. It is absolutely inappropriate for the nation’s highest elected official to use threats in order to force his own views of morality and normalcy on states and localities, even if those views aren’t shared by the majority of the people living there. “The president’s latest action is extremely inappropriate and perhaps unconstitutional. States are already confronting the issue of gender identity effectively in the ways that best fit the lifestyle, beliefs and culture of each state. To impose guidance on morality and withhold funds in cases of noncompliance is shameful.” ###
05.10.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after last night’s deadly tornadoes that tore through Oklahoma, causing massive destruction and claiming two lives in Garvin County and Johnston County. “While Oklahomans know to expect the possibility of severe weather around this time each year, that doesn’t make it any less devastating when it comes,” said Cole. “I am very grieved to hear that the most recent storms caused major destruction and loss of life in the Fourth District. My sincerest thoughts and prayers are with those directly impacted across the state who must pick up the pieces from the monstrous storms. “As we know all too well, tornadoes can form at a moment’s notice and offer little warning. Considering how quickly we must respond and seek shelter to stay safe, I am grateful for the dedication of our local and national weather services, who keep Oklahomans informed and forewarned. “In the days and weeks ahead, my office will be doing everything we can to help Fourth District residents affected by severe weather. If you have questions or concerns, please contact my Norman office at (405) 329-6500.” ###
05.05.2016	Norman, OK – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) announced expanded authority over all tobacco products, including e-cigarettes, pipe tobacco, hookah and cigars. “The FDA’s announcement today that it plans to regulate all tobacco products is just another example of the Obama Administration’s regulatory overreach and nanny-state mentality,” said Cole. “This regulation takes an overly-broad approach to regulating these products. While we can all agree that tobacco products should not be marketed to children, I still believe that my bipartisan amendment, recently approved by the Appropriations Committee in the Agriculture Appropriations bill, provides the same framework for new tobacco products without needlessly subjecting small businesses to unnecessary regulations and without treating law abiding adults like naïve children.” Link to Cole’s amendment is available here. ###
04.26.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies, sent a letter to Wendy Spencer, CEO of the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS), in response to troubling findings related to an investigation by the CNCS Office of Inspector General (OIG). The CNCS OIG report was released today. CNCS oversees AmeriCorps programs that operate under federal grants. The report reveals that the National Association of Community Health Centers (NACHC), which received a grant through the AmeriCorps Community HealthCorps program, trained AmeriCorps members to act as “doulas” during abortion procedures at three community health center sites in New York and did not consult with the CNCS on this matter for two years. Allowing AmeriCorps participants to participate in such activity is prohibited by the Serve America Act. In response, Cole called on Spencer to immediately terminate and not renew HealthCorps grants to the NACHC and also initiate an investigation into all grantees and sub-grantees of AmeriCorps programs to ensure no other violations exist. Cole also sent a letter to the HHS Office of Inspector General requesting an investigation to ensure that community health centers are abiding by federal restrictions on funding for abortion procedures. “I am outraged by the terrible misuse of taxpayer dollars under the direction of the National Association of Community Health Centers,” said Cole. “While participating in the Community HealthCorps program, it is absolutely unacceptable that AmeriCorps members were wrongfully instructed and encouraged to assist in abortion-related procedures and services at community health centers. Such activity is expressly prohibited by federal law. Abortion-related procedures should never be funded by taxpayers. Given these disturbing developments, I believe this grantee should be immediately terminated from the HealthCorps program.” A copy of the letter sent to CNCS is available here, and the letter to HHS is here. ###
04.19.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) remembered the tragic bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building bombing that took place 21 years ago today in Oklahoma City and claimed 168 innocent lives. “Twenty-one years ago today, Oklahoma experienced the worst act of domestic terrorism in American history,” said Cole. “One hundred sixty-eight precious lives were lost, and hundreds more were injured and permanently scarred. As we sorrowfully pause to remember those taken, we also grieve with the many families, loved ones and friends they left behind. We remain forever grateful for the heroic acts of rescue and recovery exhibited by first responders, the strong leadership displayed by our governing officials and the extraordinary outpouring of love from communities far beyond the borders of our state.” ###
04.15.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) joined co-chairs Joaquin Castro (TX-20), Richard Hanna (NY-22) and Katherine Clark (MA-05) in launching the first-ever Congressional Pre-K Caucus this week. Currently consisting of 26 members on both sides of the aisle, the caucus is meant to highlight the importance of access to early education. “The success of future generations depends on the investment made in our children during the earliest and most formative years,” said Congressman Cole. “When kids are given the opportunity to build an early foundation for learning, they are much more likely to thrive in education at every grade thereafter. That’s why I’m proud to partner with my colleagues in launching the bipartisan Pre-K Caucus, which will draw important attention to the benefits of early childhood education.” “Completing high-quality pre-kindergarten sets kids up to succeed academically and professionally,” said Congressman Castro. “Investing in our kids early on will yield long-term benefits for our nation by strengthening our future workforce and increasing America’s competitiveness around the world. I look forward to working with my fellow co-chairs and other Pre-K Caucus members to highlight the value of high-quality pre-kindergarten and identify policies that will increase early learning in the United States.” “High-quality early learning guarantees a reduction in spending on entitlements, welfare and incarceration,” said Congressman Hanna. “It also lowers obesity rates, helping to reduce healthcare costs. By focusing on early education we can begin to break the back of intergenerational poverty, producing more taxpayers and a more competitive America through a better-educated, growing middle class. We cannot guarantee every child equal success in life, but we can promise them the opportunity to be successful. I hope this Congressional Pre-K Caucus is the beginning of a sustained bipartisan conversation on how expanding access to early education will make our economy more competitive and ensure each child has the opportunity to reach his or her full potential. One in four children starts their life in poverty. Through our efforts, we can help ensure their lives do not end in poverty.” “Access to affordable, high quality early childhood education is as close to a silver bullet as we are going to find to solve our economic challenges,” said Congresswoman Clark. “We started the Pre-K Caucus because our investments in our youngest learners are the strongest investments we can make in the future successes of our economy.” ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
04.14.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) this week unveiled his redesigned official website. While the web address (www.cole.house.gov) and some of the content remains the same, the look is all new and the feel is intended to be more user-friendly. “As Congressman for the Fourth District of Oklahoma, I am thrilled to launch a website that better serves and informs my constituents,” said Cole. “The updated design not only celebrates the district I have the great honor to represent, but my online office helps constituents contact and stay in touch with me as I work on their behalf.” The homepage includes a feature rotator that shares recent announcements, pictures and videos. The front page also includes latest news from Cole’s work in Congress, including statements and columns about legislation introduced, current issues in the news and votes cast on behalf of the Fourth District. In addition, constituents can search legislation, subscribe to Cole’s e-newsletter, connect on social media (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Instagram), send in stories for #FourthDistrictFriday and learn more about his stances on various issues. Design highlights include three rotating Fourth District background images that appear as users click around the website. All Oklahoma photography was graciously provided for use on the site; the Oklahoma wheat field landscape photo was provided by the Chickasaw Nation of Oklahoma, the Turner Falls image was provided by the Oklahoma Tourism & Recreation Department and the picture of OU’s campus was provided by the University of Oklahoma. Cole also released an updated press kit, which includes an updated biography and headshot. It is available for download here. ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
04.13.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), a member of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement after the Appropriations Committee passed the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations legislation for fiscal year 2017. With $81.6 billion in total discretionary spending, this legislation provides funding for new and ongoing military infrastructure projects and provides funding for programs, assistance and benefits for our nation’s veterans. Of particular importance to Oklahoma, the legislation includes $76.6 million in funding for military construction in the state, including $65 million for those located in the Fourth District. Specifically, $22 million is included for the National Guard Readiness Center in Ardmore. At Tinker Air Force Base, $17 million is included for the KC-46A tanker depot system integration laboratory and $26 million for the E-3G mission and flight simulator training facility. Altus Air Force Base will receive $11.6 million for the second phase of the construction for the KC-46A Tanker simulator training facility. In response to mismanagement and wasteful spending at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), the legislation helps ensure veterans get the care they were promised. The bill also recommends funds for greater VA oversight and accountability and includes $260 million for modernization of the health records system. “I am proud that the Appropriations Committee is wasting no time in considering legislation to fund the vital tools and resources for our active-duty service members, veterans and their families,” said Cole. “The legislation advanced out of committee reflects the bipartisan commitment to providing first-rate tools, resources and care to our brave individuals from the moment they commit to serve onward, including funding to implement solutions that ensure our veterans receive care in a timely manner. I am particularly pleased that the legislation invests in the military installations located across the state of Oklahoma.” The legislation approved by the committee included an amendment, offered by Chairman Hal Rogers, that allows the Obama Administration to confront Zika by using unexpended funds already appropriated for Ebola. ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-616
04.13.2016	Washington, DC – Representative Tom Cole has been named as a recipient of the 2016 Thomas Jefferson Award. The award is presented by the International Foodservice Distributors Association to lawmakers who support the free enterprise system. IFDA members touch American lives every day, helping restaurants and other food-away-from-home customers deliver a great dining experience. The Thomas Jefferson Award recognizes legislators whose work in Washington will help distributors accomplish this mission. During each Congress, IFDA presents this award to Senators and Members of Congress who demonstrate, through their voting record, a commitment to increasing economic opportunity and reducing government regulation. The 2016 award is based on votes during the 114th Congress on issues critical to the health of the foodservice distribution industry and the nation's overall economy. "The foodservice distribution industry is pleased to thank Representative Cole for supporting policies that will help our members grow their businesses," said IFDA President and CEO Mark S. Allen. "Our industry still believes that Thomas Jefferson's vision of a strong free enterprise system, with limited government involvement in the economy, is the path to prosperity. We appreciate Representative Cole's support for our industry." The program was introduced in 1992 and was inspired by Thomas Jefferson, who in his first inaugural address said, "A wise and frugal government ... shall leave men ... free to regulate their own pursuits of industry and improvement, and shall not take from the mouth of labor the bread it has earned. This is the sum of good government." IFDA members, deliver food and related products to restaurants, schools, hospitals, nursing homes, and other foodservice operations. Our members include broadline, systems, and specialty foodservice distributors who operate nearly 800 distribution facilities across the United States and deliver approximately 28 million cases of foodservice products to professional kitchens each day. To learn more about how food gets to your favorite restaurant, go to www.ifdaonline.org/foodservice-distribution. ### Link to original release
04.12.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Tom Cole, R-Okla., received the Champions for Children award Tuesday during the Invest In Kids Advocacy Summit, hosted by Save the Children and Save the Children Action Network (SCAN). “Without question, the success of future generations depends on the investment made in our children during the earliest years,” said Cole. “I am honored to be recognized by Save the Children for my support of early education programs like Head Start that aim to give disadvantaged students a better chance at a brighter future and quality education.” Senators Kelly Ayotte, R-N.H., Susan Collins, R-Maine, and Chris Coons, D-Del., also received the award. “We are honored to present these awards to these champions for kids,” said Carolyn Miles, President & CEO of Save the Children. “We’d like to thank them for their dedication to improving access to high-quality early childhood education here and ending the preventable deaths of mothers and children around the world.” “The Summit is all about advocates from across the country coming together and using their voices to make positive change for children around the world – and much of this change would not be possible without their support,” said Mark Shriver, President of SCAN. More than 175 advocates traveled to Washington this week to urge lawmakers to make key investments in early childhood education and maternal, newborn and child survival programs. Specifically, attendees asked lawmakers to cosponsor the Social Impact Partnership Act, the Reach Every Mother and Child Act and to invest more in effective global health and nutrition programs. During the 2016 Advocacy Summit, advocates – including 65 high school and college students – from 25 states participated in more than 100 meetings on Capitol Hill. Save the Children gives children in the United States and around the world a healthy start, the opportunity to learn and protection from harm. We invest in childhood — every day, in times of crisis and for our future. Follow us on Twitter and Facebook. Save the Children Action Network is the political voice for kids. We believe that every child deserves the best start in life. That’s why we’re building bipartisan will and voter support to make sure every child in the U.S. has access to high-quality early learning and that no mother or child around the globe dies from a preventable disease or illness. By investing in kids and holding leaders accountable, we are helping kids from birth to age five survive and thrive. ### Contact: Brendan Daly (646) 520-7203 (Save the Children)Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165 (Cole)
04.12.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) mourned the passing of Marjorie Brown, who made lasting contributions to the Republican Party in the Fourth District and statewide. “I was very sad to hear about the passing of Marjorie Brown of Ardmore, Oklahoma. For many years, Marjorie was the heart and soul of the Republican Party in Carter County and a force to be reckoned with in the Fourth District and across the entire state of Oklahoma,” said Cole. “No one worked harder for our party and its candidates. She was not only hardworking, she was incredibly effective. In fact, during her tenure as GOP Chair of Carter County, Republicans won every legislative seat within or attached to her home county. “On a personal note, Marjorie was a dear friend whose advice and counsel I sought on many occasions. She was a person of great wisdom, profound personal integrity and deep faith. My thoughts and prayers are with her family, loved ones and countless friends. Marjorie will be greatly missed.” ###
04.06.2016	Washington, D.C. - Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers, along with State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee Chairwoman Kay Granger and Labor, Health and Human Services Subcommittee Chairman Tom Cole responded today to the Administration’s announcement that federal agencies will use existing funding for efforts to address the Zika epidemic. In February, the Chairs called on the Administration to tap into these existing funds to provide the quickest and most efficient response to the Zika outbreak. The statement follows: “Recent outbreaks – including the devastating Ebola virus – have highlighted the necessity of a rapid, direct, and strategic response to global health crises. It is clear that Zika poses a real threat to public health, and the United States must respond quickly to address the current situation and be prepared for the potential spread of this disease within our borders. “That is why more than a month ago we called on the Administration to use existing funding and legal authorities to provide the most immediate and effective response to the Zika outbreak. We are pleased to hear today that federal agencies are heeding our call. These resources – which the agencies already have on hand – will help stop the growth of this devastating disease around the world, and prepare for and protect against outbreaks within our borders. “We will look carefully at the details of today’s proposal by the Administration to ensure the best and most effective use of these funds, and to provide proper oversight. As we move forward, the Appropriations Committee will continue to monitor the changing needs resulting from this unpredictable crisis to assure the resources necessary for the response are available.” ### Link to original release Contact: Jennifer Hing (Appropriations) Sarah Corley (Cole)
03.22.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement in response to the tragic terrorist attacks today in Brussels, Belgium. “I am deeply grieved to hear of the despicable acts of terror in Brussels,” said Cole. “Without question, my prayers and thoughts are with our Belgian allies as they face this unexpected and truly horrific tragedy. Unfortunately, these senseless attacks are a sobering reminder that, due to the rapidly-spreading influence and violence of ISIS beyond its center in the Middle East, the world we once knew is not safe. Unless and until we stand in strong resolve with our allies, conflicts around the world are only likely to escalate. In the days ahead, we must be vigilant in not only identifying terrorist threats but decisive in defeating them.” ###
03.21.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) mourned the loss of Lew Ward, who founded Enid-based Ward Petroleum Corporation in 1971. “Lew Ward was one of the country’s most successful and innovative oil and gas executives. He was also a dedicated Republican who generously supported his party and its candidate at every level in good years and bad,” said Cole. “Like others who have served as Republican Party officials, I was so grateful for Lew Ward’s generous and continuous donations to Republican candidates and causes. Lew was a rock solid Republican, who believed in limited government, low taxes, the free enterprise system and a strong national defense. He recognized that without a strong party structure, Republicans could never be successful. “Lew supported the Republican party in every way possible. He served as a precinct and county official, attended countless county, state and national party meetings and believed in the future of the Republican Party long before it became the majority in Oklahoma. Every Republican state chairman and every Republican candidate knew that Lew Ward was in their corner. “Lew and his wonderful wife Myra have been civic, philanthropic, business and political leaders in Oklahoma for literally decades. My sincerest prayers and thoughts are with Myra and the family during this difficult time. Lew will be deeply missed by all who had the good fortune of knowing him,” concluded Cole. ###
03.16.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after President Barack Obama announced his nomination of federal appeals court judge Merrick Garland to the Supreme Court. The president’s nomination follows the unexpected death of Justice Antonin Scalia last month. “Under the Constitution, it may be the president’s prerogative to nominate a replacement for Justice Scalia, but the Senate has no obligation to act on that nomination,” said Cole. “The will of the American people, which will be expressed in the upcoming presidential election, should weigh heavily in the nomination of the next Justice of the Supreme Court. The Senate has no obligation to rubber stamp President Obama’s nomination and is right to wait until the citizens have had their chance to weigh in.” ###
03.15.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), a member of the House Committee on the Budget, released the following statement after the committee released its budget blueprint for fiscal year 2017. The balanced budget proposal unveiled today repeals Obamacare, reduces the deficit by $7 trillion, cuts spending by $6.5 trillion, reforms entitlements and offers real solutions to grow the economy. “Unlike every single one of President Obama’s proposals to date, the budget vision offered by House Republicans points the nation in a financially responsible direction and actually balances without raising taxes on hardworking Americans,” said Cole. “Like previous budgets proposed by House Republicans, I am pleased that the latest blueprint strengthens health and retirement programs, reforms the wasteful entitlement spending driving our debt and ultimately provides a better environment for job creation and economic growth. “As the nation’s debt continues to climb at a dangerous rate, time is not on our side. While Republicans have consistently recognized that difficult decisions must be made to slow down and pay down our debt, it will require bipartisan cooperation in the days ahead to make it reality,” concluded Cole. ###
03.15.2016	Washington, D.C. – The Bipartisan Policy Center presented its inaugural Congressional Patriot Award to Reps. Sam Johnson (R-TX) and John Lewis (D-GA) in a ceremony this evening at the Library of Congress. BPC’s biennial Congressional Patriot Award recognizes two members of Congress—one Republican and one Democrat—who place the interests of the nation above all else in a manner that brings credibility and honor to the institution. “Our nation and our Congress are challenged by a complex array of interests, ideology, and demands. Despite the strain of pluralism, there are some with the unique capacity to guide our nation in common purpose,” said BPC President Jason Grumet. “Sam Johnson and John Lewis have demonstrated unrivaled courage in the face of injustice. We believe it is this same fearlessness that enables great legislators to overcome differences and govern a diverse nation.” The evening included remarks from House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) and House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), and Reps. John Larson (D–CT) and Tom Cole (R–OK). Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) and esteemed civil rights leader Ambassador Andrew Young, Jr. were also present to bestow the awards to Johnson and Lewis. Larson and Cole—two champions of the Congressional Patriot Award—introduced a bipartisan resolution in the U.S. House of Representatives recognizing the establishment of the award and acknowledged the heroism of Johnson and Lewis on the House Floor. “I commend the Bipartisan Policy Center for their recognition of perhaps two of the finest Members of Congress,” said Larson. “Reps. Sam Johnson and John Lewis are admired across generation and across the nation. These two men prove that true patriotism transcends political party.” “I am very pleased that the Bipartisan Policy Center has chosen to acknowledge the heroic contributions of members of Congress with the Congressional Patriot Award,” said Cole. “For such a distinct honor, it is indeed fitting that the first recipients will be Reps. Sam Johnson and John Lewis. Without question, their sincerity, selflessness and patriotism reminds us all of our duty to put nation first.” The evening also featured David Rubenstein, co-founder and co-CEO of The Carlyle Group, who moderated a wide-ranging discussion with the honorees. ### Link to original release
02.25.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) took to the House Floor to acknowledge the Bipartisan Policy Center’s recent establishment of the Congressional Patriot Award. This award will be bestowed to Reps. Sam Johnson (TX-03) and John Lewis (GA-05) in light of their courage and heroism. “I commend the Bipartisan Policy Center and my honorary, co-chairman Tom Cole for their recognition of perhaps two of the finest Members of Congress,” said Larson. “It is a privilege to serve both with Rep. Johnson and Rep. Lewis, both of whom have demonstrated tremendous bravery and sacrifice throughout their lives. Many know of the beating and suffering Rep. Lewis endured when he made that historic trip across the Edmund Pettus bridge in the name of equality and civil rights. Fewer know of Rep. Johnson’s courage and resilience as a POW during the Vietnam War, where he too faced abuse at the hands of his captors and unthinkable stretches in solitary confinement. These two Congressman are living testimonies to American heroism, and they show that patriotism transcends political party.” “I am very pleased that the Bipartisan Policy Center has chosen to acknowledge the heroic contributions of current and former members of the U.S. House of Representatives with the Congressional Patriot Award,” said Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04). “For such a distinct honor, it is indeed fitting that the first recipients will be Reps. Sam Johnson and John Lewis. Before they were elected to serve in the House, both of these men showed unmistakable dedication to preserving, protecting and improving our country. As a former POW and combat veteran from the Vietnam War, Sam Johnson was tested and tried through unimaginable suffering that few will ever experience. An advocate for human rights and civil liberties, John Lewis similarly suffered along the Edmund Pettus Bridge while advancing a dream to change the direction of society. Without question, their sincerity, selflessness and patriotism makes them individuals worthy of the highest admiration.” The Congressional Patriot Award will be presented to Reps. Johnson and Lewis at a March 15th ceremony at the Library of Congress. On Feb. 4th, Rep. Larson and Rep. Cole introduced H. Res. 604 recognizing the establishment of the Congressional Patriot Award and congratulating Sam Johnson and John Lewis for their patriotism and selfless service to the country. The resolution currently has 245 cosponsors. ### Contact: Amanda Schoen (202) 225-2265 (Larson)Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165 (Cole)
02.25.2016	Bethesda, MD - The Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology (FASEB) will honor Rep. Tom Cole and Sen. Roy Blunt with the FASEB Public Service Award at a reception on March 2. The awardees, Chairmen of the House and Senate Appropriations Subcommittees on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Related Agencies, spearheaded bipartisan efforts to increase funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH). As part of the fiscal year 2016 Omnibus Spending Bill, Chairman Blunt and Chairman Cole secured NIH its largest budget increase in twelve years. This boost is an important first step in reversing a 22 percent decline in the inflation-adjusted NIH budget since 2003. “Our nation’s laboratories are ground zero for the development of new technologies and treatments for devastating diseases affecting communities across the world,” said FASEB President Parker B. Antin, PhD. “FASEB is grateful to Chairmen Blunt and Cole for their commitment to invest in biomedical research. Their efforts to champion NIH will have lasting effects and will help the United States maintain its status as a global leader in research and development,” he said. The FASEB Public Service Award recognizes individuals who have made significant contributions to biological and medical research through their work in government, public affairs, journalism, science policy, or related fields. Previous recipients include NIH Director, Dr. James A. Shannon; former Deputy Directors, Dr. Ruth L. Kirschstein and Dr. Raynard S. Kington; Senators Arlen Specter and Tom Harkin; and Representatives John Porter, David Obey, and Michael Castle. FASEB is composed of 30 societies with more than 125,000 members, making it the largest coalition of biomedical research associations in the United States. Our mission is to advance health and welfare by promoting progress and education in biological and biomedical sciences through service to our member societies and collaborative advocacy. ### Link to original release
02.23.2016	Washington, D.C. - America's Public Television Stations (APTS) today presented its Champion of Public Broadcasting Award to Congressman Tom Cole (R-OK). The Champion of Public Broadcasting Award is given to political leaders and other individuals who safeguard the ability of local public television stations to provide education, public safety and civic leadership services to their communities. "Congressman Tom Cole, chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies (Labor-HHS-Education), oversees the House's funding for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB)," said APTS president and CEO Patrick Butler. "Congressman Cole's extraordinary leadership was instrumental in ensuring that the FY 2016 House Labor-HHS-Education Appropriations bill included $445 million in level funding for CPB - the first time in five years the House has proposed anything but a zero for public broadcasting. In addition, Congressman Cole's support for public broadcasting during the FY 2016 Omnibus Appropriations negotiations helped ensure the enactment of level funding for not only CPB but also the Ready To Learn education program that has proven its ability to close the achievement gap between children from low-income families and their more affluent peers. In addition, Chairman Cole helped ensure critical funding for the public broadcasting interconnection system that makes it possible for public television to serve everyone, everywhere, every day, for free, including the Native American nations of Oklahoma. Congressman Cole's central role in safeguarding these highly cost-effective federal investments is a fine example of a superb lawmaker at work. It is our great honor to present the Champion of Public Broadcasting award to Congressman Tom Cole." "Throughout the years, millions of American families have felt the benefits of the diverse programs aired on public television," said Congressman Cole. "Many of us can recall gathering with our loved ones in front of the television for that favorite weekly program or catching one of public television's outstanding documentaries. Indeed, public television has the ability to bring families closer together because it encourages them to learn together. I am honored to be recognized by America's Public Television Stations for my efforts to protect, strengthen and empower local public stations. In the days ahead, I look forward to helping them continue to serve, inform and edify communities in every city and state across the nation." The Champion of Public Broadcasting Award was presented to Congressman Cole during The APTS Public Media Summit on Tuesday, February 23, 2016. About APTS America's Public Television Stations (APTS) is a nonprofit membership organization established in 1979. The mission of APTS is to conduct - in concert with member stations - strategic planning, research, communications, advocacy and other activities that foster a strong and financially sound public television system providing essential public services to all Americans. Its affiliate APTS Action, Inc. promotes the legislative and regulatory interests of noncommercial television stations at the national level through direct advocacy and through grasstops and grassroots campaigns designed to garner bipartisan political support. For more information, visit www.apts.org. ### Contact: Stacey Karp (202) 654-4222 (APTS)Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165 (Cole)
02.23.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after President Barack Obama announced that he will submit a plan to Congress to close Guantanamo Bay and transfer some of its detainees to the United States. The prison currently has 91 remaining detainees that are either suspected or known terrorists, including the mastermind of the 9/11 terrorist attacks. “As the president’s time in office finally nears the end, he continues to advocate for the closure of Guantanamo Bay,” said Cole. “Campaign promise or not, the dangerous terrorists at Guantanamo do not belong in the United States. Unfortunately, that’s exactly what President Obama wants to allow by relocating some of the most notorious terrorists to prisons in communities across the country. I am confident that there is absolutely no chance Congress will ever approve such a dangerous and irresponsible measure that puts our national security at risk.” ###
02.18.2016	Washington, D.C. – The office of Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) is now accepting entries for the annual Congressional Art Competition. Each spring, the U.S. House of Representatives sponsors An Artistic Discovery, a nationwide competition for high school students interested in the arts and looking for an opportunity to showcase their creativity. The annual contest recognizes and encourages artistic talent of young constituents across the nation, including those living in Oklahoma’s Fourth Congressional District. The winner’s artwork is displayed for one year in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. In addition, the winning prize includes travel to Washington with a guest for a reception and award presentation, courtesy of Southwest Airlines. The Fourth District winner also becomes eligible to receive a $3,000 per year scholarship to the Savannah College of Art & Design or Tennessee Wesleyan University. All entries are accepted at one of Congressman Cole’s district offices or the Ardmore Chamber of Commerce by 5 p.m. on April 22, 2016. Those locations are listed below: Norman Office 2424 Springer Drive, Suite 201 (405) 329-6500 Lawton Office 711 SW D Avenue, Suite 201 (580) 357-2131 Ada Office 100 East 13th Street, Suite 213 (580) 436-5475 Ardmore Chamber of Commerce 410 West Main (580) 223-7765 The official entry form, contest rules and submission checklist are available here. For other questions about the competition, please contact Katie Ringer at (405) 329-6500. ###
02.13.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) mourned the loss of United States Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia, who was appointed to the nation’s highest court in 1986 by President Ronald Reagan. “Like countless others across the nation, I am stunned and deeply grieved over the loss of U.S. Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia,” said Cole. “Justice Scalia was not only a decent human being who fought to uphold the rule of law, but his philosophy made him a long and faithful friend to conservatives. My sincerest thoughts and prayers are with his family, friends and loved ones during this unexpected loss. "It is my belief that the next Justice of the Supreme Court should be nominated by the next President of the United States. The American people should have a say in this decision. They will have the opportunity to do that in November by voting for either a conservative or a liberal for president at the polls,” concluded Cole. ###
02.09.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), a member of the House Committee on the Budget, released the following statement after President Barack Obama unveiled his $4 trillion budget proposal for fiscal year 2017. “After seven long years under the Obama Administration, it should come as no surprise that the president’s final budget proposal reflects how out of touch he is with economic reality,” said Cole. “While the nation’s debt continues to climb at an alarming rate, the president ignored and missed yet another opportunity to recommend serious reforms to pay it down. Instead of choosing to lead America toward a path of fiscal responsibility, the president has again offered a wish list that taxes too much, spends too much and never ever, ever balances. This politically and philosophically unrealistic proposal, which adds nearly $7 trillion to the already high debt, stands absolutely no chance at becoming law—something the White House surely knows. “As our nation’s once-thriving energy industry continues to struggle and face setbacks, I am especially alarmed that the president wants to make matters worse by placing a $10 tax on every barrel of crude oil. This ridiculous tax would certainly lead to many more valuable jobs lost and directly impact families and households across the entire country by increasing the cost of everything that every American purchases. “Finally, while the proposals for curing cancer and combating opioid abuse are worthy goals, the president’s proposed methods are simply unacceptable budget gimmicks that irresponsibly rely on mandatory spending. Certainly, when lawmakers work together to confront these and other health concerns, we will do so within the constraints of the budget caps previously agreed to by Congress and the president,” concluded Cole. ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
02.05.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after he was named a recipient of the Teach For America Congressional Champion Award, which is given out only once every five years. Cole was one of 12 honored with the award during Teach For America’s 25th anniversary celebration this week. “Without question, one of the greatest investments we can make in our young people is ensuring all students have access to a quality education and the tools they need to succeed,” said Congressman Cole. “The importance of that investment has always been foundational to Teach For America’s mission and continues to beat proudly in the hearts of its corps members and alumni spread out across the United States. As Teach For America marks 25 years of service to children in disadvantaged circumstances, I am honored to be recognized for my support of policies and programs—like Teach For America—that help those students achieve excellence.” “Our Congressional champions have played an instrumental role in growing Teach For America’s impact in our first 25 years,” said Teach For America CEO Elisa Villanueva Beard. “Their support for critical funding and key policy provisions has helped expand educational opportunity for children growing up in poverty across the country and inspired thousands of individuals to join the fight for educational equity and excellence. I am thankful for leaders like Congressman Cole who are committed to ensuring that all children in this nation have the opportunity to attain an excellent education.” Click here to download hi-res photos. ### Contact: Sarah Corley (Cole) Jamila Reeves (Teach For America)
02.03.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after he supported H.R. 3662, the Iran Terror Finance Transparency Act. In response to the president’s implementation of the Iran nuclear agreement, the legislation passed yesterday prevents Iranian individuals and groups supportive of terrorism and the regime’s ballistic program from getting sanctions relief. “This is a common sense piece of legislation that safeguards the United States and our allies around the world by preventing money from reaching the hands of terrorists,” said Cole. “Considering that Secretary of State John Kerry has acknowledged that sanctions relief outlined by the Iran nuclear agreement will likely benefit terrorist groups, this bill is a necessary check on the Administration’s misguided foreign policy decisions. “I am particularly pleased that Oklahoma’s Fifth District Congressman Steve Russell led this important effort. Keeping Americans safe and defeating terrorism are subjects that he understands better than anyone else in Congress,” concluded Cole. ###
02.02.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after he voted to override the president’s veto of legislation to repeal Obamacare and withhold funds from abortion providers like Planned Parenthood. “Republicans have long agreed with the majority of the American people that Obamacare does much more harm than good,” said Cole. “The president’s law not only damages the economy, but it punishes more Americans than helps through higher premiums, lost coverage and unfair mandates. While it comes as no surprise that the president vetoed the legislation to repeal Obamacare and withhold public funding for abortion providers, this vote in the House shows that lawmakers will continue to fight for the conservative priorities held by their constituents.” ###
02.02.2016	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), senior member of the Senate Armed Services Committee; U.S. Sen. James Lankford (R-Okla.) and Rep. Tom Cole (R-Okla.), member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, today released the following statements about Fort Sill’s announcement regarding the vital role Fort Sill will continue to play as the Army plans for its future force structure: “I applaud Major General Rossi and the leadership of Fort Sill for taking steps now to identify and mitigate any impacts of force structure changes to the mission at Fort Sill,” said Inhofe. “Chief of Staff of the Army General Milley’s top priority is readiness of the force, and Fort Sill plays a critical role in achieving this necessary military readiness by ensuring our Army and its soldiers are trained and equipped to fight and defend this country. The importance of Fort Sill’s mission, coupled with unparalleled community and state support, has resulted in continued growth. However, the president’s irresponsible defense budgets over the past seven years have forced each of the services, especially the Army, to reduce force structure to an unacceptable and unsustainable level. The president’s disarming of America has left us with a military too small that the threats we face are outpacing our ability to deter and confront them. Until we can reverse this trend under a new administration, I am committed to working closely together with military leaders and my colleges to ensure any force structures changes do not impact our mission, our soldiers, civilians and their families.” “Our nation faces very serious world-wide security threats, and it’s more important than ever to have an Army that is resourced and trained to defeat these global dangers,” said Lankford. “I’ve expressed these concerns directly to the Secretary of Defense just last month. I’m thankful that the reductions at Ft. Sill are less than at other bases, but even more thankful for the Ft. Sill leadership that will ensure these reductions do not impact the readiness of our soldiers. There is no better partner for the Army than the men and women in Oklahoma. I will continue to work with the Army to ensure our soldiers are properly resourced and trained to meet our national security requirements, especially at Ft. Sill.” “Due to budget demands placed on the Department of Defense, the Army has made necessary adjustments to both civilian and military billets at posts across the United States,” said Cole. "While Fort Sill has been fortunate that the changes are minor, in comparison with other installations, adapting to any change is difficult. I am confident that Fort Sill will continue to find the best solutions despite budget challenges, and I will work to ensure it has the resources needed to complete its mission. I continue to believe our military’s end strength is too low, and not reflective of the global reality or potential for conflict.” Maj. Gen. John Rossi, Fires Center of Excellence and Fort Sill commanding general, announced that Fort Sill received guidance for Fiscal Year 2016 to help shape the Army force structure over the next five to ten years. Maj. Gen. Rossi and his staff have begun to analyzed and define options on how to meet Army force structure changes at Fort Sill to include the possibility of various post agencies having to limit the number of authorizations, or positions, in their organizations. By taking these steps now, Fort Sill will be able to mitigate impacts Fort Sill personnel - military and civilian - and its mission. Fort Sill’s offices, directorates, units, and agencies answer to larger major commands like Army Installation and Management Command, Army Materiel Command, Training and Doctrine Command, Forces Command, Army Medical Command and the Network Enterprise Technology Command, all major subordinate commands of the Army overall. Army direction to these commands ultimately has an impact across the Army, to include Ft Sill. Fort Sill continues to grow as a result of the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure, becoming the new home to the Air Defense Artillery School, the 30th Air Defense Artillery Brigade and the 31st Air Defense Artillery Brigade. The most recent Army reorganization decision added two FORSCOM battalions, the 2nd Battalion, 20th Field Artillery and the 5th Battalion, 5th Air Defense Artillery. These two battalions will bring about 800 soldiers and their families, which could bring the total to about 1,600 new people, to the Lawton-Fort Sill community over the next two years. The first new battalion is expected to arrive this summer and the second battalion will arrive in the second half of 2017. ###
01.21.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) announced today the names of 14 students who have been nominated from the Fourth District of Oklahoma for entry into one of America’s prestigious military academies. The schools that participate in the congressional nomination program are the U.S. Air Force, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy at West Point and the U.S. Naval Academy. The nomination process is highly competitive. Applicants are evaluated for academic performance and standing, including class rank, SAT/ACT scores and school records. Other criteria considered for nomination, by Cole and the recommendation panel, includes athletics, physical fitness, extracurricular activities, recommendations and leadership potential. Upon congressional nomination, students become eligible for appointment consideration at the service academy (or academies) to which they applied. “It is my distinct privilege to recommend several outstanding candidates from the Fourth District for an appointment to one of our nation’s fine military academies,” said Cole. “Without fail each year, I am struck by the willingness of our best and brightest to selflessly answer the call of duty. Along with their family and friends, I greatly admire these remarkable young leaders for their desire to sacrifice and serve on behalf of our country.” U.S. Air Force David Brown, Lawton – Eisenhower High School Owen Gibson, Lawton – Elgin High School Blake Graham, Duncan – Duncan High School Brandon Hobbs, Faxon – MacArthur High School Rafael Lopez, Lawton – Eisenhower High School Jonathan McGill, Marlow – Duncan High School Brendan Nash, Norman – Norman North High School Jesse Scott, Marietta – Marietta High School Matthew Seratte, Cache – Cache Senior High School John Wirth, Norman – Norman North High School U.S. Merchant Marine Academy David Brown, Lawton – Eisenhower High School Owen Gibson, Lawton – Elgin High School Blake Graham, Duncan – Duncan High School Brandon Hobbs, Faxon – MacArthur High School Rafael Lopez, Lawton – Eisenhower High School Caleb Roberts, Norman – Home School Matthew Seratte, Cache – Cache Senior High School John Wirth, Norman – Norman North High School U.S. Military Academy at West Point David Brown, Lawton – Eisenhower High School Owen Gibson, Lawton – Elgin High School Blake Graham, Duncan – Duncan High School Brandon Hobbs, Faxon – MacArthur High School Rafael Lopez, Lawton – Eisenhower High School Matthew Seratte, Cache – Cache Senior High School John Wirth, Norman – Norman North High School U.S. Naval Academy David Brown, Lawton – Eisenhower High School Khyle Easterwood-Hall, Oklahoma City – Southmoore High School Owen Gibson, Lawton – Elgin High School Brandon Hobbs, Faxon – MacArthur High School Rafael Lopez, Lawton – Eisenhower High School Brendan Nash, Norman – Norman North High School Jesse Scott, Marietta – Marietta High School Matthew Seratte, Cache – Cache Senior High School Thomas Williams, Fort Sill – Home School John Wirth, Norman – Norman North High School ###
01.20.2016	Alexandria, VA - Senator Roy Blunt (R-MO) and Congressman Tom Cole (R-OK) have been selected to receive the Edwin C. Whitehead Award for Medical Research Advocacy for their steadfast commitment to increasing investments in research to advance innovative studies focused on preventing and eradicating diseases that take a tremendous toll on families and our economy. They will be honored at Research!America’s Advocacy Awards Dinner on Wednesday, March 16, 2016 at the Mellon Auditorium in Washington, D.C. “Through their visionary work, Senator Blunt and Congressman Cole led the charge on Capitol Hill in providing the largest increase to the National Institutes of Health (NIH) budget in more than a decade,” said Research!America Chair John Edward Porter. “They inspired other policymakers to bring research to the forefront of American priorities to ensure scientists have additional resources to tackle our most threatening health challenges. Our nation reaps numerous economic and social benefits when investments in research are strengthened.” Senator Blunt and Congressman Cole, chairmen of the Senate and House subcommittees responsible for funding the NIH, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) and other key health agencies, are being honored for their extraordinary commitment to bolstering funding for medical research. Working together, these two leaders secured the largest appropriated (or discretionary) increase in NIH funding since 2003. The fiscal year 2016 omnibus appropriations bill provides a total of $32 billion for NIH overall, which includes $5 billion for the National Cancer Institute, a $350 million increase for Alzheimer’s research, $200 million for the Precision Medicine Initiative, and a $300 million CDC increase focused on disease prevention and biodefense research. “As Chairman of the U.S. Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education and Related Agencies, I was proud to secure a $2 billion increase for the National Institutes of Health this year,” Blunt said. “It’s an honor to be recognized by Research!America, and humbling to see all of the groundbreaking efforts that are underway to advance progress toward lifesaving cures. Continuing our investment in biomedical research will not only give hope to families battling disease, it will also allow our country to remain on the cutting edge of medical innovation, create jobs, and substantially lower health care costs over the long term.” Blunt serves as the Vice Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference. He is the Chairman of the Senate Rules Committee. In addition to chairing the Senate Appropriations Committee’s Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies, he serves on the Agriculture, Interior, Defense, Foreign Operations, and Transportation Subcommittees. He also serves on the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee and the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. Blunt worked with Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and introduced the Excellence in Mental Health Act in February 2013 to put community mental health centers on an equal footing with other health centers by improving quality standards and fully funding community services and offering patients increased services like 24-hour crisis psychiatric care, counseling and integrated services for mental illness. The bill was signed into law in 2014. In addition to chairing the House Appropriations Committee’s Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies, Cole is a member of the Defense and Interior subcommittees and also sits on the Budget and Rules committees. Along with spearheading efforts to increase funding for NIH and CDC, Cole co-sponsored and supported the Gabriella Miller Kids First Research Act, which was signed into law in April 2014. By redirecting taxpayer dollars from political party conventions, the law freed up additional federal funding for pediatric medical research to help overcome childhood cancer, autism and many other diseases impacting children. “Last year brought with it a truly significant moment for the future of medical research, and I consider it a great privilege to have been part of it,” said Cole. “Early on in my tenure as LHHS chair, I recognized that adequate disease research was not only a clearly unmet need in our society, but it was an issue that could and should be met with bipartisan cooperation and agreement by lawmakers. As much as I am honored to receive this award, I am even more pleased that the recent investment in research brings us much closer than before to finding cures and slowing down or even preventing diseases. I am hopeful we can build on this progress in the fiscal year 2017 appropriations process.” Research!America’s 2016 Advocacy Awards dinner honors outstanding individuals and organizations in advocacy for medical, health, and scientific research. The Whitehead Award, named in honor of Research!America founder, Edwin C. “Jack” Whitehead, recognizes exemplary leaders, particularly those in public office, who have demonstrated a deep commitment to advancing medical and health research as a national priority and who galvanize others in support of science. Other 2016 Advocacy Award winners are Harold Varmus, M.D., Lewis Thomas University professor, Weill Cornell Medicine and Nobel Laureate; John Noseworthy, M.D., president and CEO, Mayo Clinic; Trish and George Vradenburg, co-founders, UsAgainstAlzheimer’s (UsA2); Robert Langer, Sc.D., David H. Koch Institute professor, MIT; The ALS Association; and Lisa Paulsen and The Entertainment Industry Foundation (EIF). ### Link to original release Contact: Anna Briseño (571) 482-2737 (Research!America) Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165 (Cole)
01.13.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), in response to national security threats abroad and to encourage discussion and debate in Congress on U.S. military strategy, introduced legislation this week that would authorize the use of force (AUMF) against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL/ISIS) and its associated forces. Cole’s measure, H. Con. Res. 106, is similar to legislation previously introduced by Senator Lindsey Graham. As part of the authorization laid out to fight ISIL, there would be no geographic restraints on the U.S. military, no expiration on the authorization, no prohibition on sending American ground forces if needed and no restrictions on the ability of the United States to disrupt online terrorist recruitment activities, propaganda or other communications. “Considering the despicable violence caused by ISIL and the innocent blood shed, it is long past time to initiate debate in Congress and agree on a strategy to destroy this dangerous terrorist enemy,” said Cole. “Given ISIL’s rapidly spreading influence and intention to harm the United States, our allies and indeed all of humanity, I believe that Congress has the responsibility to weigh in. While I am pleased that many of my colleagues have recognized the need to take action, Congress has yet to consider a military authorization that allows the president to deal with this present threat to the security of our nation and safety of our citizens. “In the days ahead, I am hopeful that lawmakers on both sides of the aisle will engage in the relevant discussions and agree on a strategy that provides the president with the appropriate authority and most effective tools to combat ISIL. I realize that the legislation I introduced is unlikely to be the final word, but I believe it is a good place for Congress to start the discussion, debate any differences and offer suggestions for confronting the ongoing threats to our national security. But more importantly, it reignites the conversation that should be taking place in Congress to preserve the war making authority of the legislative branch.” Text of the legislation is available here. ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
01.12.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) responded after President Barack Obama delivered his final State of the Union address to Congress tonight in the chamber of the U.S. House of Representatives. “Throughout his tumultuous and controversial tenure, President Barack Obama has wasted time, words and energy claiming that America’s challenges are not of his making,” said Cole. “Rather than leading the charge to solve the real problems facing our fellow Americans, the president has greatly increased our long-term economic woes, severely underestimated and failed to address threats to our security and ignored constitutional limits to the powers entrusted to the executive branch of government. “Sadly, what we heard tonight was only more of the same. But what concerned me most was what we didn’t hear from him. I wish the president would have talked about actual ways he wants to find common ground—like proposing a balanced budget, offering a more comprehensive strategy for defeating ISIL and finding ways to immediately jumpstart the economy to have faster job and wage growth. “Despite his claims to the contrary, the president has consistently shown that he is more interested in advancing policies—like Obamacare—that add to our massive debt, instead of coming up with reforms to pay it down. Even more alarming is the president’s claim of foreign policy leadership when his clear lack of resolve and understanding of the world have undisputedly weakened America’s standing among our allies and enemies alike. “After seven long years, the sun is about to set on his administration, and yet the president’s speech indicates that he is frantically trying to rewrite history in order to salvage a legacy that history is not likely to treat favorably,” concluded Cole. ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
01.06.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Senate Amendment to H.R. 3762, the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act of 2015. While this legislation isn’t the first effort made by House Republicans to repeal Obamacare, it is the first time such a measure has been agreed to by both chambers of Congress and will be sent to the president’s desk. In addition to repeal of the president’s healthcare law, the legislation passed today withholds funds from abortion providers like Planned Parenthood and redirects taxpayer money to community health centers. “Ever since it was first signed into law in 2010, the majority of the American people have strongly opposed the president’s federal government takeover of Americans’ healthcare plans,” said Cole. “Republicans have long agreed that Obamacare not only damages the economy, but it also harms more Americans than it promised to help through higher premiums, lost satisfactory coverage and unfair mandates. At long last, I am pleased that we are joined by the Senate in this important effort that reflects conservative priorities and sends repeal to the president’s desk for the first time. “Furthermore, in response to the videos that exposed the despicable backroom practices at Planned Parenthood last year, I am encouraged that this bill rightly cuts off taxpayer funding for abortion providers and instead commits those dollars to community health centers. In the days ahead, I believe that lawmakers have the responsibility to craft a viable patient-centered alternative to Obamacare, and given the numerous proposals already presented, I am confident that Republicans will responsibly be able to do just that,” concluded Cole. Cole made remarks yesterday during Rules Committee consideration of the legislation, specifically in regards to Planned Parenthood. Video is available here. ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
01.05.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after President Barack Obama announced a series of intended executive actions on gun control. “President Obama’s plan to circumvent Congress is not only unconstitutional, his gun control plan shows utter disregard for the powers entrusted to each branch of government,” said Cole. “Further, his proposal would do absolutely nothing to prevent deranged criminals from committing horrific crimes. In fact, the president’s plan instead infringes upon the rights of law-abiding citizens and needlessly punishes those who haven’t committed any crimes. This hostility toward the Second Amendment has been an unfortunate hallmark of his presidency. “Most Americans understand that guns are tools that must be used responsibly, whether for recreational use or the protection of our families and property. While the president is clearly frustrated by his inability to push through legislation that is consistent with his extreme anti-gun ideology, that is no excuse for bypassing Congress by issuing constitutionally-dubious executive orders. I am confident that his latest actions will be successfully challenged by Congress and litigated in court,” concluded Cole. ###
12.21.2015	Washington, D.C. - Members of the Oklahoma congressional delegation today sent a letter to Secretary of the Air Force Debra Lee James urging her to consider the 138th Fighter Wing (138th FW) in Tulsa, Oklahoma, as the next home for the F-35A. The Air Force is looking for two National Guard candidate wings as future bases for the F-35A. While these aircraft would not begin to arrive until 2022 or 2023, a decision is expected to be made sometime over the next year. Criteria that will be considered in the final candidate basing decision will include training environment, facilities, personnel and overall cost to beddown and operate the F-35As. The 138th FW, located on the north end of the Tulsa International Airport, has an experienced cadre of pilots and maintainers, airspace and training ranges, and facilities ready to operate and sustain the F-35A mission. “The Air Force need look no further than the 138th FW if it is looking for the most professional and proven combat ready Airmen with unmatched community support,” said Sen. Jim Inhofe. “The support for our military, their families and their mission is unconditional in Oklahoma. There is no greater sound than the sound of freedom.” “Tulsa’s 138th Fighter Wing National Guard, and the state of Oklahoma, is well-positioned to beddown the F-35,” said Sen. James Lankford. “As the second-largest National Guard fighter wing in America, Tulsa is ideal for operating this caliber of fighter jet. Our training capabilities, infrastructure and community support makes Tulsa the ideal strategic location for this key national security asset.” “Tulsa has the infrastructure and track record to make the 138th Fighter Wing the natural choice for the future home of the F-35A,” said Rep. Frank Lucas. “I look forward to working with my colleagues in the Oklahoma delegation to support the Air Force in their basing decision.” “Without question, the 138th Fighter Wing in Tulsa is beyond qualified, prepared and supported to take on the F-35A,” said Rep. Tom Cole. “If Tulsa Air National is selected by the U.S. Air Force for this mission, I am confident that it will be a seamless undertaking not only met with and sustained by local and statewide support but implemented and maintained by exceptional personnel in outstanding facilities.” “The Airmen of the 138th Fighter Wing have always answered the call with distinction and professionalism,” said Rep. Jim Bridenstine.“The city of Tulsa and its employers have always supported them. Tulsa is the right place for the F-35.” “Oklahoma has a long history of supporting our military across the state,” said Rep. Markwayne Mullin. “Our unparalleled community support combined with our central location, ongoing facility upgrades, strong aerospace industry, and most importantly, the men and women serving in the 138th Fighter Wing, make Tulsa the ideal home for the F-35A program.” “Oklahoma already has the infrastructure not only to fly and maintain these aircraft, but to train the pilots as well,” said Rep. Steve Russell. “Given the distinguished combat record of our Air Guard, Oklahoma would be a natural choice for the future home of the F-35As.” You can read the full text of the letter here. ### Link to original release Contact: Donelle Harder (202) 224-4721 (Inhofe) DJ Jordan (202)224-5754 (Lankford) Andrew Witmer (202) 225-5565 (Lucas)Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165 (Cole) Liz Payne (202) 225-2211 (Mullin) Sheryl Kaufman (202) 225-2211 (Bridenstine) Daniel Susskind (202) 225-2132 (Russell)
12.18.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies (LHHS), released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Consolidated Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2016. This omnibus legislation fully funds the government through the end of the fiscal year at levels previously agreed to in the Bipartisan Budget Act. The legislation is a compilation of all 12 regular Appropriations bills for discretionary spending and includes several provisions recommended by Cole’s subcommittee. Of note, the LHHS portion of the bill provides substantial increases for research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the Centers for Disease Control (CDC); the $2 billion NIH increase reflects some funding intended for Alzheimer’s disease research and the $300 million CDC increase focuses on disease prevention and bio-defense research. The omnibus provides a $570 million increase for the Head Start education program that benefits low-income children and their families. There is also language included that reins in the excessive overreach of the Department of Labor and the National Labor Relations Board, bans taxpayer bailout of Obamacare’s risk corridor program and strengthens and maintains previous pro-life protections like the Hyde Amendment. In addition to LHHS provisions, the omnibus includes several valuable policy measures. It encourages domestic energy production through repeal of the longstanding ban on crude oil exports, it equips our military with sufficient resources to confront threats at home and abroad and it keeps the promise to America’s veterans of quality and accessible earned benefits. Finally, it includes the recently proposed changes to the Visa Waiver Program, passed by the House, to prevent acts of terrorism by visitors to the United States. “Divided government requires compromise, and this bill reflects that reality,” said Cole. “Neither side got everything it wanted, but the end product reflects as much common ground as possible and allows lawmakers to restore regular order in the legislative process when we return in January.” For more information about the specific provisions included in the omnibus legislation, click here. Specific bill highlights related to Cole’s subcommittee are detailed here. Cole managed the combined rule for consideration of the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act of 2015 and the Consolidated Appropriations Act on the House floor. Video of his opening remarks is available here. Cole also spoke during general debate of the omnibus yesterday. Video is available here. ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
12.17.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act of 2015. The legislation makes permanent for individuals and job creators more than 20 temporary tax provisions. In addition, the bill encourages comprehensive tax reform, boosts economic growth, reduces potential fraud and abuse within tax credit programs and includes measures to keep the IRS accountable. “I am pleased that the House represented the best interests of American taxpayers, families and businesses by permanently extending relief that has already existed in our tax code for years,” said Cole. “This is a responsible, sensible bill that not only gives greater certainty to businesses in their planning and expanding, but American taxpayers are also spared from a burdensome and immediate tax increase. I believe that this important compromise empowers American job creators, benefits the entire workforce and ultimately sets the nation’s economy up to thrive.” ###
12.08.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 158, the Visa Waiver Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act of 2015. The legislation relates to the Visa Waiver Program (VWP), which currently has 38 participating countries and uses background information shared by those countries with the United States for screening individuals seeking entry and short-term travel to America. The bill passed today by a vote of 407-19 and reforms VWP by making participating countries also share counterterrorism and relevant intelligence—including biometric information—about potential visitors to the United States. If deemed necessary, it gives the United States the ability to suspend country participation in VWP and deny VWP status to those who have recently traveled to high-risk countries, like Iraq and Syria. “Without question, the American people deserve the utmost diligence in preventing acts of terrorism by visitors to the United States,” said Cole. “Clearly, there are real adjustments that must be made to the Visa Waiver Program to ensure we adequately screen potentially threatening individuals and discontinue partnerships with countries not gathering or sharing critical intelligence. I am pleased that the House strengthened the requirements for partners and qualifications for participants in the Visa Waiver Program and showed that the safety of our own citizens remains the highest priority.” ###
12.03.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Conference Report for the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act. The legislation provides authorization for five years of funding to maintain and improve the nation’s infrastructure, streamlines surface transportation programs, encourages innovation within the system and ensures the highest level of safety and efficiency for roads, bridges and rails. “The importance of investing in the roads, bridges and rails utilized by all Americans cannot be overstated,” said Cole. “While this transportation bill isn’t perfect and I am particularly concerned about its funding mechanisms that seem unrelated to the transportation system, I still believe that is a worthwhile compromise that reflects the best interests of the American people. At its core, the legislation shows commitment to a safe, efficient and well-maintained infrastructure, and this long-term measure offers greater certainty to projects at the state and local level, helps move people and products and keeps our economy strong and vibrant. “I am glad that two Oklahomans were actively involved in the crafting of this bill. Certainly, this compromise would not be possible without the indispensable leadership of Senator Jim Inhofe, both as chairman of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works and vice-chair of the Conference Committee that negotiated the legislation. In the House, I am pleased that Congressman Markwayne Mullin could also weigh in as a conferee and help mold the legislation,” concluded Cole. ###
12.03.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies, released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Every Student Succeeds Act or ESEA Conference Report. The bill addresses and repeals the shortfalls of No Child Left Behind, which was signed into law in 2002 and greatly increased the federal government’s role in K-12 education across the country. The legislation passed this week seeks to scale back the federal government’s role in K-12 education by limiting the authority of the Secretary of Education, eliminating the federal accountability system and other unsuccessful programs, reducing unnecessary testing and prohibiting a federal mandate requiring states to follow Common Core. Instead, the bill allows states and local education leaders to develop criteria and maintain responsibility for measuring the success of students and schools, addressing failures and filling learning gaps. The legislation makes information available to parents about school performance and charter and magnet school programs, so they can have a more active role in selecting the best education for their children. It also protects private and home schools from needless federal intervention. “I am very proud of this bipartisan, bicameral legislation that fixes glaring nationwide problems in our education system that have prevented many students from making the grade,” said Cole. “Without question, education is one of the most important building blocks for success, and access to quality learning directly impacts development and potential. “While well-intentioned at the time of its passage, No Child Left Behind has clearly led to a decline in learning and academic readiness. I am encouraged by the action taken to correct flaws that have led to gaps in student achievement. By limiting the federal government’s excessive role in education, returning greater control to states, keeping local educational leaders involved in the system and helping parents choose the best place for their children to learn, I believe we can ensure every student in America is set up to succeed. “Certainly, this bill is a major achievement eight years coming and eight years overdue. And I am particularly pleased that it was shepherded by the strong, relentless leadership of my close friend, Education and Workforce Chairman John Kline,” concluded Cole. ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
11.19.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after he supported H.R. 4038, the American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act of 2015, which passed the House by a vote of 289-137. In response to the increasing influence of ISIL/ISIS and the terrorist group’s suspected exploitation of refugees fleeing the escalating conflict in the Middle East, this legislation halts admission of Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the United States until the vetting process is strengthened. The bill recommends improvements to background checks and requires that the FBI Director, Secretary of Homeland Security and Director of National Intelligence independently verify that any individual resettled in the United States does not threaten the safety of American citizens. “Our first obligation and duty is to keep American citizens safe and prevent terrorists from wreaking havoc in the United States,” said Cole. “Given the recent attacks in Paris and considering that one of the attackers posed as a refugee from Syria when he entered Europe, it is clear that ISIL will use the refugee tragedy and any other means necessary to smuggle terrorists into other countries in order to commit crimes against humanity. Without question, we must be certain that isn’t allowed to happen in the United States when accepting refugees. While I don’t doubt that many refugees are genuinely fleeing the Middle East for safe haven from ISIL’s violence, our security officials also have an obligation to verify that any individuals resettled on American soil pose no risk to the safety of our own citizens. Until the system is adequately improved and strengthened, it is safer for all concerned to delay refugees from entering the country.” ###
11.18.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after he was one of 110 House members who sent a letter today urging President Barack Obama to halt admission of refugees from Syria and Iraq to the United States until the vetting and monitoring process is improved and strengthened in order to keep Americans safe from potential terrorist threats. This letter comes in response to the series of terrorist attacks waged by ISIL/ISIS in Paris over the weekend and after media reports that one of the terrorist attackers posed as a refugee from Syria when he entered Europe. In the midst of these developments, President Obama plans to admit thousands of Syrian refugees into the United States. “While I don’t doubt that many refugees are genuinely fleeing the volatile situation in the Middle East and seeking safe haven for their families, I remain leery of accepting them into the United States under the current screening and surveillance system,” said Cole. “Unfortunately, in wake of the Paris attacks, it is clear that ISIL seeks to spread its influence through heinous and senseless acts of terror far beyond the area it occupies. In that evil effort, it is increasingly obvious that these terrorists will use whatever means necessary to do so—even posing as refugees to terrorize the rest of the world. “First and foremost, we must protect the lives of Americans by adequately anticipating, preventing and answering threats to our national security. Given recent events and reports of ISIL’s rapidly spreading presence, it is unacceptable for President Obama to risk the safety of our nation’s citizens by accepting refugees under the current system. Not only must we improve and strengthen the process, but it is imperative that the United States have strong resolve in containing and ultimately defeating the enemies at the source of the conflict. That calls for a clear strategy from the Administration,” concluded Cole. Full version of the letter to President Obama is available here. Excerpts from the letter are included below: “We cannot ignore that, despite your claims, the recent attacks in Paris and the suspected bombing of a Russian airliner, demonstrate that the threat of ISIS is not contained to Syria and Iraq.” “The United States has a proud tradition of opening its arms to those in need. However, the current conflict raging in the Middle East is unique and we cannot be certain that all individuals seeking refuge from the conflicts in Syria and Iraq pose no threat to Americans.” “We urge your immediate action to suspend those admissions until effective vetting and monitoring processes are established that ensures the safety of the American people.” ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
11.17.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), a member of the Chickasaw Nation of Oklahoma, released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 511, the Tribal Labor Sovereignty Act of 2015. This legislation reaffirms the exemption of tribal governments from the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA), upholds tribal sovereignty and protects self-governance on tribal lands. When Congress passed NLRA in 1935, it excluded all federal, state and local governments from regulation—an exemption that was also extended to tribal governments. In 2004, however, the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) ruled that tribal governments were no longer subject to the same exemption and commercial activity could be regulated. “Like federal, state and local governments, tribal governments should not be subject to the National Labor Relations Act,” said Cole. “In keeping with 69 years of past precedent, I am pleased that the House supported legislation to right the misguided policy that has threatened tribal sovereignty. The Tribal Labor Sovereignty Act not only restores authority previously afforded to tribes, but it symbolizes a United States that respects the ability and right of tribes to govern effectively on their own lands.” Cole managed the combined rule for H.R. 511 and H.R. 1737 on the House floor. Video of his opening remarks is available here. Excerpt from his opening remarks is below: “Practically every county and city in this country has a golf course. Most states have a lottery. The National Park Service operates hotels. Many cities operate convention centers. All of these activities are not regulated under the NLRA. It should be the same with tribes.” ###
11.14.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement in response to a series of tragic terrorist attacks across Paris. “I am deeply grieved by the senseless acts of terror against the French people. Americans are unfortunately all too familiar with the unbelievable shock, horror and permanent scars caused by terrorism. During this dark time for our French allies, our most sincere thoughts, prayers and support remains with them today, tomorrow and in the difficult days ahead.” ###
11.06.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after President Barack Obama announced rejection of TransCanada’s request to build the Keystone XL pipeline. TransCanada first submitted its construction request to the U.S. State Department on September 19, 2008. “After more than seven years of needless delays, excessive environmental studies and outright refusal to make a decision either way on TransCanada’s request to build the northern route of the Keystone pipeline, I am disappointed but not surprised by the president’s decision to reject it,” said Cole. “As I’ve said before, opposing Keystone is economically, diplomatically and environmentally irresponsible. Studies have shown that pipeline transport is cheaper, more efficient and more environmentally sound than any other means of moving oil. “Given the facts, I had hoped that the president would change his mind over time and ultimately side with the vast majority of the American people who support this common sense project and worthwhile investment. Unfortunately, the president’s final decision confirms that he’s more interested in catering to radical environmental extremists than with creating jobs and encouraging energy independence,” concluded Cole. ###
11.06.2015	Washington, D.C. – A broad, bipartisan coalition of 35 House lawmakers called on Speaker Ryan today to schedule and debate an Authorization for the Use of Military Force (AUMF) as quickly as possible following the recent announcement by President Obama of a deepening entanglement in Syria and Iraq. The letter to Speaker Ryan is led by Representatives Jim McGovern (D-MA), Tom Cole, (R-OK), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Walter Jones (R-NC), Peter Welch (D-VT), and John Lewis (D-GA). “Last week, the president announced [that] the U.S. will deploy a U.S. Special Operations contingent into northern Syria to be embedded with and to advise opposition militant forces in that region; and U.S. military advisors and special operations forces already in Iraq will be embedded with Kurdish and Iraqi forces on the front lines of combat,” the lawmakers wrote, calling the move part of “a significant escalation in U.S. military operations in the region” that places “U.S. military personnel on the front lines of combat operations.” “We do not share the same policy prescriptions for U.S. military engagement in the region, but we do share the belief that it is past time for the Congress to fulfill its obligations under the Constitution and vote on an AUMF that clearly delineates the authority and limits, if any, on U.S. military engagement in Iraq, Syria and the surrounding region,” the lawmakers added. “Congress can no longer ask our brave service men and women to continue to serve in harm’s way while we fail in carrying out our constitutional responsibility in the area of war and peace,” the lawmakers concluded. “As long as the House fails to assert its constitutional prerogatives and authority, the Administration may continue to expand the mission and level of engagement of U.S. Armed Forces throughout the region. We strongly urge you, Mr. Speaker, to bring an AUMF to the floor of the House as quickly as possible.” Other Members signing the letter are Reps. Justin Amash (R-MI), Michael Burgess (R-TX), David Cicilline (D-RI), John Conyers (D-MI), Joe Crowley (D-NY), John Abney Culberson (R-TX), Peter A. DeFazio (D-OR), John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN), John Garamendi (D-CA), Paul A. Gosar (R-AZ), Janice Hahn (D-CA), Richard L. Hanna (R-NY), Joe Kennedy (D-MA), Daniel Kildee (D-MI), Raúl R. Labrador (R-ID), Thomas Massie (R-KY), Mick Mulvaney (R-SC), Beto O’Rourke (D-TX), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Bill Posey (R-FL), Charles Rangel (D-NY), Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA), Matt Salmon (R-AZ), Mark Sanford (R-SC), Janice D. Schakowsky (D-IL), Louise Slaughter (D-NY), Ed Whitfield (R-KY), Ted S. Yoho (R-FL), and Ryan K. Zinke (R-MT). The full letter, sent today, can be found here. ###
11.05.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation to reauthorize funding that maintains and improves the nation’s infrastructure, streamlines surface transportation programs, encourages innovation within the system and ensures the highest level of safety and efficiency. The legislation authorizes funding for six years. “Money for the roads, bridges and rails of America is a wise and prudent investment and one I was pleased to support,” said Cole. “A safe, efficient and well-maintained infrastructure is not only critical to moving people and products, but it also helps keep our economy strong and vibrant.” ###
10.29.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) congratulated Paul Ryan today after he was elected to serve as the Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives. “I am absolutely thrilled that Paul Ryan was elected to serve as Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives,” said Cole. “Paul’s decision to serve comes at considerable sacrifice, and the fact that he is willing to step up and assume this challenging position at such a difficult time speaks to his personal and political character. In the days and months ahead, I will do everything I can to support him as he offers a fresh vision for a better America and carries out his new duties as Speaker. I couldn’t be more proud to vote for him today. “Paul Ryan may not be Oklahoma’s favorite son, but he’s certainly Oklahoma’s favorite son-in-law. I am particularly pleased that a guy with hunting dogs named ‘Boomer’ and ‘Sooner’ is now Speaker of the House,” concluded Cole. ###
10.28.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1314, the Bipartisan Budget Agreement of 2015. The legislation provides topline spending allocations for fiscal years 2016 and 2017, invests in the nation’s military, reforms some entitlement spending and raises the debt ceiling until March 2017. The agreed upon increase to discretionary spending and debt ceiling increase is fully offset by reforms to entitlement programs. “Certainly, this is not a perfect bill for members on either side of the aisle,” said Cole. “But it is an acceptable bargain that safeguards the country from default, makes incremental reforms to the drivers of our debt, invests in our military and prevents a government shutdown. “Considering that we still live in an era of divided government, neither side can ever get all that it wants in a negotiation. Given that political reality and the responsibility we have to govern, I believe this agreement is far better than the alternative of doing nothing at all. In particular, I am pleased that the budget arrangement strengthens our military. With mounting threats abroad, America must maintain a robust military. “Despite its shortcomings, I am encouraged that the compromise budget moves us in the right direction and addresses our nation’s critical funding priorities,” concluded Cole. Earlier today, Cole managed the rule for consideration of the budget agreement. Video of his opening remarks are available here. ###
10.23.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) mourned the loss of Master Sgt. Joshua L. Wheeler, who was killed during a U.S.-Iraqi joint mission to free 70 hostages held captive by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL/ISIS) in Iraq. Wheeler was from Roland, Oklahoma. “There is no greater sacrifice than risking one’s life in combat to further the cause of freedom, and Master Sgt. Wheeler paid the ultimate price to free those held captive by an evil enemy. For that, we owe him an eternal debt of gratitude. While we can find comfort in knowing that his sacrifice ensured freedom for many, his loss is devastating to our state, our nation and to his loved ones. My sincerest thoughts and prayers remain with his family and friends as they grieve for who he was, what he achieved and what he had yet to accomplish. He will be missed and remembered for his heroism and bravery to bring freedom.” ###
10.23.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) reacted to Ways and Means Chairman Paul Ryan’s announcement that he will run for Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives. “I am delighted that Paul Ryan has formally announced his run for Speaker of the House,” said Cole. “There is quite simply no one better prepared or better positioned to lead our party and the Republican Conference during this time than Paul. I am confident that he will win an overwhelming majority in Conference-wide elections next Wednesday followed by another impressive showing when the entire House votes the next day. “There is no doubt that Paul’s decision to serve comes at considerable sacrifice—both personally and politically. However, the fact that he is willing to step up and assume this challenging position at such a difficult time speaks to his personal and political character. In the days and months ahead, I will do everything I can to support him as he carries out his duties as Speaker. “Furthermore, anyone smart enough to marry an Oklahoman and name his hunting dogs ‘Boomer’ and ‘Sooner’ has my complete and unqualified support,” concluded Cole. ###
10.22.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), a member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, released the following statement after President Barack Obama vetoed the bipartisan Conference Report for the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) sent to his desk by both chambers of Congress. The legislation vetoed today was intended to authorize critical funding for our nation’s military personnel, readiness and operations, and it reflected the president’s total budget request for defense spending. “President Obama should be absolutely ashamed of his decision to veto NDAA and use our military as a bargaining tool to increase domestic spending,” said Cole. “The president’s veto is unfair to our service members who risk their lives on a daily basis to protect the entire United States, our military families who stand beside those heroes and our military retirees and veterans who unquestionably deserve the benefits they earned. Due to his dislike of the process by which Congress fulfilled his budget request and due to language that prevents immediate closure of Guantanamo Bay and limits transfer of terror suspects out of the prison, the president has opted to put his personal agenda ahead of the best interest of our military. Considering that the language related to Guantanamo is the same as the president has signed into law every year of his presidency, including versions submitted when Democrats controlled Congress, it is baffling that he’s choosing to oppose it now. In a world with building turmoil and mounting threats to our national security, I am disappointed that the president has placed his domestic agenda ahead of the best interests of the American military and security interests of the United States.” In his weekly column, Cole recently expanded on the importance of NDAA in providing for a strong defense. Read the column here. ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
10.08.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), a member of the Chickasaw Nation of Oklahoma, released the following statement after he supported H.R. 538, the Native American Energy Act. The legislation lessens the federal regulatory burden imposed on the Native American tribes or individual tribal landowners when they seek to develop the natural resources on land that is held in federal trust. “I am pleased that the Native American Energy Act aims to set tribal communities up for greater success by making it easier for them to initiate development of the natural resources present on their lands,” said Cole. “Passage of this legislation not only reins in needless federal barriers hurting tribes from realizing the economic benefits of energy development, but it directly benefits the surrounding communities and entire United States in the process.” ###
10.06.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), a member of the Chickasaw Nation of Oklahoma, praised an announcement made today by the Department of Interior along with the Chickasaw and Choctaw Nations. Under the $186 million total settlement to resolve trust claims, the Chickasaw Nation will receive $46.5 million and the Choctaw Nation will receive $139.5 million. “Without question, this is a significant announcement for Indian Country and one for which Chickasaw Nation Governor Bill Anoatubby, Choctaw Nation Principal Chief Gary Batton and former Principal Chief Gregory Pyle should be proud,” said Cole. “Not only does the historic trust settlement further repair what has long been a broken relationship between all of Indian Country and the federal government, but it serves as a beacon of hope for other tribes across the nation that have suffered similar neglect at the hands of the federal government. It is certainly a day for celebration and one that would not be possible without the steadfast commitment of Interior Secretary Sally Jewell, who has tirelessly worked with tribal nations and their leaders to acknowledge and fulfill the broken promises of the past.” For more details about the terms of the settlement, click here. ###
10.01.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), a member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, released the following statement after he supported the Conference Report for H.R. 1735, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year 2016, on the House floor. The legislation authorizes funding for our nation’s military personnel, readiness and operations. It includes $515 billion in base spending for national defense and $89.2 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO), reflecting the president’s total budget request of $604.2 billion. The legislation passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 270-156. Unlike the House version passed in May, the NDAA Conference Report includes a 1.3 percent raise for service members, rather than the House-recommended version of 2.3 percent. The report also left out the lump-sum payment option at retirement, reflected cuts to housing allowances and increased fees for TRICARE prescriptions. However, the report does repeal a 1 percent penalty for military retirees on cost-of-living-adjustment (COLA) benefits. As recommended by the Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission, the legislation includes modernization of benefits and retirement options available to military and their families. Other positive provisions include support for commissary funding, retention of dual housing allowance for military couples and authorization of Survivor Benefit Plan coverage for a spouse in the event a former spouse predeceases the military member. “I support the legislation jointly produced by House and Senate conferees that equips our military service members and supports our veterans, military retirees and their families,” said Cole. “While I am disappointed that several valuable provisions aimed at helping military retirees and families were not carried over from the original House version, I believe that passage of this compromise agreement is still the most responsible thing to do. In a dangerous world, it is critical that we have the capability to face direct threats to our nation’s security and those to our friends and allies. However, we cannot strike our enemies without a military that is properly equipped to confront those mounting dangers in our midst. This legislation reflects bipartisan agreement to prioritizing and arming our troops, and I am deeply disappointed that the president has threatened to veto the bill. Certainly, those who volunteered to risk their lives on behalf of all Americans should never be at the center of partisan dispute.” Cole also made remarks during Rules Committee consideration of the NDAA Conference Report yesterday, commenting on the president’s threat to veto the legislation. Video during the hearing is available here. ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
09.30.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), a member of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed a short-term continuing resolution that funds the government through December 11 and prevents a government shutdown. “While it is a relief that lawmakers have acted responsibly and passed legislation that keeps the government open, I am disappointed that we again had to use a short-term funding bill to do so,” said Cole. “The House has been hard at work this year in writing, considering and passing appropriations bills to fund every area of the government. In fact, for the first time since 2009, the House has not only passed all 12 appropriations bills out of committee but six of those bills successfully passed on the House floor. “One of the preeminent responsibilities we are tasked with as members of Congress is to ensure that government continues to function. While another short-term funding bill is not perfect, the alternative of a government shutdown is far worse. In the days, weeks and months ahead, I hope that lawmakers in both chambers and the president will waste no more time and instead work together to negotiate a broader budget agreement. Cole also responded to claims that the continuing resolution provides taxpayer dollars to Planned Parenthood. “Despite claims to the contrary, there is no federal funding for Planned Parenthood included in this bill. Since the majority of Planned Parenthood’s federal funding comes from Medicaid reimbursements, or entitlement spending, it is not subject to the annual appropriations process. The remaining amount of federal money previously given to Planned Parenthood primarily comes from the Title X program in the form of family-planning grants. All grants for this year have been distributed and no others can be awarded until April of next year, which is long past the length of the funding measure passed today. While I share the same disgust of the evidence seen in the atrocious videos, I want to assure my constituents that no additional funds are being provided in this bill for Planned Parenthood,” concluded Cole. As chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies, Cole led the subcommittee in writing, considering and passing legislation that defunded the Title X Family Planning grant program—the direct source of federal funding in the subcommittee’s jurisdiction. It passed the Appropriations Committee in June. To watch Cole’s remarks made on the House floor today in support of keeping the government open, click here. ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
09.25.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after Speaker John Boehner announced that he will step down from Republican leadership and retire from the U.S. House of Representatives at the end of October. “It has been a great personal privilege to serve with Speaker John Boehner,” said Cole. “I’ve had the honor of knowing the Speaker since he was a young freshman Congressman, and I’ve watched his career with admiration and appreciation throughout his time of service. After the 2008 election, most assumed that Republicans would remain in the minority for decades to come. It was because of John Boehner’s determination and leadership that Republicans recaptured the majority in 2010 and retained it in 2012 even as President Obama was re-elected. “For the first four years of his speakership, he was both the tip of the spear and goalie in dealing with the Obama Administration. Despite having to confront a Democratic president and Senate during most of his tenure, he achieved several truly historic conservative victories. Among those for which all Americans should thank him are the rapid decline of the deficit, making almost all of the Bush tax cuts permanent and securing meaningful entitlement reforms that strengthened Medicare and Medicaid. One wonders what he might have done if given the opportunity to work with a Republican president and Senate throughout his entire tenure. “In what is often a thankless job, made even more difficult in divided government, the Speaker has served with dignity and effectiveness. I regard John Boehner as a great Speaker, a dedicated public servant, a man of great personal integrity and a cherished friend. He leaves a truly remarkable legacy. I wish him, his family and his loyal staff all the best.” ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
09.24.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after Pope Francis addressed the United States Congress during a joint meeting. This is the first papal visit to Congress ever to occur in history. “I consider it a great privilege to witness and be part of such an historic event that is the first of its kind,” said Cole. “Since ascending to the papacy, Pope Francis has rightly earned admiration and respect far beyond the Roman Catholic Church. His humble advocacy for the poor and underprivileged peoples of the world is an inspiration and a reminder of Christ's admonition that 'Whatever you did for one of the least of these brothers and sisters of mine, you did for me.' Regardless of one's religious affiliation, Pope Francis' visit to America is an historic event that will be remembered and celebrated for decades." ###
09.23.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) responded to Hillary Clinton’s public opposition to construction of the Keystone XL pipeline. “Hillary Clinton’s opposition to Keystone XL is obviously not founded on the facts surrounding the construction project but rather on pandering to radical environmental interest groups,” said Cole. “By announcing her opposition to the pipeline’s construction, she has also foolishly declared her opposition to the thousands of American jobs it would create. Furthermore, her position requires the United States to become even more dependent on foreign oil in the name of combating climate change, despite numerous studies that have revealed no significant environmental impact from the pipeline. Not only is Clinton’s position economically unsound and environmentally counterproductive, but it is diplomatically insulting to Canada—one of our strongest friends and allies. Certainly, this is not the sort of leadership America deserves.” ###
09.18.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the followed statement after he supported pro-life legislation on the House floor this week. In response to recent video evidence showing Planned Parenthood’s negotiation and sale of aborted baby remains, the House passed H.R. 3134, the Defund Planned Parenthood Act of 2015, which would discontinue funds for one year for any service offered by Planned Parenthood or its affiliates if it performs abortions. The House also passed H.R. 3504, the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act, which requires attending medical professionals during abortion procedures to provide the same life-saving care to babies if they are born alive. “Like most Americans, I am appalled and disgusted by the recent video evidence brought against Planned Parenthood,” said Cole. “In the wake of the horrendous videos, I am encouraged that the House has taken swift and appropriate action to confront the atrocities at the organization through legislative measures and ongoing committee investigations. Further, the subcommittee that I chair addressed some of Planned Parenthood’s federal funding when we drafted our appropriations bill for Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies. When the bill was passed out of the full committee at the end of June, it reflected cuts to the direct sources of federal funding in the subcommittee’s jurisdiction in the form of Title X Family Planning grants. “Clearly, the House is determined to protect the lives of unborn children and prevent taxpayer dollars from being channeled in the form of federal funding to Planned Parenthood. And without question, lawmakers in both chambers have pursued the steps that are possible given the current political landscape,” concluded Cole. ###
09.11.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) remembered the tragedy of September 11, when planes were hijacked by terrorists and crashed into the World Trade Centers in New York City, the Pentagon in Arlington, Virginia, and in a field near Stonycreek Township, Pennsylvania. “On this day, fourteen years ago, our nation was brutally attacked when innocent American lives were prematurely taken by senseless acts of terror,” said Cole. “We remain united in our grief for those who were lost, and we resolve to remain vigilant in our efforts to prevent future acts of aggression against our people and our homeland.” ###
09.11.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation this week to oppose and request further information on the nuclear deal negotiated by the Obama Administration and P5+1 with Iran. Legislation related to the agreement included H. Res 411, H.R. 3461 and H.R. 3460. These measures held that the president has not submitted the complete agreement to Congress for its consideration and that he does not have the authority to lift sanctions on Iran without congressional approval. There was also a vote on approval of the deal, which was defeated 162-269. “Like most Americans, I am strongly opposed to the nuclear deal with Iran that was negotiated and endorsed by President Obama and sent to Congress for review,” said Cole. “I am encouraged that House Republicans and principled Democrats voted against approval of the deal and to pass other measures requiring the president to provide information regarding every aspect of the deal negotiated with Iran. “If this deal is implemented, it will almost certainly lead to a nuclear-capable Iran in the near future. While the president insists on trusting this dangerous state sponsor of terrorism, he is recklessly jeopardizing the safety and security of America and our allies. “While the House followed appropriate steps in response to the Iranian nuclear deal, I am disappointed that the Senate didn’t allow a vote on it at all. Certainly, an agreement of this magnitude with such dire consequences to our national security deserves a vote in both chambers. I hope that next week Senate Democrats and the White House will allow such a vote to take place. In a matter of this importance, the American people deserve to know where all their elected officials stand,” Cole declared. “Nevertheless, it is clear that the president has chosen to disregard the opinion of a bipartisan majority of the House and the Senate, as well as the overwhelming majority of the American people, and press ahead with the ill-considered and deeply flawed agreement with Iran. The president and his allies in Congress now bear sole responsibility for the adverse consequences that the agreement will have for the United States, for our friends and our allies in the region and for those threatened by Iranian-sponsored terrorism around the world,” concluded Cole. ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
08.24.2015	Norman, OK – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the tragic death of Oklahoma Labor Commissioner Mark Costello. “I am stunned and saddened by the tragic loss of Mark Costello,” said Cole. “Mark’s death leaves a hole in the heart of our community. He was a proud Oklahoman, dedicated public servant, devoted husband and father and a dear friend to countless others. During this difficult time for his family, I pray that the Lord’s comfort will be near to their hearts and that the support and prayers of their friends will be overwhelmingly felt.” ###
08.20.2015	Ada, OK – The Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS), the federal agency that administers AmeriCorps, the Chickasaw Nation, and Congressman Tom Cole today announced a first-ever federal grant to support a new Senior Corps Foster Grandparent Program. The goal of this program is to improve school readiness, ensuring children are on the pathway to academic success. The federal agency announced more than $1 million in new funding to support up to 75 Senior Corps Foster Grandparents serving annually over the next three years. The federal investment is projected to generate an additional $120,000 in local support to increase community impact and return on federal investment. “We are thrilled to announce the first-ever Foster Grandparent Program of its kind for the Chickasaw Nation,” said Wendy Spencer, CEO of the Corporation for National and Community Service. “For generations, seniors have been making a powerful impact in their communities, and their service is more important now than ever. We congratulate the Chickasaw Nation for their strong application and thank Governor Anoatubby for his dedication to ensuring our young people are prepared for future success in the classroom and throughout their lives.” "Without a doubt, one of the greatest investments we can make is in our young people, and ensuring they receive a quality education is a foundational part of that investment,” said Congressman Tom Cole. “Through the Foster Grandparent Program, I am very pleased that my own tribe is leading an effort to further involve older generations in preparing children to succeed and achieve in school. By providing a way for senior volunteers to come alongside children from disadvantaged circumstances, I am confident that the program will have lasting impact upon the students, their families and the entire community it serves." Foster Grandparents will serve with the Chickasaw Nation Child Development Center and Head Start in Ada, Oklahoma. Some of their activities will include providing one-on-one attention to children, Chickasaw language and culture discussion, literacy development, and math and science tutoring. Foster Grandparents will also act as mentors offering emotional support and guidance to children, parents and staff. “While Foster Grandparents have had a positive impact in our classrooms for decades, this new initiative will extend that impact into our child development centers,” said Gov. Anoatubby. “We believe this new program offers a unique opportunity for our seniors to form a unique and mutually beneficial bond with the children they serve. Foster grandparents have the opportunity to become role models, mentors and often lifelong friends with these children.” The Foster Grandparent Program is an intergenerational program that provides a way for volunteers age 55 and over to stay active and provide one-on-one mentoring, nurturing, and support to children with special or exceptional needs, or who are at an academic, social or financial disadvantage. The Corporation for National and Community Service is a federal agency that engages more than five million Americans in service through its AmeriCorps, Senior Corps, Social Innovation Fund, and Volunteer Generation Fund programs, and leads the President's national call to service initiative, United We Serve. For more information, visit NationalService.gov. ### Link to original CNCS release Contact: Tony Choate (580) 559-0921 (Chickasaw Nation) Press Office (202) 606-6775 (CNCS)Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165 (Cole)
07.23.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) and Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04), co-chairs of the Native American Congressional Caucus, this week introduced H.R. 3137, to reaffirm the trust status of tribal trust lands. The legislation ensures that existing tribal lands will continue to be held in trust by the federal government and removes the uncertainty and ambiguities inherent within the Carcieri v. Salazar opinion. “I am pleased to introduce legislation that seeks to further repair what has historically been a battered relationship between Native Americans and the federal government,” said Cole. “By reaffirming the trust status of lands acquired by tribes, this bill keeps the promises previously made and rightly provides peace of mind related to the ownership of tribal lands.” “The placement of land into trust for tribal nations is a binding commitment,” said McCollum. “This bipartisan bill makes clear that our government honors the commitments it has made, and that lands that have been restored and held for tribes under existing trust status are protected for future generations.” Background: On June 18, 1934, Congress passed the Indian Reorganization Act (IRA) to protect tribal sovereignty and to help restore lands to tribes. For 75 years, all federally recognized tribes had the right under IRA to request that land be placed into trust for their nations by the Secretary of the Interior Department. Accordingly, tribes have used their trust lands to build community facilities like schools, health clinics and tribal housing to serve their tribal members. In 2009, however, the U.S. Supreme Court overturned that long-established precedent in Carcieri v. Salazar. In addition to generating expensive litigation, the Carcieri decision caused uncertainty and unequal treatment among federally recognized tribes, operating on existing tribal trust lands. Bill text is available here. ### Contact:Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165Sam McCullough (202) 225-6631 (McCollum)
07.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement online in response to a group of protesters yesterday in Oklahoma waving Confederate flags during President Obama’s visit to the state. “I was shocked and disappointed by those who showed up to wave Confederate flags soon after President Obama arrived in Oklahoma,” said Cole. “Their actions were not only disappointing but incredibly disrespectful, insensitive and embarrassing to the entire state. The unacceptable behavior displayed by these individuals certainly does not reflect the values and views of the vast majority of Oklahomans. No president should ever be confronted by such behavior, especially when the purpose of the visit was meant to celebrate and recognize some of our state’s greatest achievements. “The office of President of the United States is deserving of the respect of all Americans, regardless of how deeply we may disagree on issues or policies. Political differences are never a justification to insult the president, and I believe that such action shows disrespect for the office itself. In this circumstance, I consider it to be particularly insensitive given the president’s personal graciousness when Oklahomans in Moore were devastated by tornadoes in May 2013. “Like me, I’m certain that the vast majority of people across our state are embarrassed and disappointed to see other Oklahomans engage in this sort of activity. Given the president’s purpose for visiting, all Oklahomans should have been proud to have him in the state and shown him the same hospitality that we routinely extend to those who visit our state.” ###
07.14.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives yesterday passed H.R. 208, the Superstorm Sandy Relief and Disaster Loan Program Improvement Act of 2015. The legislation included as a provision the same language as Cole’s previously introduced Tornado Family Safety Act. Currently, the Small Business Administration (SBA) provides homeowners, renters and personal-property owners with low-interest loans to help recover from a disaster. Cole’s provision clarifies that SBA disaster loans can be used by homeowners for construction of safe room shelters within rebuilt homes. “Whether it’s a hurricane in the northeast, wildfire on the west coast or a devastating tornado in my home state of Oklahoma, at some point every area of the country is susceptible to a natural disaster,” said Cole. “Not only is emergency preparedness critical for saving lives in the midst of disaster, but recovery and rebuilding efforts must be swift after disaster occurs. In Oklahoma, we are faced yearly with the risk and unpredictability of tornadoes that are capable of leaving neighborhoods unrecognizable and forcing communities to rebuild from nothing. For those who have suffered unbelievable losses from severe weather, particularly in Oklahoma, I believe that construction of safe room shelters can provide much-needed peace of mind when rebuilding. I am pleased that the legislation passed today ensures victims can use disaster loans for safe room construction.” ###
07.14.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the Obama Administration announced that the P5+1 has reached an agreement with Iran regarding its nuclear program. “While I haven’t reviewed the agreement in full yet, I remain skeptical about trusting the intentions of Iran and believing it will abide by its word,” said Cole. “Iran is a disingenuous and dangerous negotiating partner, especially on matters that closely impact the safety and security of our nation and allies. I am deeply concerned that President Obama gave up too much to Iran—a known sponsor of terror—in order to reach an agreement that he believes will be historic but may prove tragic for America and its closest friends in the Middle East. “The only way to prevent Iran from building a nuclear weapon is through significant degradation of its nuclear capability. That should include fewer centrifuges, greater transparency and Iran’s surrender of weapons-grade uranium accumulated in recent years. I believe that sanctions should only be removed gradually and only if Iran fulfills its commitments. The United States and our allies should be able to maintain a complete overview of the regime’s nuclear activities through unlimited and unannounced inspections of Iran’s facilities to catch anything done illegally and in secret. Finally, the decision to lift the embargo on selling conventional armaments and ballistic missile components to Iran has no place in this agreement. I am deeply concerned that the Administration made this concession not only to Iran, but to Russia and China as well.‎ “Over the next 60 days, Congress and the American people will have an opportunity to thoroughly review this agreement with Iran. Before arriving at a final opinion, I intend to take my time carefully reading the agreement and listening to the Administration, my colleagues in Congress, various foreign policy experts and, most importantly, my constituents. While the president deserves the opportunity to make his case, he is surely aware that many of us begin this process with serious reservations and questions about the agreement and some of those nations who are parties to it,” concluded Cole. ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
07.13.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) announced upcoming additions to his district office. William McPherson and Thomas Lewis II will join as field representatives. Katie Ringer has been hired as district scheduler; Elizabeth Norrie, who previously held the position, will relocate and transition to the D.C. office in August to serve as staff assistant. “I am very pleased to welcome Will, Thomas and Katie to my district team,” said Cole. “They bring a variety of experiences and education to the team, and I am confident that our staff and constituents will benefit from their valuable perspectives. I look forward to serving the Fourth District alongside these capable and hardworking individuals.” William McPherson comes from the Office of Governor Mary Fallin, where he served as Policy Advisor and Legislative Liaison. He grew up in Las Vegas, NV and studied at the University of Oklahoma, where he received a Master of Public Administration. As field representative for the northern part of the district, he will be based out of the Norman office. Thomas Lewis II joins the office after serving as Comptroller at Wilson Research Strategies. Prior to that, he was Administrative Officer at the Oklahoma Workers’ Compensation Commission. He grew up in Oklahoma City and studied at the University of Central Oklahoma, where he received a Bachelor of Science in Accounting. As field representative for the southwest portion of the district, he will be based out of the Lawton office. Katie Carlisle Ringer relocated to Norman in 2013 after more than five years serving in a variety of roles at the U.S. Senate Committee on Appropriations in Washington, D.C. She grew up in Jackson, MS and studied at the University of Mississippi, where she received a Bachelor of Arts in Art History. ###
07.09.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the United States Army announced reductions in active duty personnel. This change comes in response to President Obama’s military budget requirement that the Army force be reduced from 490,000 to 450,000 by fiscal year 2018. Under this timeline, several military installations across the country were notified of cuts to meet the reduced number. However, today’s announcement revealed that Fort Sill is authorized for a military personnel increase of 219 by October 2017. As part of the Army-wide reduction and before today’s announcement, the Army analyzed the impact of additional personnel cuts. Last summer, a Supplemental Programmatic Environmental Assessment (SPEA) was issued for Fort Sill in the Fourth District of Oklahoma, along with 30 other Army installations across the country. Preparation of the SPEA for Fort Sill included public comments gathered during a meeting on December 8, 2014 in the community. Ahead of that meeting, the office of Congressman Tom Cole was involved in working with the community to prepare and present a report to the Army, highlighting the socioeconomic impacts that a proposed downsizing of 6,842 personnel would have on the Lawton-Fort Sill community. “While I am relieved that the Army’s restructuring reductions did not impact Fort Sill’s personnel, I remain very concerned about the president’s military policy and continued determination to further cut those who volunteered to defend our nation,” said Cole. “Clearly, the president’s strategy is not based on reality but rather the ill-founded assumption that the world is safe enough, revealing just how limited his understanding is of military deterrence and use of strategic force. “Unfortunately, because the president is unwilling to address real changes to mandatory government spending, he is leaving fewer critical dollars to fund our military and slowly degrading our national defense in the process. But I believe that no amount of technology or restructuring can ever compensate for a strong national defense and the people who volunteer to serve in our armed forces. “We live in an increasingly dangerous world. Deep cuts to our military shows incredible disrespect for the selfless sacrifice of those who volunteered to wear the uniform. In the days ahead, I will continue to work to support our service members in Oklahoma and across this great nation, ensuring they have the resources they need to successfully defend the America we love.” ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
07.08.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after he voted in favor of H.R. 5, the Student Success Act. This legislation reforms the federal government’s excessive role in K-12 education, allowing states to have more control of their schools and encouraging greater involvement of parents and education leaders to ensure quality education for students. “Undoubtedly, Americans in all 50 states understand that education is one of the most important building blocks for an individual’s success,” said Cole. “Especially in the earliest years of a person’s life, access to quality learning or lack thereof directly impacts development and potential. By limiting the federal government’s excessive role in education, returning greater control to states and keeping parents and educational leaders involved in the system, I believe we can set more students up for success.” ###
07.07.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after President Obama announced intent to nominate former Congressman Brad Carson to the post of Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness. “Without question, Brad Carson is a remarkably qualified candidate for a very difficult role at the Department of Defense,” said Cole. “His educational background, career accomplishments and distinguished military service prove that he is ready and capable to lead and advise on decisions facing our troops. I am confident that he will remain diligent and vigilant, ensuring that our service men and women have the resources they need to continue defending our nation.” ###
07.07.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) announced upcoming staff changes in his district office. Effective July 31, District Director Joshua Grogis will depart the Oklahoma staff and join Fleske Holding Company, LLC in Norman as Director of Marketing and Leasing. A long-time member of the staff, Grogis first began serving in 2007 as Assistant to the Chairman while Cole was Chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee. Following the chairmanship, Grogis joined Cole’s legislative staff on Capitol Hill and then moved to Oklahoma in 2010, where he served as Field Representative and later as Campaign Manager. Since 2012, he has served with distinction as District Director. “Josh Grogis has served with me for a long time, and I count him as not only a devoted staff member but a trusted friend,” said Congressman Cole. “Throughout all these years, I’ve had the great honor and privilege of watching him grow both personally and professionally. He’s fearless in the midst of any challenge, has incredible energy and leads my Oklahoma staff with great skill. I’m grateful for his tireless, exceptional work that has benefitted the people of the Fourth District. While his send-off is bittersweet, I could not be prouder of all that Josh has achieved and all that he will accomplish in the future.” "Working for Congressman Tom Cole and the constituents he serves has been an incredible experience,” said Grogis. “I will forever be grateful to him, our staff and friends for their trust and support. Most importantly, because of Tom, I am thankful to now call Oklahoma my home, Jessica my wife and so many others my friends." Cole also announced the promotion of Jeff Peters to District Director. Since 2012, Peters has served as Field Representative for Cleveland and Oklahoma counties in the Fourth District; he also managed Cole’s most recent re-election campaign. Before joining the staff, Peters was active in other campaigns and party politics in the state, including Political Director of the Oklahoma Republican Party. “I am very pleased to announce that Jeff Peters will assume the role of District Director this August,” said Congressman Cole. “A lifelong resident of Moore, Jeff knows the people, places and needs of the Fourth District well. Since joining my staff, he’s brought a thoughtful perspective and amazing work ethic that has inspired the entire team. As he takes on a new set of responsibilities in the days ahead, I am confident that he will continue to make a noticeable impact.” "It has been an honor to work for Congressman Cole and serve in the area where I grew up and still call home,” said Peters. “I appreciate the opportunity I have been given and look forward to continuing in my new role." ###
06.26.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement in response to the Supreme Court’s ruling on King v. Burwell on Thursday. “While I respect the role of the judicial branch, I am disappointed by the Supreme Court’s ruling that further empowers President Obama to rewrite his own law as he pleases,” said Cole. “Despite the ruling, I remain committed to working with my colleagues to find real solutions and real alternatives for our nation’s healthcare system in order to provide better access and care for Americans.” ###
06.25.2015	Washington D.C. – Congressman Tim Murphy (R-PA) and Congressman Tom Cole (R-OK) today weighed in on the House Appropriations Committee passage of funding of the Fiscal 2016 Labor, Health & Human Services, Education spending bill, which contained funding for a centerpiece component of Murphy’s landmark mental health legislation, the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act. Congressman Murphy’s Assisted Outpatient Treatment Grant Program for Individuals With Serious Mental Illness, authorized in Section 224 of the Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014, was authorized by Congress and signed into law by the President last year, but the program had not been yet fully-funded. With the passage of the appropriations bill, the funds will be available under the grant program for state and counties to operate Assistant Outpatient Treatment (AOT) programs, a successful alternative to long-term inpatient care for those with serious mental illness cycling through the system but never receiving needed care. Yesterday’s passage in Committee marks the first time the federal government has ever moved legislation to fund AOT. “When it goes untreated or unnoticed, mental illness can have serious and heartbreaking consequences upon families and entire communities. In severe cases, it even alienates individuals from society through homelessness and incarceration. Instead of resorting to and relying on long-term inpatient care for mental health patients, I was pleased to include funding for an alternative mental health initiative brought by my colleague Congressman Tim Murphy that directs operation of Assisted Outpatient Treatment programs,” said LHHS Appropriations Chairman Tom Cole. “I believe the presence of these programs across the country will allow communities and families to better address and support those suffering with mental illness.” Established in 45 states and dozens of counties across the country as an alternative to long-term inpatient care, court-ordered AOT allows the court to direct treatment in the community for the hardest-to-treat patients — the fewer than one percent of people with serious mental illness — who have a history of arrest, repeat hospitalizations, and violence because of their illness. AOT has reduced rates of imprisonment, homelessness, and costly hospitalizations for chronically mentally ill participants by upwards of 70 percent. It has also reduced annual Medicaid costs by 44% for participants. Said Murphy, “AOT empowers patients and families to work together so they can function in the community with the highest degree of independence. Passage of today’s legislation is a giant step towards delivering desperately needed care for the countless families from across all corners of our country caring for loved ones with schizophrenia and severe mental illnesses. I applaud and thank Chairman Tom Cole for his leadership in advancing this groundbreaking treatment model to help families in crisis get into lifesaving treatment.” Accompanying the funding is language report language which further describes the grant program: “Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health Assisted Outpatient Treatment Grant Program.—The Committee includes $15,000,000 within the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health to implement section 224 of the Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014 (Public Law 113–93), the Assisted Outpatient Treatment Grant Program for Individuals with Serious Mental Illness (AOT). The Committee is aware that nearly half of individuals with schizophrenia or bipolar disorder do not recognize they have a mental illness, making it exceedingly difficult for them to follow through on a treatment regimen. The AOT program will work with families and courts to allow these individuals to obtain treatment while continuing to live in their communities and homes. AOT has been proven to reduce the imprisonment, homelessness and emergency room visit rate among this population by 70 percent. The Committee expects a full report in the fiscal 2017 budget request on the implementation and uses of this $15,000,000.” “A cornerstone principle of my Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act is promoting community-based care and supportive services necessary for those with serious mental illness,” continued Murphy. “No longer will we accept the status quo that leaves millions outside the healthcare system because of serious brain disorders. Investing in community based care like AOT not only provides an alternative to the tragic cycle of homelessness and incarceration, but also creates a path towards recovery.” The Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act includes further incentives and expands the use of community-based alternatives to institutionalization, such as AOT and other assertive-care community approaches, at the state and local level for those with serious mental illness. Information on the Helping Families In Mental Health Crisis Act (H.R. 2646), including bill text, a summary, and additional letters of support, can be viewed here. ###
06.24.2015	Washington, D.C. – The House Appropriations Committee today approved the draft fiscal year 2016 Labor, Health and Human Services (LHHS) funding bill on a vote of 30-21. The legislation includes funding for programs within the Department of Labor, the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Education, and other related agencies. In total, the draft bill includes $153 billion in discretionary funding, which is a reduction of $3.7 billion below the fiscal year 2015 enacted level and $14.6 billion below the President’s budget request. Funding within the bill is targeted to proven programs with the most national benefit, including medical research, public health, and biodefense, as well as activities to ensure Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid services are efficient, effective, and accountable to those Americans they serve. While making these important investments, the bill reduces funding in lower-priority areas, and cuts ineffective or wasteful programs and agencies. The legislation also contains several policy provisions to improve government oversight, protect the rights of all Americans, and bolster economic growth. These provisions will rein in unnecessary regulatory overreach that ties the hands of employers and undermines job creation, maintain longstanding life policies and constitutional protections, and ensure that taxpayer dollars are being appropriately spent. In addition, the legislation defunds existing ObamaCare programs and prohibits any new discretionary funding from being used to further implement ObamaCare. “The funding in this bill is targeted to programs that are proven to produce results. The American people rely on these investments for life-saving research, protection from deadly outbreaks and bio-attacks, safe workplaces, and effective education systems,” House Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers said. “In addition, great efforts were made to ensure none of the funding in the bill is spent wastefully or inappropriately. This includes terminating unnecessary programs, trimming back lower-priority areas, and preventing tax dollars from going toward extreme, intrusive regulations that have a net negative effect on this nation.” “This is a fiscally responsible bill that reduces discretionary spending by nearly $4 billion. At the same time, by carefully reprioritizing where taxpayer dollars are spent, the bill increases funding for important programs that benefit the American people. Specifically, funding is targeted to the National Institutes of Health, the Centers for Disease Control, special education, Head Start, and a number of programs aimed at helping Native American youth. And through the inclusion of several important policy provisions, we have taken steps to rein in the excessive overreach of the Department of Labor and the National Labor Relations Board,” LHHS Subcommittee Chairman Tom Cole said. “This bill reflects the values and priorities of the American taxpayer, setting us on a path that will reduce the deficit while funding programs that make meaningful differences in the lives of Americans.” The following amendments to the FY 2016 LHHS Appropriations bill were adopted by the full committee today: Rep. Cole – The amendment makes technical and non-controversial changes to the bill and report. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote. Rep. Roybal-Allard – The amendment designates $750,000 in funding within the Children and Families Services Programs account to be used for a Child Poverty Study. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote. Rep. Kilmer – The amendment adds report language urging the Department of Education to provide clear and timely guidance to local school districts on how to calculate tax rates for the purposes of receiving certain types of federal aid. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote. Rep. Harris – The amendment prohibits funding to implement or enforce a National Labor Relations Board ruling that allows certain groups of employees within a larger company to form separate unions. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote. Rep. Kaptur – The amendment adds report language directing the Secretary of HHS, in consultation with the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), to provide a report on certain prescription drug costs for Medicare, Medicaid, and the VA, as well as comparisons of these costs to other countries. In addition, it directs HHS to review and report on steps taken to competitively reduce prescription drug costs since 2001. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote. The bill was adopted on a vote of 30-21. For a summary of the bill, click here. For the text of the bill, click here. For the bill report, click here. ### Link to original release via the House Committee on Appropriations
06.18.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after he supported legislation related to Trade Promotion Authority (TPA). This legislation defines the authority the president is allowed to exercise in trade negotiations and how Congress can rightfully scrutinize any trade deals reached with our partners abroad by having oversight throughout the process and demanding accountability of the president. “Trade Promotion Authority represents the authority that today’s president and future presidents should be allowed to exercise in trade negotiations on behalf of the United States,” said Cole. “Not only does this vote for TPA grant the president the authority to negotiate, but it also allows Congress to be more involved from start to end of those negotiations. To be clear, TPA does not support or oppose specific trade agreements being negotiated now or in the future. TPA simply arms and guides the president with a list of objectives from Congress for deal-making, allows lawmakers to have access to progress with international partners, requires that any deal is made available to the public for 60 days and demands final approval from Congress. “Again, while TPA does not represent a specific trade agreement, I believe that it will help position the United States in a better way to encourage free trade and compete against strong competitors like China by helping us establish common rules of the road. While America already exports a lot of products today, there is still much more opportunity for American-made products and important services in the bustling world marketplace. Without TPA, it is much more difficult to open the door to that marketplace.” To watch remarks made by Cole during consideration of TPA legislation in a Rules Committee hearing last week, click here. Last week, Cole released his weekly column to explain what TPA means for American jobs. ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
06.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – The House Appropriations Committee today released the draft fiscal year 2016 Labor, Health and Human Services (LHHS) funding bill, which will be considered in subcommittee tomorrow. The legislation includes funding for programs within the Department of Labor, the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Education, and other related agencies. In total, the draft bill includes $153 billion in discretionary funding, which is a reduction of $3.7 billion below the fiscal year 2015 enacted level and $14.6 billion below the President’s budget request. Funding within the bill is targeted to proven programs with the most national benefit, including medical research, public health, and biodefense, as well as activities to ensure Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid services are efficient, effective, and accountable to those Americans they serve. While making these important investments, the bill reduces funding in lower-priority areas, and cuts ineffective or wasteful programs and agencies. The legislation also contains several policy provisions to improve government oversight, protect the rights of all Americans, and bolster economic growth. These provisions will rein in unnecessary regulatory overreach that ties the hands of employers and undermines job creation, maintain longstanding life policies and constitutional protections, and ensure that taxpayer dollars are being appropriately spent. In addition, the legislation defunds existing ObamaCare programs and prohibits any new discretionary funding from being used to further implement ObamaCare. “This legislation continues our efforts to reduce wasteful spending, to stop harmful and unnecessary regulations that kill jobs and impede economic growth, and to make wise investments in proven programs on behalf of the American taxpayer,” House Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers said. “This bill fulfills these goals, funding cutting-edge medical research, education for disabled children, veterans’ programs, community health centers, Meals on Wheels, and charter schools. At the same time, the bill reflects careful consideration of every program, cutting the fat and making the most of every dollar.” “This is a fiscally responsible bill that reduces discretionary spending by nearly $4 billion. At the same time, by carefully reprioritizing where taxpayer dollars are spent, the bill increases funding for important programs that benefit the American people. Specifically, funding is targeted to the National Institutes of Health, the Centers for Disease Control, special education, Head Start, and a number of programs aimed at helping Native American youth. And through the inclusion of several important policy provisions, we have taken steps to rein in the excessive overreach of the Department of Labor and the National Labor Relations Board,” LHHS Subcommittee Chairman Tom Cole said. “This bill reflects the values and priorities of the American taxpayer, setting us on a path that will reduce the deficit while funding programs that make meaningful differences in the lives of Americans.” Bill Summary: Defunding ObamaCare – The legislation contains several provisions to stop the implementation of ObamaCare – including rescinding prior-year mandatory funds and prohibiting the use of any new discretionary funding to implement ObamaCare. Protecting Life – The bill contains several provisions to protect life, including continuations of all longstanding restrictions on abortion funding that have been included in the legislation in prior years. The legislation also includes the text of the “Health Care Conscience Rights Act.” Department of Labor (DoL) – The bill provides a total of $11.7 billion for DoL – $206 million below the fiscal year 2015 enacted level and $1.4 billion below the President’s request. • Employment Training Administration (ETA) – The legislation provides the ETA with $9.5 billion – a decrease of $196 million (2 percent) below last year’s level and $1 billion (9.8 percent) below the President’s request. State and local workforce training and development programs are prioritized and maintained at fiscal year 2015 enacted levels. The bill also provides responsible, adequate funding for labor enforcement and benefit protection agencies to fulfill their core missions. • Job Corps – The bill provides $1.7 billion for Job Corps, which is the same as the fiscal year 2015 level. This program helps unemployed young Americans receive education, job training, and employment assistance. • Veterans Employment and Training Service (VETS) – The bill provides $271 million for VETS, which is $1.1 million above the fiscal year 2015 level and the same as the President’s request. • Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) – MSHA is funded at $371 million in the legislation, $4.9 million below the fiscal year 2015 level and $23.9 million below the budget request. • Reducing Harmful Red Tape – The legislation includes several provisions designed to help U.S. businesses create jobs and grow the economy by reducing or eliminating overly burdensome government regulations. Some of these include: - A provision providing flexibility in the H-2B program; - A provision prohibiting regulatory changes to the definition of the term “Fiduciary”; - A provision restricting the interpretation of laws and regulations governing the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) “walkaround” inspections. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) – The bill includes a total of $71.3 billion for HHS, an increase of $298 million above last year’s level and $3.9 billion below the President’s budget request. The legislation targets funds to proven programs with the most national benefit, while reducing spending in lower-priority areas. Within this amount, the bill includes: • Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) The bill includes over $6 billion for HRSA – $299 million below the fiscal year 2015 enacted level and $413 million below the President’s budget request. The bill eliminates all funding for the controversial Family Planning Program, saving taxpayers nearly $300 million. Within the total, the bill provides nearly $1.5 billion for Community Health Centers, which is the same as the fiscal year 2015 enacted level and the request. The bill also provides $265 million for the Children’s Hospital Graduate Medical Education program – equal to the fiscal year 2015 enacted level, and $165 million more than the request. Additionally, the legislation includes $102 million for the Healthy Start program – the same as the fiscal year 2015 enacted level and the budget request. • Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) – The legislation includes a total of $7 billion for the CDC – $140 million above the fiscal year 2015 enacted level and equal to the budget request. This includes $6.1 billion in appropriated funds, as well as $914.3 million in transfers from the Prevention and Public Health (PPH) Fund. Within this total, the bill provides $70 million – $50 million above the fiscal year 2015 level and $2 million above the budget request – to expand efforts to combat prescription drug abuse. The bill also increases funding for CDC’s Public Health Preparedness and Response by $108 million over last year’s level – providing a total of $1.56 billion – to ensure that the Strategic National Stockpile and State and Local Preparedness capacity is adequate. These programs provide supplies and response efforts in the event of a bioterror attack or pandemic disease emergency. • National Institutes of Health (NIH) – The bill provides a total $31.2 billion for the NIH, $1.1 billion above the fiscal year 2015 enacted level and $100 million above the President’s budget request. Within this funding, the legislation includes $165 million to support activities for the National Children’s Study, $480.6 million for Clinical and Translational Sciences Awards, and $311.8 million for Institutional Development Awards (IDeA) programs. The bill also provides increases for several targeted research initiatives, including $886 million, a $300 million increase, for an Alzheimer’s disease research initiative; $461 million, a $100 million increase, for an antibiotic resistance initiative; $150 million, a $95 million increase, for the Brain Research through Application of Innovative Neuro-technologies (BRAIN) initiative; and the full $200 million requested for the Precision Medicine Initiative (PMI). • Substance Abuse and Mental Health Administration (SAMHSA) – The bill funds SAMHSA at $3.6 billion – $23 million above the fiscal year 2015 enacted level and $21 million below the President’s budget request. The Substance Abuse Block Grant is funded at $1.8 billion – the same as the fiscal year 2015 level. The bill provides $45 million – a $13.1 million increase – for services that address prescription drug abuse and heroin use in high-risk communities. Criminal justice activities receive $78 million – equal to the fiscal year 2015 level – including $60 million (a $10 million increase) for drug court funding. The legislation maintains a prohibition on federal funds for the purchase of syringes or sterile needles, but allows communities with rapid increases in cases of HIV and Hepatitis to access federal funds for other activities, including substance use counseling and treatment referrals. • Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) – The recommendation provides $3.3 billion for CMS management and operations, which is $344 million below the fiscal year 2015 enacted level and $919 million below the budget request. The bill does not include additional funding to implement ObamaCare programs, and prohibits funds for the new “Center for Consumer Information and Insurance Oversight” and “Navigators” programs. • Administration for Children and Families (ACF) – The bill provides $17.8 billion in discretionary funding for ACF, which is $50 million above the fiscal year 2015 enacted level and $1.9 billion below the President’s budget request. The Head Start program receives $8.8 billion, a $192 million increase, of which $150 million is targeted to Early Head Start and $42 million to a 0.5 percent Cost-of-Living Allowance (COLA) increase for Head Start Grantees. The Family Violence Prevention and Battered Women’s Shelters program is funded at $145 million – a $10 million increase. • Administration for Community Living (ACL) – The bill funds ACL at $1.9 billion, which is $261 million above the fiscal year 2015 enacted level and $161 million below the President’s budget request. The bulk of the increase supports the transition programs under the “Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act” from the Department of Education to ACL, and the transfer of the Traumatic Brain Injury program from HRSA to ACL. The bill also provides $441 million – a $2.5 million increase – for Congregate Meals, and $220 million – a $3.5 million increase – for the Meals on Wheels program. • The bill contains a provision ensuring any new HHS Dietary Guidelines focus only on food and nutrients and have a sound scientific evidence base. Department of Education – The bill funds the Department of Education at $64.4 billion, which is $2.8 billion below the fiscal year 2015 level and $6.4 billion below the President’s budget request. The bill eliminates 19 duplicative, ineffective, or unauthorized education programs, and makes reductions to several other lower-priority programs. • Special Education – The bill includes $12 billion for IDEA special education grants to states, an increase of more than $500 million over the fiscal year 2015 enacted level, which will increase the federal share of special education funding to states from 16 percent to 17 percent. • Charter Schools Program – The bill includes an increase of $22 million over the fiscal year 2015 enacted level for grants to support the creation of new charter schools, for a total of $275 million. • Pell Grants – The maximum Pell Grant award is increased to $5,915, funded by a combination of discretionary and mandatory funds. • Impact Aid – The bill provides nearly $1.3 billion for Impact Aid, an increase of $10 million above the current enacted level. • Policy Provisions – The bill also includes several policy provisions, including prohibitions on the Department of Education from moving forward with regulations to establish a college ratings system, place new requirements on teacher preparation, define “gainful employment” and “credit hour,” and dictate how states must license institutions of higher education. Other Related Agencies – • Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS) – The bill includes $687.8 million for CNCS – maintaining funding for Senior Corps and AmeriCorps VISTA at the fiscal year 2015 level. The bill also provides funding to maintain competitive AmeriCorps state and national grants. • Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB) – The bill provides an advance appropriation of $445 million for CPB for fiscal year 2018, which is the same level of advance funding provided in the fiscal year 2015 enacted level and the budget request. • National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) – The bill includes $200 million for the NLRB – a decrease of $74.2 million (27 percent) below last year’s level and $78 million (28 percent) below the President’s budget request. In addition, the legislation includes several policy provisions to stop the NLRB’s harmful anti-business regulations that would impose additional and excessive costs on American businesses, increase job loss, and further hinder economic growth. Some of these provisions include: a prohibition on use of electronic voting in union elections; a prohibition on implementing new regulations on representation-case procedures; a prohibition on issuing new joint-employer standards; and a prohibition on exercising jurisdiction over Indian tribes. • Social Security Administration (SSA) – The bill provides $11.8 billion to administer SSA activities –an increase of $12 million over the fiscal year 2015 level – to ensure those served by the program receive efficient and timely assistance and services. To view the draft bill, please visit: https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/bills-114hr-sc-ap-fy2016-laborhhs-subcommitteedraft.pdf ### Link to original release via the House Committee on Appropriations
06.12.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senator Heidi Heitkamp today announced that her bipartisan bill to improve the lives of Native children was introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives. U.S. Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) helped introduce the bill in the Senate, where it unanimously passed less than two weeks ago. Democratic Congresswoman Betty McCollum of Minnesota and Republican Congressman Tom Cole of Oklahoma introduced the Senators’ bill to create a Commission on Native children today in the U.S. House of Representatives. Congressman Cole, a member of the Chickasaw Nation in Oklahoma, introduced the bill in the U.S. House of Representatives last Congress as well. Joining Cole and McCollum in introducing the bill are Republican Congressmen Jeff Denham of California and Democratic Congressman Mark Takai of Hawaii. In the opening days of the new Congress, Heitkamp and Murkowski reintroduced their bill. Two weeks later, the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs unanimously approved their bill. It’s the first bill Heitkamp introduced in the Senate. The Senators’ bill would create a Commission on Native Children to identify the complex challenges facing Native children in North Dakota and across the United States by conducting an intensive study on issues including high rates of poverty, staggering unemployment, child abuse, domestic violence, crime, substance abuse, and dire economic opportunities. The Commission would then provide recommendations to better protect Native children and make sure they have the economic and educational tools to thrive. “For decades, the federal government has failed to stand up for the needs of Native youth, but working together across the aisle and in both the Senate and House, we’re working to change that,” said Heitkamp. “We took a giant leap last week when the Senate passed my bill – and the message was clear: Now is the time to reverse the status quo and address the gaping challenges Native youth face. But the story is only half-written. Today, leaders from both sides of the aisle in the House of Representatives united to introduce my bill to create a Commission on Native Children. We must build on this momentum by moving this bill forward to make sure our federal government works with tribes, so we can give every American child the fighting chance at success that they deserve.” “Protecting the future for our native youth is an effort that must start today as we build strong, confident young men and women – even as they face a culture of despair fed by poverty, crime, unemployment, substance abuse, and household violence,” said Murkowski. “This complicated problem deserves a multi-pronged, holistic response that brings to bear all the agencies’ knowledge and expertise. I am confident that the House of Representatives – with lawmakers from urban and rural states – will come together and see the merit in this valuable commission that will examine all the factors and triggers involved, to make informed policy suggestions and turn this cycle around.” “This Commission is an opportunity for the federal government to strengthen our role as trustees of the education, social service, juvenile justice, and health care systems that serve Native children,” said McCollum. “Native American youth from across the nation will bring their voices to bear as advisors to the Commission on the challenges they face and the supports they need. The disparities these young people face demand our focused attention and our best solutions to support the future of tribal nations and our nation as a whole.” “As a member of the Chickasaw Nation of Oklahoma, I was raised to appreciate, remember and embrace my Native American heritage,” said Cole. “Throughout my life, I have carried that with me and sought to provide a voice for tribes as a lawmaker in the House. Along with Rep. Betty McCollum, I am pleased to help introduce a vital piece of legislation that lends a voice and means a great deal to future generations of Native Americans. Through formation of a commission that studies the needs of Native children and federal benefits currently received or lacking, the House companion to Senator Heidi Heitkamp’s bill rightly seeks to improve the livelihood of Native American children and helps the federal government keep its trust responsibility.” Background: Conditions for young people in Indian Country are tragic and must be addressed. For example: • More than one in three American Indian and Alaska Native children live in poverty; • Suicide rates for Native children ages 15-24 years old are 2.5 times the national average and is the second-leading cause of death in that age group; • High school graduation rate for students at schools run by the Bureau of Indian Education is 53 percent, compared to over 80 percent for white students; • While the overall rate of child mortality in the U.S. has decreased since 2000, the rate for Native children has increased 15 percent; and • 60 percent of American Indian schools do not have adequate high-speed Internet or digital technology to meet the requirements of college and career ready standards. To help reverse these impacts, the Commission on Native Children would conduct a comprehensive study of the programs, grants, and resources available for Native children, both under government agencies and locally in Native communities, with the goal of developing a sustainable system for providing wrap-around services. An 11-member Commission would then issue a report highlighting challenges and best practices for better serving Native children. A Native Children Subcommittee would also provide advice to the Commission. The Commission’s report would address how to achieve: • Better Use of Existing Resources – The Commission would identify ways to streamline current federal, state, and local programs to be more effective and give tribes greater flexibility to devise programs for their communities in the spirit of self-determination and allow government agencies to redirect resources to the areas of most need. • Increased Coordination – The Commission would seek to improve coordination of existing programs benefitting Native children. The federal government houses programs across numerous and varying agencies, yet these programs too often do not coordinate. • Measurable Outcomes – The Commission would recommend measures to determine the wellbeing of Native children, and use these measurements to propose short-term, mid-term, and long-term national policy goals. • Stronger Data – The Commission would seek to develop better data collection methods. Too often Native children are left out of the conversation because existing data collection, reporting, and analysis practices exclude them. • Stronger Private Sector Partnerships – The Commission would seek to identify obstacles to public-private partnerships in Native communities. • Implementation of Best Practices – The Commission would identify and highlight successful models that can be adopted in Native communities. Link to original release sent by Senator Heitkamp ### Contact: Abbie McDonough/Julia Krieger (202) 224-8898 (Heitkamp) Matthew Felling (202) 224-9301 (Murkowski) Sam McCullough (202) 226-3704 (McCollum) Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165 (Cole)
06.11.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), a member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 2685, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2016. The funding legislation seeks to maintain the nation’s readiness. It includes a 2.3 percent pay raise for military service members. The final version of the legislation included an amendment authored by Cole that prevents the furlough of those employed under the Working Capital Fund (WCF), if sequestration is the reason for that action. Approximately 180,000 civilian workers in WCF units are not paid through direct appropriations and, therefore, should be exempt from cuts due to sequestration. Air Logistics Centers at Tinker, Hill and Robbins have 26,087 civilian personnel affected; that includes 8,900 employed at Tinker Air Force Base in the Fourth District of Oklahoma. “Lawmakers and indeed, all Americans, have an important duty to those who volunteered to protect and preserve the United States in the military,” said Cole. “Certainly, we face very real economic struggles as a nation, which has required a shift in our funding priorities in many areas of government. But no matter what year it is or the nature of our circumstances, the military never loses its importance to the safety and security of our nation. In today’s world, the threats to our national security are ever present, and that requires the maintenance of an always strong and robust military able to address threats wherever and whenever they occur.” Click here for Congressman Cole’s remarks on the House floor upon introduction of the amendment, which passed by voice vote. Text of the amendment is available here. Other bill highlights are listed here. ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
06.10.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), a member of the House Committee on Appropriations, released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 2577, the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development and Related Agencies (THUD) Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2016. The legislation fulfills funding for the nation’s transportation and infrastructure and prioritizes housing projects with the greatest need or participation nationwide. The final bill included a $525 million increase—from last year’s funding level—for loans that can be provided by the Indian Housing Guarantee Program. It also continues support of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Contract Tower Program in order to keep air traffic control towers active and avoid the threat of furloughs for air-traffic control personnel. Like the CJS Appropriations bill passed in the House last week, the THUD Appropriations bill includes a provision of great value to the future and effectiveness of weather forecasting ahead of potential natural disasters. The bill has language that encourages the FAA to collaborate with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) regarding the multi-function phased array radar program (MPAR). “Whether Americans are traveling by road, rail or air, it is critical that our infrastructure is safe and up to the task,” said Cole. “Passage of the THUD Appropriations bill helps maintain that infrastructure utilized by all Americans and also deals with current housing programs in a responsible manner.” ###
06.04.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) listed the University of Oklahoma in Norman as an award recipient of NASA’s Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research (EPSCoR) to help further the agency’s mission. As a member of the House Committee on Appropriations, Cole recently helped prevent passage of an amendment to the CJS Appropriations bill that would decrease EPSCoR funding; he also worked to ensure full funding for the program in the America COMPETES Act. The university was selected for a grant that lasts three years to research “Extracting the Photonic Spectrum for the Long Range Exploration of Space: A Hybrid Photovoltaic Photon Upconversion and Biological System for Energy Production and Life Support.” “I am very pleased to hear that the University of Oklahoma will be one of the hubs for NASA research through EPSCoR over the next three years,” said Cole. “This impressive grant award further solidifies that there is exceptional talent in Oklahoma. I feel confident that the individuals utilizing the important research and development funding will make great strides for NASA’s mission and make our state proud.” ###
06.03.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), a member of the House Committee on Appropriations, released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 2578, the Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies (CJS) Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2016. The legislation addresses federal programs and areas of government related to law enforcement, national security, scientific research and space exploration. Of particular value to Oklahoma, the legislation funds the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) with full funding for the National Weather Service (NWS) and funding for improvements to weather forecasting, including the next generation weather and aircraft radars. “I am pleased that the House acted responsibly and passed legislation that funds programs and areas of government that keep our nation safe and maintain America’s economic and innovative leadership,” said Cole. “Especially after another difficult tornado and severe weather season for Oklahoma, I am encouraged to see provisions to make weather forecasting even better in order to provide ample warning for communities like ours that could face natural disasters.” ###
05.22.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) congratulated this year’s Fourth District winner of the Congressional Art Competition. Ryan Neal is the son of Sandy Travis and Charles Neal, art student of Melissa Mayo and a 2015 graduate of Duncan High School. His winning artwork, Detailed Metal, is a detailed drawing created with Prisma colors and inspired by the latest Transformers movie. It will be displayed in the Cannon Tunnel to the U.S. Capitol for a year. Earlier this spring, high school students from across the nation were invited to enter the competition through their respective congressional offices. Entries for the Fourth District were judged by Dr. Victor Youritzin, Professor of Art History at the University of Oklahoma. “Each time the House of Representatives hosts this national art contest, I am reminded that the Fourth District is home to many talented young artists,” said Cole. “I was very impressed with Ryan’s drawing and even more so when I learned that he spent a month working on it. The attention to detail is incredible and a sure testament to Ryan’s passion for drawing. I look forward to seeing his artwork displayed in our nation’s capital.” When asked about his choice of media for the winning piece, Neal explained, “I have always enjoyed drawing and really liked drawing with detail. I started off with just pencil and then used color. From there, it got better and better.” "I am very proud of Ryan for his accomplishments this year,” said Mayo. “I have only been his AP Art teacher for two years, and he has grown so much as an artist, finding his artistic voice.” Photo of the winning artwork is available for download and media use here. ###
05.20.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) introduced legislation this week that would help families rebuilding their homes after disasters. Currently, the Small Business Administration (SBA) provides homeowners, renters and personal-property owners with low-interest loans to help recover from a disaster. The Tornado Family Safety Act of 2015, introduced by Cole, clarifies that SBA disaster loans can be used by homeowners for construction of safe room shelters within rebuilt homes. This legislation underscores the type of projects that are eligible for these SBA disaster loans, which includes loans for construction of safe rooms. Under current law, SBA can increase the size of a home disaster loan up to 20 percent of the total damage to lessen the risk of property damage by future disasters of the same kind. “Oklahomans are no strangers to severe weather and the terrible destruction that can result from it,” said Cole. “Considering the yearly risk and unpredictability of tornadoes that exists, it is not a matter of ‘if’ but ‘when’ it will occur. Two years ago this week, tornadoes tore through my hometown of Moore and other surrounding areas. Several days this month, storms have threatened and impacted other communities across the state, including Bridge Creek located in the Fourth District. In every instance, families have not only been shaken by the disaster but many are forced to pick up the pieces—sometimes from nothing—and rebuild. When this happens, it is critical that the replacement homes are ready to withstand future disasters, and I believe that construction of safe room shelters can help provide much-needed peace of mind to Oklahomans who have suffered losses from severe weather.” Under guidelines from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the International Code Council (ICC), a safe room should withstand 250 mph winds and the impact of a 15-pound plank hitting a wall at 100 mph, according to the Insurance Institute for Business and Home Safety. Safe rooms designed to the FEMA and ICC standards are recommended for both tornadoes and hurricanes. For individual homes, a safe room could cost between $3,000 and $12,000. ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
05.19.2015	Washington, D.C. - Today, Ways and Means Oversight Subcommittee Chairman Peter Roskam (R-IL) released the following statement after introducing H.R. 2400, legislation to create a Special Inspector General for Monitoring the Affordable Care Act (SIGMA). The bill is supported by all Majority members of the Oversight Subcommittee and all key oversight subcommittee chairs, as well as a wide array of prominent conservative advocacy organizations. Companion legislation in the Senate has been introduced by Senator Pat Roberts (R-KS). “In the years since Democrats rammed Obamacare through Congress, our country has already seen the costly consequences of this law: billions of dollars wasted on a failed website and overpayments, millions of Americans kicked off their healthcare plans, and skyrocketing premiums for hardworking families and small businesses,” said Chairman Roskam. “Now, a pending Supreme Court decision threatens to upend the law—casting further uncertainty over the future of our entire healthcare system. We need assurance that—until Obamacare is repealed and replaced—there is rigorous oversight in place to prevent more taxpayer dollars from being squandered on this law. A SIGMA alone would have needed authority to oversee all federal agencies involved in implementing and administering Obamacare and protect the American people from its harmful effects. I want to thank my colleagues for their strong support of this measure to finally hold the Administration accountable for this broken law.” “We need to do everything possible to repeal and replace Obamacare with real health reforms that lower costs and restore the all-important relationship between a patient and their doctor,” said Senator Roberts (R-KS). “However, as long as this law is on the books, we need a watchdog, namely a Special Inspector General, to investigate its implementation and ensure our taxpayer dollars are being spent within the letter of the law.” “It’s clear Obamacare isn’t working, which is a predictable result of what happens when legislation is crafted behind closed doors and then forced through Congress with no bipartisan input or oversight,” said Senator Rob Portman (R-OH), Chairman of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations. “Our bill will help to put in place an independent watchdog so that we can know how exactly this law is impacting Americans. Ultimately, Obamacare should be repealed and replaced with healthcare reform that is patient-centered and consumer-driven that decreases costs and increases access to quality care.” “Since its inception, Obamacare has resulted in millions of Americans losing their health care plans, spiking premiums, and untold government waste through broken insurance exchanges run by unelected bureaucrats,” said Congressman Bill Flores (R-TX), Chairman of the Republican Study Committee. “The deeper we dig into Obamacare, the more problems we find. Establishing a Special Inspector General will increase transparency and hold the federal government accountable for its bureaucracy’s many failures. While the House works to repeal the president’s disastrous health care law, America’s families and taxpayers have a right to know the true cost of Obamacare’s waste and abuse.” “President Obama’s signature health care law was passed deceptively, under the cloak of secrecy and through backroom deals,” said Congressman Jim Jordan (R-OH), Chairman of the House Freedom Caucus and House Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Health Care, Benefits, and Administrative Rules. “A Special Inspector General would be able to thoroughly review Obamacare and provide oversight of how it’s being implemented. Mandatory reports would ensure that Congress and more importantly the American people know exactly how their tax dollars are being spent through this unaffordable government takeover of the health insurance industry.” “In both my legal career and service in congress, I have seen the effective use of Special Inspectors General to provide the necessary oversight and protection the American people demand and deserve of their government,” said Congressman Tom Marino (R-PA), Chairman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Regulatory Reform, Commercial and Antitrust Law. “Chairman Roskam’s SIGMA legislation is absolutely vital to gaining access to information about Obamacare’s performance, or lack thereof, while adding an independent set of eyes watching the law’s implementation until we can fully repeal it. I applaud the Chairman’s work and that of our colleagues who seek every avenue to protect the American people from Obamacare.” “As expected when it was passed by Democrats and throughout implementation, the president’s healthcare law falls short of success for the majority of the American people,” said Congressman Tom Cole (R-OK), Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education. “While I certainly support full repeal of Obamacare, I believe that Congressman Peter Roskam’s legislative efforts to improve oversight and accountability of the law through creation of an impartial inspector general makes sense. In the days ahead, I am hopeful that we can save taxpayer dollars and organize some of the chaos and confusion that has resulted from the president’s unworkable law.” “Real health care reform delivers care patients need, at a price they can afford, from the doctor of their choosing,” said Congressman Tim Murphy (R-PA), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. “Unfortunately, what has been forced on the American people accomplishes none of that and is laden with problems. The SIGMA Act is a critically needed oversight tool to bring fulltime accountability to the President’s failed law.” “There is no question that Obamacare has already taken a toll on our economy—from forcing small businesses to cut employee hours to inflating healthcare costs for American families,” said Congressman Phil Roe, M.D. (R-TN), Chairman of the House Education and the Workforce Subcommittee on Health, Employment, Labor, and Pensions. “Instituting a SIGMA would set up a robust oversight system to rein in the president’s health care law and I am proud to support this commonsense legislation.” “If there’s any government boondoggle that cries out for a special inspector general, it’s Obamacare. ATR is proud to support this bill,” said Grover Norquist, President of Americans for Tax Reform (ATR). “In order for Americans to fully understand the impacts of the ACA they should have a clear account of how this law that affects their lives, and we at AFP believe that this proposal goes above and beyond to achieve such oversight,” said Brent Garner, Vice President of Government Affairs for Americans for Prosperity (AFP). “When the government starts any new program oversight is expected, but when a government program takes over a fifth of the American economy, taxpayer dollars should have the highest level of protection.” “I applaud Chairman Roskam’s effort to create a Special Inspector General for Monitoring the Affordable Care Act (SIGMA),” said Tom Schatz, President of Council for Citizens Against Government Waste (CCAGW). “The Affordable Care Act has proven to be so complex and riddled with inefficiencies that a finely focused investigative operation should be created to uncover and expose waste, fraud, abuse, and mismanagement.” “Your legislation to create a Special Inspector General’s office for Obamacare is long overdue,” said David Williams, President of Taxpayers Protection Alliance (TPA). “TPA favors full repeal of Obamacare, but as long as it exists as law, it is important to have proper oversight for any government money being used to fund the program. TPA urges all members of the House to support your legislation creating an Obamacare Special Inspector General, so that taxpayers can have a full accounting of any expenditures related to this law in the past, present, and future.” “Failed websites, legally questionable waivers, distribution of incorrect tax forms, overpayment of subsidies – these are just a few of the myriad reasons why we need greater oversight of Obamacare,” said Brandon Arnold, Executive Vice President of the National Taxpayers Union. “That’s why National Taxpayers Union is happy to endorse Congressman Peter Roskam’s SIGMA Act, which would help protect taxpayers from further waste, fraud and abuse by creating a Special Inspector General for Monitoring the Affordable Care Act.” “It is extremely important for Congress to conduct oversight of the health overhaul law that mandates sweeping changes to one sixth of the U.S. economy, spends trillions of taxpayer dollars, and impacts the health care of virtually everyone in the United States,” said Grace-Marie Turner, President of The Galen Institute. “Congressman Roskam is to be commended for working to protect citizens by calling for a Special Inspector General to conduct audits about the ACA’s implementation and spending and to regularly report the findings to the Congress and the American people. An independent special inspector general is needed because the Obama administration has demonstrated that it obscures and even hides information that Congress needs in order to make public policy decisions about the law and to make sure taxpayer dollars are being spent appropriately." “Your legislation is a critical step in helping end in the squandering of billions of taxpayer dollars due to waste, fraud and abuse through the creation of a Special Inspector General to provide financial oversight to Obamacare,” said Amy Noone Frederick, President of the 60 Plus Association. “Given the enormous complexity of the healthcare law, Congress has a responsibility to ensure that taxpayer dollars are protected and this legislation will help do just that. The 60 Plus Association is proud to stand with you and whole-heartedly support the SIGMA Act of 2015.” "Thank you for introducing legislation to provide increased oversight of the Affordable Care Act,” said Kevin Kuhlman, Director of Legislative Affairs for National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB). “Small businesses have long been concerned about the law and its implementation, and requiring reports on all aspects of the law will help provide the transparency that small business owners and all taxpayers deserve from their government." "ACA's disruptive impact on small businesses and all Americans must be investigated and measured,” said Karen Kerrigan, President and CEO of the Small Business and Entrepreneurship Council (SBE Council). “Significant taxpayer resources have been expended on botched health insurance exchanges and Healthcare.gov's poor rollout, HHS missteps and bad decision-making in general. An unbiased IG is needed to monitor how tax dollars have been spent, are being spent, and to further investigate the workings of this vast program. The SIGMA Act provides for the focused oversight and accountability that taxpayers deserve." ### Link to original release Contact: Michael Shapiro (202) 225-4561 (Roskam) Sarah Little (202) 224-4774 (Roberts) Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165 (Cole)
05.15.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1735, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year 2016. The bill authorizes funding for our nation’s military personnel, readiness and operations. In accordance with the FY16 joint budget resolution, the authorization for national defense is $611.8 billion with $89.3 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO). Each year, the passage of NDAA ensures that the military is trained and equipped with the best resources to defend the United States. In this year’s bill, that includes equipment and cyber technology updates to adequately monitor and respond to threats wherever they arise. In addition, the legislation rescinds executive authority for unilateral transfer of terrorists, provides aid to Ukraine for combating Russian aggression and offers assistance to Middle Eastern allies for stopping the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). As recommended by the Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission, the bill includes modernization of benefits and retirement options available to military and their families. Starting in 2017, this version of NDAA sets up a retirement plan for more than 83 percent of service members through a Thrift Savings Plan. Cole sponsored, cosponsored or supported a number of amendments included in the final bill that benefit Oklahoma. In particular, he championed specific amendments to ensure current and future sustainment and maintenance work continues at Tinker Air Force Base. “I am pleased that the House has renewed our commitment to a strong national defense through passage of the National Defense Authorization Act,” said Cole. “As our military service members, veterans, military retirees and their families know all too well, the safety and sense of security felt by most Americans doesn’t come without a price. It requires a robust military, equipped with the best, most up-to-date resources to answer threats both at home and abroad. “America’s military strength and ability to project power is critical to our nation’s safety and sense of security, especially in a day and age when threats continue to arise. Whether it’s a terrorist group in the Middle East threatening our allies in the region or Russia bullying our friends in Ukraine, there are very real problems around the world that require American resolve. At a moment’s notice, we must stand by our friends and strike our enemies, and we cannot do that without a strong military. “Just as our military service members answer the call to defend the United States, so too should Americans always prioritize the funding they need to be successful. Inadequate funding is out of the question.” Along with members of the Oklahoma and Kansas delegation, Cole joined in support of an amendment led by Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-03) that ensures military readiness precedes the needs of an animal species like the Lesser Prairie Chicken and the American Burying Beetle. According to current law, when a military base is within range of these species, it must consult with the Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) to ensure development or expansion projects or training exercises do not disrupt their habitat. “While it is important to take care of the world around us, the regulations currently imposed by the Fish and Wildlife Service regarding the Lesser Prairie Chicken and American Burying Beetle are unnecessary. It is outrageous to slow the important development and training of our troops in order to comply with outdated bureaucratic regulations,” concluded Cole. ###
05.01.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), a member of the House Committee on Appropriations, released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 2028, the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2016. With $35.4 billion in total discretionary spending, the legislation provides funding for critical water infrastructure projects and maintenance. It also strengthens and protects America’s nuclear capability and recommends better usage and development of the nation’s resources to encourage energy independence. “Especially in light of mounting threats abroad, often in countries from which the United States depends on oil exports, I am pleased that the legislation passed today points us in the direction of energy independence,” said Cole. “In addition, the bill prioritizes the nation’s security by protecting and maintaining our nuclear capability. Further still, it funds important water infrastructure projects to facilitate commerce. Today’s vote is truly a win for the American people because it seeks to ensure the nation’s security and competitive strength.” ###
04.30.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 2029, the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2016. With $76.6 billion in total discretionary spending, this legislation provides funding for current and ongoing infrastructure and support projects for active-duty military as well as programs, assistance and benefits for our nation’s veterans. Of particular importance to Oklahoma, the legislation funds construction projects at Fort Sill Military Post, Tinker Air Force Base, Altus Air Force Base and the Oklahoma Air National Guard stationed at Will Rogers Airport. At Fort Sill, that includes $56 million for barracks renovation and $13.4 million for a training support facility. At Tinker AFB, that includes $12.9 million for an air traffic control tower and $37 million for KC-46A tanker depot maintenance. “The special call of duty to defend our country demands courage and sacrifice both during and after service in the military,” said Cole. “Not only is this required of those who answer the call, but military families are also directly impacted by an immediate family member’s decision to serve. As a grateful country, we owe these brave individuals and their families the best possible care from the moment they commit to serve onward. I am very pleased that the legislation passed today shows bipartisan commitment to improving and upgrading the resources available to active-duty service members and ensuring that veterans receive the care they were promised in a timely manner.” In response to mismanagement at the Department of Veterans Affairs, the legislation helps fulfill the care promised to veterans. The bill recommends funds for staff to process the massive backlog of benefits claims and encourages modernization of the health records system and construction projects to better answer the demand. “After the mismanagement at the Department of Veterans Affairs that resulted in extended wait times for veterans seeking care, it is critical that our veterans not be treated in this fashion ever again. This bill provides the resources to ensure that appropriate solutions are implemented and that veterans who need care receive it in a timely manner,” concluded Cole. Cole is a member of the House Committee on Appropriations. Both Tinker AFB and Fort Sill are located in the Fourth District of Oklahoma. ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
04.30.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed S. Con Res. 11, the FY16 Budget Resolution Conference Report. This agreement balances the budget in 10 years, repeals Obamacare to lead the way for patient-centered reforms and provides funding to maintain a strong national defense. Passage of the legislation in both chambers will mark the first time since 2009 that Congress has agreed upon a budget. “The budget agreement that was passed today accomplishes two important objectives,” said Cole. “It shows that under Republican leadership, the House and the Senate can reach agreement and offer a common vision for the good of the American people and generations to come. For the first time since 2009, I am pleased to see both chambers participate in the process. Not only does this budget restore regular order and provide appropriators with a plan to guide spending, but the blueprint confronts some of the very real problems in front of us. I am particularly pleased that this agreement reforms entitlement spending, repeals Obamacare, strengthens military funding and sets the nation on a responsible path that balances the budget without raising taxes. ” To watch Congressman Cole’s remarks in support of the joint budget vision during its consideration in the House Committee on Rules, click here. ###
04.30.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Tom Cole (R-OK) sent a letter along with 28 bipartisan Members of Congress to Speaker John Boehner urging that an authorization for use of military force, or AUMF, be brought up for debate and vote in the relevant committees and on the House Floor. “I find it deeply ironic that Congress has been so willing to wade into a diplomatic agreement with Iran that is not yet finalized, but not take up its constitutionally-mandated responsibility to declare and authorize war against ISIS,” said Rep. Adam Schiff. “More than eight months into the war in Syria and Iraq, Congress continues to sit on the sidelines without a debate or vote. Congressional abdication of our responsibility to declare war, or to deny authorization for war, would set a terrible precedent and shift war-making powers substantially, and inexorably towards the Executive.” “Clearly, the president underestimated the threat ISIL could pose to our partners abroad, particularly in the Middle East, as well as to the United States,” said Rep. Tom Cole. “Even though I wish it would have come sooner, I am pleased that the president recently submitted a request to Congress in order to authorize force to combat this dangerous enemy. Especially Since Congress is constitutionally charged with war making power, it is critical that we act on this authority quickly. While the first steps are behind us in the House through conduction of hearings, it is important that we continue to move in a swift manner to debate, consider and vote on legislation on the House floor. Each day that we delay real action on the matter is another day that ISIL grows stronger.” In the letter, the Members wrote: “We are deeply concerned that eight months into Operation Inherent Resolve, the House has taken no action on an Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) which would provide a clear legal justification for the actions against ISIL. While hearings have been held in the House Armed Services Committee and the Foreign Affairs Committee, no markup has taken place. The most recent Legislative Memo released by the Majority Leader contains no suggestion that consideration of an AUMF on the floor is imminent. This dereliction of our constitutional duty causes great injury to the Congress, and threatens our role as a check on the President's power to make war.” The letter was sent along with Reps. Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Walter Jones (R-NC), Peter Welch (D-VT), Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Peter Defazio (D-OR), Bradley Byrne (R-AL), Charlie Rangel (D-NY), Rob Woodall (R-GA), Peter Visclosky (D-IN), Scott Rigell (R-VA), James McGovern (D-MA), Reid Ribble (R-WI), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Mark Sanford (R-SC), Jim McDermott (D-WA), Steve Pearce (R-NM), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Rich Nugent (R-FL), André Carson (D-IN), Mick Mulvaney (R-SC), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Kathy Castor (D-FL), Ann Kirkpatrick (D-AZ), Mark Takano (D-CA), Stephen Lynch (D-MA), Jim Costa (D-CA), Eric Swalwell (D-CA), Katherine Clark (D-MA). The full text of the letter, sent today, is below: Dear Speaker Boehner: Roughly 250 days have passed since the President ordered military action against the Islamic State in the Levant (ISIL). Since that time, the United States, along with our coalition allies, has undertaken thousands of strikes against ISIL targets in Syria and Iraq. Like you, we believe that the United States must confront and ultimately destroy the threat of ISIL, which has shown itself to be a barbaric terrorist group, destabilizing the region, killing thousands, and displacing millions more. However, we are deeply concerned that eight months into Operation Inherent Resolve, the House has taken no action on an Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) which would provide a clear legal justification for the actions against ISIL. While hearings have been held in the House Armed Services Committee and the Foreign Affairs Committee, no markup has taken place. The most recent Legislative Memo released by the Majority Leader contains no suggestion that consideration of an AUMF on the floor is imminent. This dereliction of our constitutional duty causes great injury to the Congress, and threatens our role as a check on the President's power to make war. The President has claimed legal authority for the strikes under the AUMF passed in 2001 in response to the September 11, 2001 attacks. Whatever the legal merits of that argument, the 2001 AUMF is at best an inexact fit for the threat posed by ISIL. ISIL came into existence more than a decade after the passage of the 2001 AUMF, and it has at times come into direct conflict with al Qaeda. The far preferable course, which would send the message of unity and strength, is to pass a new AUMF, specific to ISIL and the threat it poses, rather than relying on an ill-fitting and outdated authorization. The Administration has repeatedly said that it would welcome a new AUMF, specific and tailored to the operations against ISIL. The President, during his State of the Union address, called for Congress to pass a new authority, and in February the Administration transmitted proposed legislative language. We recognize that Members, both Republicans and Democrats, have different views as to how an AUMF should be constructed. However, those differences are all the more reason to allow the House to work its will through the legislative process. Each additional day that passes without Congress taking up an AUMF for our operations against ISIL undermines our authority and role in matters of war and peace. If we refuse to debate a resolution on the weightiest question any nation faces - whether to take military action - we cede to the Executive Branch a power that the framers intentionally delegated to Congress. This shirking of our duty will have lasting effects, serving to expand the scope of executive power at the expense of the Congress. We urge you to instruct the appropriate committees to hold a mark-up and to set aside floor time at the earliest possible juncture for the House to debate and vote on an Authorization to Use Military Force against ISIL. Sincerely, ### Contact: Patrick Boland (202) 225-4176 (Schiff) Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165 (Cole)
04.29.2015	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) announced that the U.S. House of Representatives passed his legislation directing the Secretary of the Interior to conduct a study on the feasibility of designating the Chief Standing Bear National Historic Trail (H.R. 984). Fortenberry spoke before the House of Representatives in support of the legislation. A video of his remarks can be found below here. “Mr. Speaker, the establishment of a Chief Standing Bear National Trail would honor both the courage of this man and the great contribution to the freedom and the civil liberties of our nation that he brought about. This bill is an important first step toward establishing the trail, and I look forward to continuing to work with the committee and the National Park Service to make this a reality.” Congressman Tom Cole (R-OK), who cosponsored the legislation, made the following statement: “Chief Standing Bear’s unwavering fight to secure equal treatment under the law for America’s native people has helped pave the way for many more remarkable achievements by Native Americans across America. Designating a trail in his memory would rightly honor his memory, secure his legacy and inspire generations to come. I am very pleased by Congressman Fortenberry’s commitment to making that a reality in the future.” The legislation now moves to the U.S. Senate for consideration. Fortenberry introduced the legislation last month with Congressman Cole. Fortenberry and Cole both serve on the House Appropriations Committee. ### Link to original release Contact: Jennifer Allen (202) 225-4806 (Fortenberry) Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165 (Cole)
04.29.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after he was named a recipient of the Spirit of Enterprise Award from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce for his voting record during the second session of the 113th Congress. This annual award recognizes members of both the House and Senate who voted in favor of pro-growth, pro-jobs legislation as noted in the Chamber’s yearly How They Voted publication. “When American businesses thrive, it follows that all of America benefits as well,” said Congressman Cole. “ I am honored to be recognized by the U.S. Chamber for my commitment to strengthening and protecting businesses of every size and empowering American entrepreneurs. These are the individuals that help make our country great, and it’s important for lawmakers to reinforce the American dream by voting for policies that help them succeed.” “For 50 years, through our How They Voted scorecard, the U.S. Chamber has been recognizing legislators from both sides of the aisle who have worked to pass legislation and enact policies that bolster our country’s economy, create jobs and keep our nation’s spirit of enterprise alive,” U.S. Chamber President and CEO Thomas J. Donohue said. “The Spirit of Enterprise award honors those members of Congress like Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) who has recognized the need and shown a commitment to pro-growth policies in the second session of the 113th Congress.” For more information about the U.S. Chamber’s Spirit of Enterprise Award, click here. ###
04.23.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation this week to help protect against cyber threats. The Protecting Cyber Networks Act (H.R. 1560) and National Cybersecurity Protection Advancement Act (H.R. 1731) recommend and clarify appropriate ways for private companies to help the nation combat cyber threats. Both bills provide an avenue for private companies to voluntarily share indicators of cyber threats with the federal government while safeguarding personal information and protecting the privacy of individuals. “In a world where digital boundaries change constantly, it is important for the United States to remain vigilant and combat threats to our national security, particularly in the digital realm,” said Cole. “While our nation and allies face dangerous enemies around the world, we must assume that those same enemies are continuing to launch cyber attacks on our homeland. By enlisting the voluntary help of private companies, I am pleased that the legislation passed by the House this week strengthens our ability to identify potential threats before causing damage and without compromising personal information.” To watch Congressman Cole’s remarks in support of both bills during a hearing in the House Committee on Rules earlier this week, click here. ###
04.17.2015	Washington, D.C. – Members of the Oklahoma congressional delegation joined in remembrance of the tragic bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building on April 19, 1995. The act of domestic terrorism that took place 20 years ago claimed 168 innocent lives in Oklahoma City and left families, loved ones and communities forever changed. “I will never forget the hallowed expressions of the men and women who had worked themselves to exhaustion helping their fellow citizens in the explosion’s aftermath. And I will never forget the outpour of support from across the country. Everywhere we turned, a hand was reaching out to pull us back to our feet,” said Rep. Frank Lucas. “Before that fateful day, many folks may have overlooked Oklahoma. If you didn’t go down I-35 or down old Route 66, you might have missed us. But on that day, 20 years ago, we were thrust onto the world stage and demonstrated that in the worst of circumstances we could reemerge stronger and more united than ever. Oklahoma and the rest of our nation changed on that day. However, in the wake of tragedy, our resolve and sense of community has only grown. Today we honor the memories of the 168 souls who were taken from us and those whose lives were changed forever.” “Even though time has passed, the nightmare that took place 20 years ago vividly remains for many and our sorrow still lingers for those lost in Oklahoma City on April 19, 1995,” said Rep. Tom Cole. “When I think back on that fateful day, I remember the heartbreak, pain and shock felt by all—but most especially by the families, friends and loved ones of those whose lives were prematurely and unfairly taken. In the midst of a terrible tragedy, I remember the bravery and strength displayed by first responders. I will also never forget the outpouring of love and support within our own communities and from countless others across the nation and around the world. And I shall always be grateful for the splendid leadership by Governor Frank Keating, First Lady Cathy Keating, Oklahoma City Mayor Ron Norick and Rep. Frank Lucas in that time of tragedy and triumph for the state of Oklahoma. ” “With the anniversary of this terrible tragedy, we will grieve the loss of many innocent adults and children, stand with the survivors and also give thanks for the first responders and the volunteers from Oklahoma and across the country that helped in the aftermath,” said Rep. Markwayne Mullin. “It is because of the strength of our communities and the help from Americans across this great nation that our state rebounded stronger than before. And our country came to know the Oklahoma Standard—the way in which Oklahomans come together in times of tragedy and hardship. So from the ashes of this evil act, our state built a message of hope and love. It is through these principles that we can overcome any challenge.” "Twenty years ago the Oklahoma City bombing seared the concept of terrorism on American soil into our national consciousness and proved that we are all vulnerable, even in the heartland,” said Rep. Jim Bridenstine. “I was in college at Rice University in 1995. All of us remember exactly where we were that day, and we will never forget the 168 people who were killed. Terrorism is evil, yet the incredible response to tragedies like we experienced in Oklahoma 20 years ago serve to highlight the strength, resolve, and resiliency of the American people to the world." “April 19th, 1995 will forever be one of those days that Oklahomans live with every day of their life,” said Rep. Steve Russell. “Not only did it affect our citizens, it also opened our nation’s eyes to the frightening thought of domestic terrorism. It is because of events like these that we must never let our guard down and must remain vigilant in protecting our entire homeland. As we reflect on the 20th anniversary, let us pray for the families that lost loved ones, and for the many survivors, that they may be granted a special comfort and peace.” “Today we remember the 168 Oklahomans, including young children, who were killed in an evil act of domestic terrorism in Oklahoma City,” said Sen. Jim Inhofe. “We remember the rescue workers, the firefighters and everyone who rushed to the scene to provide aid and extend comfort. What arose from the rubble that day was the Oklahoma Standard – strangers helping strangers, giving sacrificially for the betterment of our great state. Since then, the rest of the nation has seen this rich characteristic on display time and again as Oklahomans pull up their boots in trying times and walk forward with hope that comes from banding together. May we stand in solidarity today to remember the victims, to give thanks to first responders, and to continue to pray for Oklahoma and the families and friends who lost loved ones on April 19, 1995.” “On this solemn anniversary of the Oklahoma City bombing, my family and staff remember the lives that were lost 20 years ago,” said Sen. James Lankford. “We remember the first responders who acted selflessly in a time of need. We remember the families who lost loved ones, and we remember the survivors who continue to re-count and re-live that fateful day. We lift up the families impacted by this tragic event and all Oklahomans who did not let fear overcome their love for our fellow man. When faced with anguish, Oklahomans thrived. We did not allow our hope to fade. Our state experienced firsthand Psalm 34:18 which says, ‘the Lord is close to the brokenhearted and saves those who are crushed in spirit’. This year we are all finding practical ways to serve each other, even those we disagree with, so we never again allow anger to blind our eyes to one another. May God bless our state, and may we never lose our resilient Oklahoma spirit.” ###House members of the Oklahoma congressional delegation offered remarks in remembrance of the tragedy on April 19, 1995 and led a moment of silence to honor the victims on the House floor.
04.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after he was named a 2015 recipient of the American Bar Association’s Congressional Justice Award. This annual award is given to lawmakers who have shown leadership in matters of justice. As one of four lawmakers who received the award this year, Cole was specifically recognized for his support of the Legal Services Corporation and his leadership related to passage of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act. “I am honored to be recognized by the American Bar Association for my work on issues to ensure justice is upheld both on tribal lands and across the country,” Cole said. “Especially in light of my Chickasaw heritage, I believe that Native Americans have a critical perspective and role in American society that should be acknowledged and respected. That role extends to the justice system existing in tribes across the country. As an advocate for the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act and the Legal Services Corporation, I remain committed to protection and justice for all vulnerable individuals.” For more information about the Congressional Justice Award, click here. ###
04.03.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after tentative framework for a deal with Iran was announced yesterday by the P5+1 and European Union in Switzerland. Following the announcement, President Barack Obama praised the framework, calling it a “historic understanding with Iran.” “The fact that President Obama believes that a deceptive regime, which is a state sponsor of terrorism, can be a trusted negotiating partner is both naïve and troubling,” said Cole. “In my opinion, the president is too concerned with claiming credit for what he believes will be a historic agreement. Certainly, it may be historic but not for the right reasons. America and our allies have everything to lose and nothing to gain by trusting Iran. “Common sense and past experience should make it obvious that Iran's objective is to develop the capability to produce a nuclear weapon at a moment's notice. Furthermore, it should be plainly evident that the United States, Israel and our Middle Eastern allies sit atop the list of potential targets of such a weapon. By conceding to these dangerous and dishonest actors, the president is jeopardizing the safety of our country and that of our friends. “In my opinion, the president has an obligation to submit any agreement of this magnitude to Congress for its consideration. In the days ahead, I will work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to assure that he does so. Through their elected representatives, the American people deserve to see a vigorous debate and to have the final say on a matter of this scope and gravity,” concluded Cole. ###
03.26.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 2, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act. The legislation passed today permanently replaces the Medicare Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) that often short-changes Medicare reimbursements for doctors. Further, the bill includes small reforms to address the broken structure of Medicare and provides a two-year extension for funding community health centers. “Rather than relying on another temporary and expensive ‘doc-fix’ solution, I am pleased that lawmakers voted to replace the SGR payment model with a system that will properly compensate physicians and allow them to offer the best possible care to their patients,” said Cole. “By moving toward a payment system that protects access to quality care and prevents patients from becoming uninsured or having to resort to Obamacare, this legislation moves us further toward a patient-centered system. I am especially encouraged that the bill includes funding for community health centers, which provide invaluable access to quality care in communities where it would otherwise be scarce. “Finally, in addition to solving the broken payment system, today’s vote reflects bipartisan commitment to reforming Medicare. Without immediate changes to the program, Medicare’s future and survival is uncertain. By including albeit small steps to change the structure of the program, there is hope that we can protect its existence for generations to come.” ###
03.25.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H. Con. Res. 27, to establish the federal government’s budget for fiscal year 2016. The House proposal recommended by Republicans would balance the budget in less than 10 years, cut spending by $5.5 trillion, provide funding to maintain a strong national defense, repeal Obamacare, reform both the tax code and entitlements—like Medicare and Medicaid—and present real solutions to grow the economy. “For the fifth consecutive year, I am pleased that House Republicans have passed a responsible budget that offers real solutions for changing the trajectory of our debt,” said Cole. “As it has in previous years, the House proposal actually achieves a balanced budget, unlike the president’s budget that raises taxes and still never balances. By making the necessary yet difficult decisions today, the House plan again reaffirms our commitment to protecting American prosperity and opportunity for future generations. “As I have said quite often since both chambers unveiled their budgets last week, it is important to realize that these blueprints, including the one passed today, represent the starting positions for negotiating something we can all agree on. Just as we worked out the differences in our initial starting position through committee mark-up last week and this week during floor consideration in our own chamber, finding the same common ground is still required in the days ahead, especially as we face reconciliation with the Senate’s opening position,” concluded Cole. To read a transcript and watch Congressman Cole’s remarks on the House floor during consideration of the rule for H. Con. Res. 27, click here. ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
03.24.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) and Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) have filed legislation to guarantee the long-term solvency of Social Security. The Social Security Commission Act of 2015 creates a bicameral and bipartisan commission that is designed to bring both parties and chambers of Congress together, along with the President, to ensure that Social Security is fully funded for decades to come. The commission created by the legislation is modelled on the 1983 Social Security Commission and would automatically produce an up or down vote in Congress. According to the Social Security and Medicare Boards of Trustees 2014 Annual Report, absent policy changes, Social Security’s combined trust funds will be exhausted in 2033. “Social Security is a promise made to the American people, it’s fundamental and essential. We need to protect and preserve Social Security for generations to come and that’s the singular aim of this legislation, to guarantee Social Security keeps working for the next 75 years,” said Congressman Delaney. “I am deeply concerned about the possibility of drastic cuts to benefits in the future, because the data in front of us is irrefutable. The Social Security Commission Act creates the bipartisan and bicameral process we need to guarantee that a healthy Social Security is waiting for our grandchildren. I am honored to work with Congressman Cole on this legislation.” “Throughout the entirety of their working life, every American contributes to Social Security and trusts in the promise of future benefits from the program later on in life. Unfortunately, Social Security is in grave danger,” said Congressman Cole. “Without immediate changes that modernize the current system, Social Security will not be able to pay the benefits that American workers have earned and have come to rely upon. Rather than risk breaking the promise made to generations who have paid or will pay into the system, I am pleased to reintroduce bipartisan legislation today with Congressman Delaney that will hopefully result in common sense solutions for saving Social Security for future generations of retirees.” The Delaney-Cole legislation would provide for the following: • A 13 member commission, the Commission on Long Term Social Security Solvency, with 12 members appointed by leadership from both parties in the House and Senate (three appointees from each party’s leader in each chamber). Two of the Congressional appointees must be non-elected experts. • The commission is chaired by the 13th appointee, named by the President. The President’s appointee means that the President’s party will appoint 7 members, the other party appointing six. • Within one year of their first meeting, the commission must report to Congress on the 75-year health of Social Security and provide recommendations for how to improve the program. • The commission’s report must have a minimum of 9 votes, guaranteeing bipartisan consensus. • The legislation based on the commission’s plan would then receive expedited consideration in Congress for an up or down vote. ### Contact: Will McDonald (202) 225-2721 (Delaney)Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165 (Cole)
03.20.2015	Washington, D.C. – The office of Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) is now accepting entries for the annual Congressional Art Competition. Each spring, the U.S. House of Representatives sponsors An Artistic Discovery, a nationwide competition for high school students interested in the arts and looking for an opportunity to showcase their creativity. The annual contest recognizes and encourages artistic talent of young constituents across the nation, including those living in Oklahoma’s Fourth Congressional District. The winner’s artwork is displayed for one year in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. In addition, the winning prize includes travel to Washington with a guest for a reception, workshop and award presentation, courtesy of Southwest Airlines. All entries are accepted at one of Congressman Cole’s district offices or the Ardmore Chamber of Commerce by 5 p.m. on April 24, 2015. Those locations are listed below: Norman Office 2424 Springer Drive, Suite 201 (405) 329-6500 Lawton Office 711 SW D Avenue, Suite 201 (580) 357-2131 Ada Office 100 East 13th Street, Suite 213 (580) 436-5475 Ardmore Chamber of Commerce 410 West Main (580) 223-7765 The official entry form, contest rules and submission checklist are available here. For other questions about the competition, please contact Elizabeth Norrie at (405) 329-6500. ###
03.17.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), a member of the House Committee on the Budget, released the following statement after Chairman Tom Price led the committee in releasing “A Balanced Budget for a Stronger America.” The blueprint for fiscal year 2016 would balance the budget in less than 10 years, cut spending by $5.5 trillion, repeal Obamacare, reform entitlements like Medicare and Medicaid and present real solutions to grow the economy. “In households across the United States, many families already understand that getting out of debt and staying out of debt requires a budget,” said Cole. “Like the countless families who recognize the importance of setting spending limits and living within their means, Republican members of the House Budget Committee today recommended that the federal government follow the same example. Under the responsible plan unveiled today, I am pleased that the budget actually balances, reins in spending, repeals the president’s unworkable healthcare law and reforms entitlement programs. “With more than $18 trillion in debt that continues to grow, the hard decisions cannot be left for another day, month or year—even another president or Congress. In order to guarantee the American dream for our children and grandchildren in the years and decades ahead, we must acknowledge our grave situation and set out a course for economic recovery. The Republican budget reflects that commitment to future generations. “It is important to note, however, a budget is only a plan. It is not the law. Entitlement reform, tax reform and spending restraints will require bipartisan and bicameral negotiation and compromise. And the president will hardly be an innocent bystander in all this. This budget is an important step – but only a first step – in an ongoing journey that will have many twists, turns and surprises along the way,” concluded Cole. To read the plan announced today, click here. ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
03.03.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu addressed a joint session of the United States Congress. “Despite the sobering nature of the remarks themselves, Prime Minister Netanyahu delivered an important message that all of Congress, indeed all of America, needed to hear,” said Cole. “At this critical juncture in history, the prime minister’s warnings should also be heeded by President Obama, who appears to be on a dangerous and reckless path in negotiations with Iran. “Even though the Administration believes that a deal with Iran is possible, I remain deeply skeptical that the country will abide by any sort of agreement reached. As Prime Minister Netanyahu conveyed today, Israel shares that same concern and distrust of Iran. A nuclear armed Iran is a threat to the safety of the entire west but also poses a direct threat to the very existence of Israel, as well as to the Sunni states of the Middle East. “While the president chose to politicize a visit from one of America’s closest friends and our greatest ally in the war on terror, the vast majority of Congress welcomed the dose of reality provided by Prime Minister Netanyahu. I am proud that the House showed support and demonstrated respect for our friends in Israel,” concluded Cole. ###
02.27.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after supporting legislation on the House floor to fund the Department of Homeland Security for seven days. “Tonight both chambers of Congress voted to responsibly fund the Department of Homeland Security for another week,” said Cole. “While I certainly would have preferred a longer term solution, I believe it is more important to prevent any lapse in funding from occurring, especially with mounting threats to our national security. In a world where our enemies are numerous and seem only to become more dangerous, it is unacceptable to cut off critical funds, even for a short time, that help protect the lives of Americans. The legislation passed today helps maintain our nation’s readiness and ability to combat our dangerous enemies by funding DHS. “Some have expressed concern about consideration of similar bills funding the president’s unconstitutional executive action announced in November. As we remember, the president’s plan was intended to provide legal status to millions of illegal immigrants. Since the president unveiled his plan before the American people, 26 states have taken action against the president’s overreach and are currently challenging the constitutionality of his executive action. Until the courts come to a decision, the president’s plan cannot move forward. “While I remain deeply opposed to the president’s overreach, I do believe it is important to allow the courts to decide the fate, rather than jeopardizing the safety and security of Americans. As the United States Congress awaits the decision of the courts, it would be well advised to continue responsibly funding the Department of Homeland Security,” concluded Cole. ###
02.24.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after President Barack Obama vetoed legislation sent by Congress to approve construction of the Keystone XL pipeline. “After more than six years of needless delays and a shameful refusal to make a decision either way, the president was finally forced to make a decision on Keystone,” said Cole. “Despite his prior promises to veto the valuable legislation passed with strong bipartisan, bicameral support in Congress, I had hoped that the president would change his mind and side with the vast majority of the American people who support this common sense project. Unfortunately, he chose to veto legislation that would approve construction of the Keystone XL pipeline and consequently create tens of thousands of jobs for hardworking Americans. “In addition to preventing the creation of American jobs, the president’s veto signals that he has turned his back on Canada—one of America’s best friends and a country that already allows the United States to run a pipeline across the length of its country to transport American oil from Alaska to the lower 48 states. It makes sense for Canada to be able to transport oil to America in the same manner. Not only is it cheaper, but studies have shown that pipeline transport is also more efficient and environmentally more responsible. “The president’s decision to side with radical environmental extremists shows just how out of touch he is with the country he was elected to lead. It is apparent that in his final two years as president, he is uninterested in leaving a legacy that benefits the working people of the United States. Opposing Keystone is economically, diplomatically and environmentally irresponsible. The president’s decision to veto this vital legislation willfully ignores the facts and defies common sense,” concluded Cole. ###
02.11.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed S.1, the Keystone XL Pipeline Approval Act. This Senate-passed legislation would force construction approval of the Keystone XL pipeline and remove the presidential permit requirement. In light of today’s passage in the House, the bill will be sent to the president’s desk for consideration. “At the start of the new Congress last month, the House immediately voted again on legislation to address the president’s inaction on Keystone and to release thousands of jobs to the American people,” said Cole. “More than six years since TransCanada’s application was first submitted and with studies showing no significant impact on the environment, it is high time for President Obama to approve construction of the northern route of the pipeline. “While the president has stated his intention to veto this bipartisan, bicameral legislation, I hope that he reconsiders and chooses the way of the American people, rather than catering to environmental extremists,” concluded Cole. ###
02.11.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the president submitted a request to Congress for authorization for the use of military force (AUMF) against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). “Considering that ISIL has already been responsible for killing Americans and attacking a number of our allies, there is no question this terrorist group poses an immediate threat to our homeland,” said Cole. “The president’s request for authorization of military force to combat this dangerous enemy is long overdue. As lawmakers consider his request, I am hopeful that we can provide clear guidance for the mission and fully authorize the executive branch and our military tasked with meeting the objective. “I continue to support a sustained military effort to destroy these terrorists, but I am concerned that the Administration will try to ‘nickel and dime’ this critical mission. The president must understand that destroying ISIL calls for unwavering, sustained use of overwhelming force. With such a dangerous enemy at hand, we cannot afford to hesitate or fail to consider all the possible military assets. “Because the president prematurely and unwisely withdrew troops from Iraq, ISIL’s mobilization was encouraged rather than thwarted. In order to secure the area once again, the Administration has now had to reintroduce combat units that arguably shouldn’t have left in the first place. In the meantime, the enemy has grown stronger and is much more difficult to defeat. “While I agree with the president’s objective to combat ISIL, I have never accepted that he has the authority to act without congressional authorization. I have argued for many months that he should consult Congress before taking action, rather than relying on previous authorizations under a different Administration for different missions, different enemies and clearly different purposes,” concluded Cole. ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
02.05.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement of support after the U.S House of Representatives passed H.R. 527, the Small Business Regulatory Flexibility Improvements Act. Along with instructing federal agencies to look at the economic impact of regulations on small businesses, it requires that agencies conduct reviews of current rules. The legislation also seeks to involve those employed by small businesses in consideration of new regulations through Small Business Advocacy Review panels. “Our country’s ability to prosper depends heavily on Americans who work for and own small businesses,” said Cole. “Unfortunately, those working on Main Street are often met with excessive regulatory and tax barriers that choke innovation and discourage job creation. The same regulations often discourage entrepreneurs from entering the marketplace at all, preventing future opportunities for hardworking Americans and stalling economic recovery. “The Small Business Regulatory Flexibility Improvements Act remembers the critical role small businesses play in creating job opportunities that support millions of families across the country. I am proud to support this legislation that raises the voices of those employed by small business by allowing them to be heard in the regulatory review and consideration process,” concluded Cole. According to the United States Small Business Administration, an estimated seven out of 10 new jobs in the economy are created by small businesses. In 2010, the U.S. Department of Commerce recorded 332,998 small businesses in Oklahoma that employed 673,373 people. ###
02.03.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after supporting legislation to repeal Obamacare. In addition to repeal, H.R. 596 calls on lawmakers to draft alternative solutions to replace the president’s unworkable healthcare law. “It should come as no surprise that the House again voted for repeal of the president’s unworkable, unfair and unaffordable healthcare law,” said Cole. “No Republicans voted for the law when it was inappropriately rammed through Congress, and it remains deeply unpopular with the American people. In addition to its inappropriate passage, the law hasn’t been enforced uniformly or implemented fairly. “While House Republicans yet again reiterated the views of the American people today by voting to repeal Obamacare, we also showed our commitment to finding alternative solutions to improve the nation’s healthcare system. Considering that the Supreme Court will hear a case that could very well rule the law unworkable, this is a dialogue worth having on both sides of the aisle sooner rather than later, and I am pleased to see the House leading that effort,” concluded Cole. To watch Congressman Cole’s remarks on the legislation during its consideration in the Rules Committee yesterday, click here. ###
02.02.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), a member of the House Committee on the Budget, released the following statement after the president’s fiscal year 2016 budget proposal was unveiled. “The president’s budget is not serious either politically or philosophically,” said Cole. “For the fifth straight year, the president’s wish list to Congress is clearly dead upon arrival and does not stand the slightest chance of becoming law. “Not only am I deeply concerned by the president’s recommended tax increases and irresponsible spending, but I am even more baffled that he failed to address several urgent items in his proposal. For example, he failed to recommend changes to the Social Security Disability Fund, which is set to go bankrupt on his watch. He also missed another opportunity to call for entitlement and tax reform. Perhaps most alarming, the president again offered a proposal that doesn’t balance in 5 years, 10 years or ever. “The contents of the president’s budget – in both what it includes and what it omits – should be of great concern to lawmakers who are serious about getting our fiscal house in order,” concluded Cole. For more information about the president’s FY 16 budget proposal, click here. ###
01.27.2015	Washington, D.C. – Last week, U.S. Representative Matt Cartwright re-introduced the bi-partisan Wage Grade Employee Parity Act with U.S. Representative Tom Cole (OK-4). The legislation would ensure that the percentage increase in rates of basic pay for Wage Grade, or hourly, employees is equivalent to the percentage increase received by General Schedule, or salaried, federal employees. Current law provides the President with the ability to give a Cost of Living Adjustment (COLA) increase to salaried federal employees. However, he does not have the legal authority to provide the same to hourly federal workers. If passed, this legislation would give the President the ability to provide the same pay increase to both hourly and salary federal employees. During the 113th Congress, language from the Wage Grade Employee Parity Act, providing hourly federal workers a 1% pay increase, was included in three separate spending bills that were signed into law. This legislation would affect nearly 2,000 hourly employees at Tobyhanna Army Depot, located in Pennsylvania’s 17th District, as well as employees at the Social Security Administration office, and the Wilkes-Barre VA Medical Center. “If we are to reduce income inequality in this country, the federal government must lead by example. By giving our blue collar workers the same raises as our white collar workers every year, we are valuing the hard work of all civilians serving their country,” said Rep. Cartwright. Rep. Cartwright continued, “The importance of recognizing the critical role civilian employees play cannot be underestimated. Federal employees have been underappreciated and undervalued for far too long. While I wish we could do more, an equitable cost of living increase recognizes their value while also recognizing the tight budget constraints we are under and creates parity with salaried federal workers. For this reason, I am proud to re-introduce this legislation, along with Representative Cole, which aims to provide parity within the federal workforce.” There are over 174,000 hourly employees who work for the Department of Defense (DOD) including nearly 2,000 hourly employees at Tobyhanna Army Depot. Other agencies with significant numbers include the Department of Veterans’ Affairs and the U.S. Bureau of Prisons. “I am pleased to join again with Congressman Cartwright and several colleagues to introduce the Wage Grade Employee Parity Act,” said Rep. Cole. “Regardless of the pay system, this bipartisan legislation ensures that the same cost of living adjustments (COLA) will be extended to all federal employees. This not only provides COLA parity within the federal workforce, but it helps retain key personnel who provide invaluable support across major areas of our government, including the Department of Defense.” ### Link to original releaseContact: Shane Seaver (202) 225-5546 (Cartwright)Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165 (Cole)
01.20.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after President Barack Obama delivered his annual State of the Union address during a joint session of Congress. “Tonight’s presidential address represents another missed opportunity for the president to unite and lead the country,” said Cole. “Instead of focusing on areas where bipartisan agreement is possible, his proposals will further divide us and shake the confidence of hardworking Americans who need to trust that their government can function—even when it is divided. “Unfortunately, few of the president’s proposals deal with the long-term challenges that our country faces. Although our current entitlement programs are on an unsustainable trajectory, the president continues to tout phantom economic recovery rather than proposing ideas to deal with our long-term deficit and entitlement challenges. “While there has been some progress bringing down the deficit since Republicans took control of the House, our nation is still very much in debt and still overspending. This is not a problem that can be wished away or ignored, and it is most certainly not solved through the introduction of new programs—like free community college tuition—that require even more taxpayer dollars. It serves as a reminder that we need a budget that balances. Just as the battle for a balanced budget isn’t over, neither is the need for reforms to programs like the Social Security Disability Fund, which is projected to go bankrupt under this administration. “The president’s latest tax proposal would force unfair redistribution of wealth, rather than creation of worthwhile employment opportunities. In any Congress, successfully enacting such tax policies is unlikely, but that is even truer in this Congress. “Our nation’s economic situation impacts our actual and perceived strength around the world. Today, there are mounting threats to our national security that require immediate and decisive leadership. One of the more obvious includes the mobilization against our deadly enemy, the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). For months now, we have monitored the situation and been shocked by their acts of terror, yet the president has still failed to submit a request to Congress for use of force against the dangerous foe. While the president ‘talks a good game’ about ISIL, he is pursuing a scattered, uncoordinated approach that is unlikely to destroy ISIL or win the domestic, bipartisan support needed to wage a long, hard campaign. “Even in divided government, there are opportunities for bipartisan cooperation. Sadly, it doesn’t appear that the president intends to pursue promising areas of agreement—like trade, infrastructure or tax reform. Instead, with the nation’s most pressing problems occurring on his watch, the president’s vision for the future fails to prioritize or offer real solutions to those challenges. “This State of the Union is a disappointing start to the president’s final two years in office. However, I pledge to continue to try and find areas of common ground where we can work together to move America forward,” concluded Cole. ###
01.14.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after his committee assignments for the 114th Congress were finalized. Cole will remain on three committees in the House, including the Budget Committee, Appropriations Committee and Rules Committee. As established in the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 and present in the official rules of the House, the Budget Committee must have three members of the majority party and two from the minority also serve on the Appropriations Committee. For the third consecutive Congress, Cole was reappointed to the Budget Committee as one of these three Republican members, and he will now be considered the Senior Appropriator on the panel. On the Appropriations Committee, Cole will serve as the newly-appointed chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies; he previously served as chairman of the Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch. He will also continue to serve on the Subcommittee on Defense and Subcommittee on Interior. “Last week’s swearing in marked the beginning of a historic Republican majority in Congress that was decisively elected by the American people,” said Cole. “I am honored to continue representing the Fourth District of Oklahoma, and I am optimistic that we can find real solutions that the nation desperately needs. I look forward to the challenge of leading part of that effort both in my subcommittee chairmanship and other subcommittee and committee assignments.” In his seventh term representing the Fourth District of Oklahoma, Congressman Cole also announced that his new office location for Washington, D.C. will be 2467 Rayburn House Office Building. His Oklahoma offices in Norman, Ada and Lawton will remain the same. For detailed contact information on each office, click here. For Congressman Cole’s updated biography and official photo, click here. ###
01.14.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 240, the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2015. The legislation provides $39.7 billion in discretionary funding that covers immediate and anticipated needs for border security and enforcement, cybersecurity, disaster relief and emergency preparedness, the Coast Guard, the Transportation Security Administration and the Secret Service. “I am pleased that the House voted to fund the Department of Homeland Security through the end of the fiscal year,” said Cole. “Especially in light of mounting threats at home and abroad, this legislation shows that lawmakers are committed to providing the resources and personnel for both our nation’s security and law enforcement needs. Remembering the devastating May 2013 tornadoes in the Fourth District and other areas across the state of Oklahoma, I am also pleased to see adequate funding allotted to disaster relief and emergency preparedness. ” Final passage of the bill included five amendments that addressed the president’s unconstitutional plan announced in November that would grant executive amnesty to approximately 5 million illegal immigrants. Inclusion of these amendments blocks funding in the bill from being used for the president’s unilateral immigration action, denies funds for DACA applications and requires the greatest scrutiny and deportation priority to illegal immigrants guilty of sex crimes or domestic violence. The bill also includes language that condemns the Administration’s unilateral action that is slanted in favor of illegal immigrants and expresses the need for policy that helps American and legal workers. “In addition to fulfilling our obligation to the American people by responsibly funding the government, the DHS appropriations bill passed in the House today prevents the president from using funds for his unconstitutional plan to grant executive amnesty to millions of illegal immigrants. Last November, when he announced this plan, the president showed that he is not interested in working with lawmakers to find real reforms for our broken immigration system. Instead, he has chosen to act outside of the boundaries of his powers. I hope he reconsiders his non-strategy in the future and decides to work with Congress in solving issues with our immigration system. In the meantime, inclusion of these amendments keeps the president accountable to powers of the executive branch and prevents his overreach from becoming reality. “While the House has acted responsibly today, our colleagues in the upper chamber must also demonstrate the same commitment to the American people and immediately vote on similar legislation to responsibly fund the government and keep the president accountable. I hope that lawmakers in the Senate keep the promise to the voters who elected them,” concluded Cole. ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
01.09.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 3, the Keystone XL Pipeline Act. Passage of this legislation marks the 10th time that the House has voted to remove the presidential permit requirement that has prevented TransCanada from starting construction of the northern route of the pipeline. Since TransCanada submitted its application six years ago, President Barack Obama has refused to make a decision one way or another. This legislation would force approval and remove the permit requirement, thus creating new jobs (at no cost to taxpayers) and promoting a positive business relationship with our friends in Canada that would lessen America’s dangerous dependence on foreign oil. “I am pleased that the House has again demonstrated its commitment to American jobs and workers by addressing the president’s inaction on Keystone,” said Cole. “For more than six years, TransCanada has waited for the green light from President Obama in order to begin construction on the northern route of the Keystone pipeline. After environmental studies have shown no significant impact on the environment, and after having received support from a majority of House and Senate Members, it’s long past time to build the pipeline and release the jobs being held up by the Administration. “The president’s stated intention to veto Keystone is both ill-founded after six years of hiding behind the Senate on the issue and hypocritical after he previously celebrated the completion of the southern route last year in Cushing, Oklahoma. Unfortunately, the president has decided to cater to environmental extremists, rather than the majority of Americans” concluded Cole. To watch Congressman Cole’s discussion in the House Rules Committee with the bill’s lead sponsor Congressman Kevin Cramer (ND-At Large), click here. For more information about the legislation passed today, including background on Keystone XL and its value to the American economy, click here. ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
01.08.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 30, the Save American Workers Act. The legislation repeals the portion in Obamacare that defines 30 hours per week as full-time for employees and replaces it with the traditional American workweek of 40 hours. Cole is an original co-sponsor of the legislation. “Ever since Obamacare was rammed through the Democrat-led Congress in 2010, implementation of the legislation has proven unworkable, unfair and unaffordable for the American people,” said Cole. “One such unaffordable provision includes defining full-time employment as 30 hours per week, rather than the traditional American workweek of 40 hours. This 30-hour definition requires employers to cover previously-unbudgeted insurance costs or pay a penalty. Not only does it hurt employers faced with unexpected insurance costs, but it prevents them from creating new jobs and threatens them from maintaining their current workforce. “I am pleased that during the first week of the new Republican-led Congress that we are immediately acting to address this failure in the president’s unworkable healthcare law and restoring the traditional 40-hour workweek,” concluded Cole. ###
12.17.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, issued the following statement after President Barack Obama announced steps to “normalize relations” between the United States and Cuba. This policy change comes after Alan Gross, an American contractor who was held captive in Cuba for five years, was released today. In light of this prisoner exchange, the Administration announced that steps ahead will include efforts to re-establish diplomatic relations and open commerce by lifting sanctions. “I am very disappointed that the president believes he can reason with a nation ruled by a corrupt dictator,” said Cole. “Time doesn’t change the past or the intentions of the Castro regime, which is set in its Communist ways and now further emboldened to continue mistreating its own people. Unless and until that nation shows promise of embracing democratic ideals and Communism is overthrown, it is dangerous and foolish to place trust in a country that has been designated by the State Department as a sponsor of terrorism. “Certainly, we always celebrate the safe return of one of our own. Especially before the holidays, I can only imagine the relief felt by the family of Alan Gross, who was held captive in Cuba for five years. Unfortunately, the president has once again negotiated with known enemies of America and set a dangerous precedent in the process.” ###
12.11.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 83, the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2015. Using the topline number and terms set in the Ryan-Murray budget agreement, the omnibus legislation fully funds the government at $1.013 trillion and prevents another government shutdown. This omnibus spending bill includes full funding for 11 of the 12 regular appropriations bills through the end of the fiscal year. The Homeland Security appropriations bill is funded under a temporary continuing resolution until February 27, 2015, to allow the incoming Republican majority of Congress to address the president’s executive overreach and prevent his plan of granting executive amnesty to illegal immigrants before that plan is implemented. “Today’s vote is the result of a bipartisan, bicameral negotiation,” said Cole. “While it has been a tough negotiation, the omnibus reflects common sense and conservative priorities. It also gives the incoming Republican majority the opportunity to address President Obama’s executive overreach related to immigration. Most importantly, passage of the omnibus prevents another government shutdown that would put partisan differences ahead of the best interests of the American people. “Especially after the IRS scandal that revealed unfair targeting of conservative groups, I am pleased that the omnibus cuts funds directed there. Since 2010, the IRS budget has been reduced by more than $1.2 billion, and this legislation cuts $345 million. In the same vein, this legislation decreases EPA funding for the fifth consecutive year, bringing staffing to its lowest level since 1989. “In addition to maintaining historic pro-life provisions, the omnibus also requires Obamacare plans to disclose whether or not abortion services are provided. “Along with necessary cuts to various areas of government, the omnibus also redirected savings to fund important programs. I am especially pleased that it includes funds for the Gabriella Miller Kids First Research Act, which I co-authored with my colleague Congressman Gregg Harper and that was signed into law by President Barack Obama earlier this year. Funded at $12.6 million in the omnibus, this money previously spent on political party conventions will instead go toward valuable pediatric disease research. “After passage of the National Defense Authorization Act last week, which authorized funding for our military, I am pleased that the funding carried over in the legislation passed today. Of great importance to the Fourth District of Oklahoma, the omnibus prevents the Administration’s recommended deactivation of seven AWACS stationed at Tinker Air Force Base—a move that would significantly impact the readiness and ability of our Armed Forces to combat current and future conflicts. It also addresses critical readiness gaps for aircraft depot maintenance caused by sequestration and repeated resource cuts by diverting funds from lower priority items. “The omnibus also addresses the need to maintain our national security by dealing with very real threats, including funds to help with the Ebola epidemic in West Africa and combat the growing terrorist threat posed by ISIL in the Middle East. “While this agreement isn’t perfect, I do believe this is best solution before we are joined by a Republican-led Congress in January. It funds the most important areas of government through 11 regular appropriations bills, but it also provides an opportunity for Republicans to address the president’s executive overreach before his plan to provide legal status to thousands of illegal immigrants is implemented,” concluded Cole. To watch Congressman Cole’s remarks during the Rules Committee hearing on Wednesday evening, click here. To watch Congressman Cole’s opening remarks while managing the rule on the legislation, click here. For detailed information about items contained in the legislation, click here. ###
12.04.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 3979, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2015. This legislation is the negotiated agreement between the House Armed Services Committee and Senate Armed Services Committee, reconciling two separate pieces of legislation passed in May in both chambers. “Today, the House acted with strong bipartisanship to pass vital legislation that authorizes funds for our military personnel, readiness and operations,” said Cole. “Without question, maintaining the strength of our military deserves our utmost attention and support, and the negotiated NDAA agreement passed today demonstrates our joint commitment to giving our military the resources they need both at home and abroad. “The NDAA further addresses critical readiness gaps associated with an increase of $666.2 million for aircraft depot maintenance caused by sequestration and repeated resource cuts. The increase was achieved by diverting funds from lower priority items. “But very important to Tinker Air Force Base in the Fourth District, I am pleased that the legislation includes funding for several vital aviation programs including AWACS, C-130 and A-10. Earlier this year, the Administration recommended the deactivation of seven AWACS stationed at Tinker. Such reductions to the size and capability of the AWACS fleet would significantly impact our Armed Forces in future conflict. “I was disappointed that a provision I had included in the House version of the bill was not carried in the final bill that would have prevented working capital fund (WCF) employees from any future furloughs. I remain concerned about the negative effect furloughs of WCF employees have on military employees when monies and workload are available. Such a practice only delays delivery times of aircraft and raises rates, costing the taxpayer and reducing military readiness. “With budget constraints in place, I hope that the Department of Defense will manage future budgets carefully and weigh all competing variables when making readiness and workforce decisions going forward. However, I remain concerned that if resource trends are not reversed soon, any tentative gains in these accounts will be diminished or eliminated. “As we face mounting threats to our national security in the months and years ahead, I hope that we continue to work together to authorize funding to combat our enemies by providing adequate resources to our dedicated military personnel,” concluded Cole. ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
11.24.2014	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after President Barack Obama announced the resignation of Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel. “During his time in military combat, as a U.S. Senator and most recently as Secretary of Defense, Chuck Hagel has served our nation with distinction and honor,” said Cole. “As Secretary of Defense, serving at the Pentagon for nearly two years, he faced many challenges, including the implementation of deep cuts to our military in the midst of mounting crises overseas. "While it is unclear what prompted Secretary Hagel’s resignation today, I hope that the Administration carefully considers its strategy for confronting our enemies. Moreover, I urge the Administration to work with Congress to resolve the issue of the so called 'sequester' that is weakening our military and making the job of Secretary of Defense virtually impossible for even a person as dedicated and talented as Secretary Hagel to successfully perform. Without strong resolve and real leadership against terrorist groups, our ability to combat dangerous enemies like ISIL will only weaken.” ###
11.20.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after President Barack Obama addressed the nation, announcing that he will grant executive amnesty to approximately 5 million illegal immigrants. “I am amazed that the president insists on going ahead with action that he has said, on multiple occasions, he would not and could not constitutionally take,” said Cole. “I am deeply disappointed that the president refuses to work with lawmakers who represent the beliefs of the American people. Without question, decisions on such controversial issues as immigration should be carried out by working together in a bipartisan manner, including the president seeking congressional oversight and approval. Instead, the president is unfortunately taking the go-it-alone approach and complicating the future of real immigration reform in the process. “The president should always seek to unite, rather than divide the American people. Especially with such a highly charged issue, the president is yet again missing the opportunity to work with lawmakers and show the country that government can function and find solutions to the challenges facing our country. By choosing not to work with Congress to actually solve the issue, the president has chosen to pit lawmakers and the Americans they represent against each other by taking this rash action. “In the days and months ahead, I hope that lawmakers on both sides of the aisle will engage in discussion on the immigration issue, restore order to the legislative process and rein in White House overreach. When dealing with such complex and controversial issues, Americans should be able to rest assured that all branches of government are working together,” concluded Cole. ###
11.20.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after he was appointed to serve as Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies. “I am honored to be appointed as Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Education,” said Cole. “This subcommittee has vast jurisdiction, causing the decisions made there to be especially complex and at times even controversial. I am truly honored by the amount of trust that Chairman Rogers and the Republican Steering Committee have placed in me to help guide the decision-making process and find the best use of hardworking taxpayer dollars. As we enter the 114th Congress, I look forward to working with the talented committee staff, beginning the process of holding hearings and working with my colleagues to craft legislation that reflects the best interests of the American people.” “With his sharp budgetary mind and fierce commitment to returning stability and regularity to the federal budget process, Tom Cole has long been an asset to the Committee. As he steps into his new role as Chairman of the Labor, Health, and Education Subcommittee, I know Tom will make the tough decisions needed to save taxpayer money, find efficiencies within the government, and fund these important programs responsibly," said Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers. This subcommittee oversees funding for the Department of Education, Department of Health and Human Services and Department of Labor. Jurisdiction of the subcommittee also covers related agencies, including the Medicaid and CHIP Payment and Access Commission, Medicare Payment Advisory Commission and Social Security Administration. For a full description of the subcommittee’s jurisdiction, click here. ###
11.20.2014	Washington, D.C. – House Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers today announced that the Republican Steering Committee has approved the 12 Appropriations Subcommittee Chairs (or “Cardinals”) for the 114th Congress. “Over the last four years, the Appropriations Committee has taken the lead in getting our budgets under control – cutting $165 billion in federal discretionary spending, one of the largest reductions in history. Even further, Appropriations bills that have been signed into law make a host of good-government changes to the way our federal agencies operate – reining in waste, abuse, and unnecessary bureaucratic over-regulation that harms our economy. “The 12 Appropriations Subcommittee Chairmen are essential to this success. They lead the way in overseeing our federal agencies, and guide spending decisions to make the most responsible and effective use of American tax dollars. Over the next two years, we will have some big challenges and a full plate of ‘to-dos’ ahead of us as we continue to fight for stability, continuity, and responsibility in the federal budget process. These excellent Subcommittee Cardinals will be a tremendous benefit to our efforts. I congratulate them and look forward to working with them in the 114th Congress,” Chairman Rogers said. The subcommittee Chairs are as follows: Subcommittee on Agriculture and Rural Development – Chairman Robert Aderholt Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, and Science – Chairman John Culberson Subcommittee on Defense – Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development – Chairman Mike Simpson Subcommittee on Financial Services – Chairman Ander Crenshaw Subcommittee on Homeland Security – Chairman John Carter Subcommittee on the Interior, Environment – Chairman Ken CalvertSubcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education – Chairman Tom Cole Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch – Chairman Tom Graves Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs – Chairman Charles Dent Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations – Chairwoman Kay Granger Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development – Chairman Mario Diaz-Balart ### Link to original releaseContact: Jennifer Hing (202) 225-2771 (Appropriations)Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165 (Cole)
11.14.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 5682, To Approve the Keystone XL Pipeline. “I am pleased that the House once again acted where the president will not,” said Cole. “After more than six years since Keystone first submitted its permit approval application, it’s high time for the Administration to make a decision either way. Rather than needlessly bury the request in unnecessary environmental studies and inaction, the president should acknowledge the value of Keystone to our economy. In addition to lessening the country's dependence on foreign oil, the American people are ready and waiting to feel the benefit of Keystone through the thousands of jobs the construction project will create.” ###
11.12.2014	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after it was announced that Dr. Suzan Harjo will receive the Presidential Medal of Freedom later this month. A native of Oklahoma, Harjo is a member of the Cheyenne and Arapaho tribes and has long advocated for Native Americans, including as the Executive Director of the National Congress of American Indians and currently as the President of the Morning Star Institute. “I am very pleased to hear that Dr. Suzan Harjo will be honored with the Presidential Medal of Freedom,” said Cole. “In the tradition of Wilma Mankiller, who received this same honor, Dr. Harjo has been a lifelong advocate for Native American rights and tribal sovereignty. As an author, poet, scholar and activist, she has tirelessly championed causes associated with Native Americans and has been instrumental in the passage of key legislation. This recognition of her decades of work and commitment brings honor not only to Dr. Harjo, but to her native state of Oklahoma as well.” ###
09.30.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after Boeing announced the planned transfer of approximately 900 engineering and defense-related jobs to its Oklahoma City facility near Tinker Air Force Base. These jobs are related to the company’s restructuring of its Boeing Defense, Space & Security Unit and will include work on the KC-46A Tanker. “I am pleased that Boeing recognizes the value and benefit of bringing jobs to Oklahoma,” said Cole. “The transfer of these jobs speaks strongly to our quality workforce and business environment, but it is also a credit to the state’s leadership capability and potential in the defense industry.” ###
09.27.2014	Norman, OK – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement in response to the tragic incident at Vaughan Foods in Moore, resulting in the brutal murder of one woman and serious stabbing injuries to another. "My thoughts and prayers are with the victims of this brutal crime as well as their families, friends and co-workers," said Cole. "I can only imagine the pain and sorrow which they are experiencing in the wake of this atrocity. I am grateful for the courage displayed by Vaughan Foods Chief Operating Officer and Reserve Deputy Sheriff Mark Vaughan who acted quickly and decisively to prevent the further loss of life. He is a true hero. "I urge all citizens to cooperate with law enforcement officials as they work to determine exactly what happened and bring the perpetrator of this ghastly crime to justice. I am confident they will keep the public fully and appropriately informed as their investigation proceeds. Until they make their findings public, I urge all parties to avoid speculation about the nature and cause of this dreadful event." ###
09.23.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement in response to President Barack Obama’s ordering of air strikes to combat the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). “As I’ve said earlier, ISIL represents a clear and present danger to the safety and security of the United States,” said Cole. “If this terrorist organization continues to function, we risk the threat of the establishment of a terrorist state in the region. Neither the United States nor our Allies in the region can tolerate that becoming a reality. “I am pleased that the president has led and shown the world American strength, resolve and determination to destroy ISIL by targeting its strongholds in the region through air strikes. He has done so prudently by encouraging the participation and building of a coalition with Arab allies, who are also in danger if ISIL is not destroyed. “Just as the president has built a coalition abroad, I hope that he will work to build a similar coalition with lawmakers in both chambers of Congress. As I said last week, the amendment that passed to authorize training and weapons of the Free Syrian Army does not authorize force in Syria. Constitutionally, I believe that it is most appropriate and better for the president and the nation if Congress authorizes force. I hope Congress will debate and vote on this as early as possible, allowing our own citizens and the rest of the world to see a united country.” ###
09.17.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.J. Res. 124, Continuing Appropriations Resolution for 2015. This legislation removes the threat of a government shutdown by providing funding through December 11, 2014; it also includes an amendment that approves the president’s request for authorization to combat the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). “I am pleased that the House acted responsibly today by passing a continuing resolution that funds the government through December 11 and removes the threat of another government shutdown,” said Cole. “In wake of the rise of ISIL and in response to the president’s address to the nation last week, I am encouraged that lawmakers worked in a bipartisan manner to provide the authority he requested to fight ISIL. While I don’t think it’s nearly sufficient for destroying this dangerous enemy, I believe that it’s important for Congress to act in a bipartisan fashion to confront a terrorist organization that poses a clear and present danger to the United States. I look forward to seeing the same quick and thoughtful action displayed by the Senate.” To watch Congressman Cole’s remarks on the House Floor while managing the rule for H.J. Res. 124, click here. For more information about the legislation passed today, click here. ###
09.11.2014	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Senator Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.) led the Oklahoma congressional delegation Wednesday in sending a letter to U.S. Department of Interior Sec. Sally Jewell to urge the Department’s Office of Surface Mining, Reclamation and Enforcement (OSM) to discontinue its attempt to resolve programmatic issues with the Oklahoma Department of Mines with "secrecy agreements.” The letter urges Sec. Jewell to open an inquiry into OSM’s practices of secret negotiations as an attempt to avoid public participation in issue-resolution discussions. The letter was signed by Sen. Tom Coburn (R-Okla), Reps. Jim Bridenstine (R-OK-1), Markwayne Mullin (R-OK-2), Frank Lucas (R-OK-3), Tom Cole (R-OK-4), and James Lankford (R-OK-5). The Members wrote, “It has come to our attention that the Department’s Office of Surface Mining, Reclamation and Enforcement recently demanded that the Oklahoma Department of Mines (ODM) enter into a “secrecy agreement” in order to discuss resolutions of an issue that has arisen with its surface mining program, over which it has primacy.” For decades, Oklahoma has been working with OSM to resolve a variety of programmatic issues. The Department of Interior has clear, well established procedures that follow the policies and regulations under the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act. The Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act (SMRCA) of 1977 provides that once a state develops laws, regulations and programs that are as effective as Federal SMCRA, the Secretary of Interior may grant “primacy” to that state. Oklahoma achieved primacy in 1983, and thus assumed exclusive jurisdiction over surface coal mining with limited oversight by OSM. “The essence of OSM’s mission in a primacy state is to work with the state to resolve programmatic issues. For OSM to suggest that it will only do its job under the condition of secrecy is completely improper, as well as unproductive. Conducting government business in secret erodes public confidence, and in this case it is a blatant attempt to avoid public participation in an official decision. This proposal is also at odds with the President’s transparency agenda and claim that his Administration is ‘the most transparent administration in history.’” “We urge you to open an inquiry into the practices of OSM to engage in secret negotiations as a means of avoiding public participation in its discussions, particularly with states that have primacy over their federal programs. In the interim, we urge you to instruct the Director of OSM to immediately abandon this effort in Oklahoma.” You can view the whole text of the letter by clicking here. ### Contact: Donelle Harder, Jacob Heisten (202) 225-5721 (Inhofe)Link to original release
09.10.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after President Barack Obama addressed the nation about his plan for addressing the growing threat of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). The Sunni Islamist terrorist organization poses a threat far beyond the region in which it currently operates in Iraq and Syria, ultimately seeking to claim and use territory for building an Islamic caliphate. “Like most Americans, I have no doubt that ISIL represents a clear and present danger to the United States and our friends and allies,” said Cole. “Certainly, I will vote to give the president any authority and resources he needs to confront this urgent national security risk. However, the president must be certain and decisive in his leadership. “While the president claims the authority to take this action without further approval from Congress, there is little doubt that a unified strategy involving both the legislative and executive branches of our government would be a far preferable approach. The president would be well advised to seek Congressional authorization for these actions as well as for the resources necessary to carry them out. I have no doubt that such authorization would be overwhelmingly supported by both houses of Congress and on both sides of the aisle. Americans, our friends and our enemies need to see the president and Congress united in their determination to destroy this very dangerous foe. “In the days ahead, I am certain that Congress will work with the president in a bipartisan manner to preserve our safety, security and freedom. But the president must remember that success in war requires decisive executive leadership. “At home and abroad, there should be no doubt that the United States is engaged and committed to ISIL’s destruction. Until that task is completed, the president should not rule out any options or tactics for achieving this objective. Instead, acting with the support of Congress, he should keep the full array of military tools at his disposal. This would strengthen his support at home, reassure our friends abroad and clearly warn our enemies that they face a united America. Unless the president works with Congress to marshal the full strength of the nation, America will find itself fighting a deadly enemy with one arm tied behind its back,” concluded Cole. ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
08.28.2014	Washington, D.C. — Today the Oklahoma delegation criticized the Obama Administration for failing to approve a one-year extension of Oklahoma’s Elementary and Secondary Education (ESEA) Flexibility: "The Obama Administration doesn't like when Oklahomans buck big government regulations, and today the Administration responded by penalizing our children with failing to grant the one-year extension of the ESEA flexibility," said Sen. Jim Inhofe. "Oklahomans want education reform that sets standards created and certified by Oklahoma's institutions, community leaders, and parents. Instead of supporting these values, the Obama Administration has chosen to make it more expensive and difficult to achieve the state's education goals that, once met, will exceed the requirements set by the U.S. Department of Education. As seen with ObamaCare taxes or the Endangered Species Act rulings, today's decision continues the trend of this Administration punishing Oklahoma for making decisions that represent the goals and interests of its constituents." “Greater state and local control over education funding is vital to the success of Oklahoma's students,” said Sen. Tom Coburn. “The experiment in federal micro-management of our nation's schools has proven to be a failure. This is what makes the Secretary's decision to revoke Oklahoma's ESEA flexibility so disappointing. As Oklahoma takes concrete steps to ensure our students are prepared for their future careers, the Department should give our schools the flexibility they need to succeed.” “The revocation of Oklahoma’s NCLB waiver—just as students begin a new school year—demonstrates this Administration’s unwillingness to allow states the time to establish state-specific, high academic standards,” said Rep. James Lankford. “The Administration granted an education funding waiver if Oklahoma would accept Common Core or if our state would establish college-ready standards. In May, our state chose to reject the Common Core standards and began writing our own. Because of that decision, the Administration has chosen to revoke what little flexibility and clarity Oklahoma educators were allowed by the federal government to help our students and teachers succeed amid a one-size-fits-all federal approach to education policy. The actions of the Administration today increase bureaucracy and decrease time to focus on academic standards. “This is a glaring example of why the federal government should not dictate local education policy. In July of last year, the U.S. House passed an Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) reauthorization to protect local schools from new federal red tape and to provide school districts the flexibility to identify, recruit and retain the best teachers possible. Centralized, federally mandated curricula, inside-the-Beltway education funding priorities and impossible federal standards are not the answers to improve education in our nation.” “Our state stood firm against further federal intrusion into the education of our children by rejecting the Common Core curriculum and determining that local educational leaders could best develop the appropriate curriculum for Oklahoma students,” said Rep. Jim Bridenstine. “Instead of applauding this constitutional decision and leadership, the Obama Administration decided today to reject the requested one year extension of flexibility previously granted to Oklahoma under ESEA. This politically motivated decision is the perfect example of how the unconstitutional federalization of education has effectively taken away the power reserved for the states and the people by our founders. It's time to abolish the federal Department of Education and return power to the states consistent with the 10th Amendment.” “I'm very frustrated by this decision not just as an Oklahoma Representative but also as a parent with children in public school,” said Rep. Markwayne Mullin. “Like many Oklahoma families, my family depends on public education, and this irresponsible action promises to weaken our state's ability to provide our youth with the education they need to be successful.” "Oklahoma's educators deserve maximum flexibility in order to provide our students with the tools to succeed,” said Rep. Frank Lucas. “Today's decision reflects just how out of touch the Obama Administration is when it comes to the needs of Oklahoma's students, and I urge the President to reconsider extending this critical education measure." "Although the waiver was not granted, I hope that the Department of Education works with the state to ensure a smooth transition,” said Rep. Tom Cole. “Changing the standards for a school year that has already begun is untenable and will not only be rushed but will likely be difficult to implement. I am disappointed that the Administration would cause such an unfair strain on the system in Oklahoma." On Aug. 25, the Oklahoma Delegation sent a letter to the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Education Arne Duncan requesting the agency to consider a one-year extension of Oklahoma’s Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) Flexibility. The extension would allow for Oklahoma to continue developing elementary and secondary education standards in conjunction with institutions of higher education in order to meet and exceed the U.S. Department of Education’s requirements. The Delegation wrote, “On behalf of the State, we request that Oklahoma be afforded this one-year extension of the ESEA Flexibility in order to allow state leaders and educators the opportunity to focus on the development and implementation of Oklahoma college- and career- ready standards, as well as other State education reforms necessary to continue supporting the Principles of ESEA Flexibility.” You can read the full text of the letter by clicking here. ### Contact: Donelle Harder (202) 224-4721 (Inhofe) Elaine Joseph (202) 224-5754 (Coburn) Kelly Ferguson (405) 234-9900 (Lankford) Sheryl Kaufman (202) 225-2211 (Bridenstine) Josh Miller (202) 225-2701 (Mullin) Andrew Witmer (202) 225-5599 (Lucas)Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165 (Cole)
08.04.2014	Norman, OK – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after learning that Fort Sill Military Base is expected to discontinue housing unaccompanied illegal minors by Friday, August 8. In response to the surge of these unaccompanied minors at the southern borders coming from Central America, the Administration had ordered the use of three military facilities. According to an announcement made today by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), the Administration plans to discontinue use of these surge emergency shelters. “I am very pleased by today’s announcement that HHS will discontinue using military facilities for housing unaccompanied illegal minors,” said Cole. “I am grateful to HHS Secretary Sylvia Burwell for respecting the sense of Congress, recognizing that military bases are not the right place to house these minors and working quickly to move them elsewhere. “Out of serious concern for our service members for which these facilities are designed and intended, I have always been opposed to the Administration’s emergency plan of using our military facilities for managing the surge of illegal minors. While it is encouraging that HHS is moving these unaccompanied illegal minors off the bases, the problem that caused the surge must still be addressed, starting with enforcement of current immigration law and plugging the loophole in the 2008 sex trafficking law which the Administration claims forces it to go through a lengthy litigation process before returning unaccompanied illegal Central American minors to their country of origin. The House passed legislation to do that just last week. The Administration would be wise to embrace at least this portion of the legislation in order to address the crisis at the border.” ###
08.01.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 5230, Making Supplemental Appropriations FY 2014, to addresses the president’s emergency request for dealing with the border crisis. In response to the president’s $3.7 billion request, the House-passed bill provides $659 million to meet immediate border security and humanitarian needs through the end of the year. Along with sending National Guard assistance to the southern border and improving enforcement resources for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), the supplemental amends a 2008 law that requires all minors entering the country illegally from Central America be treated the same as Mexican minors, who are sent back immediately. The bill speeds up deportation proceedings by adding temporary immigration judges to hear cases and prevent backlog while working with the countries from which the individuals migrated to return them safely home. It also includes language that prevents further expansion or funding for the Deferred Action Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. “Rather than throw money at a problem that the president’s failed policy created, the House today voted for a measure that covers immediate border security and humanitarian needs until the end of this year,” said Cole. “With the limited funding, the bill makes reforms that help change the incentive of those attempting to stay in America illegally by speeding up the process for returning them to their countries of origin. I am pleased that the supplemental actually addresses the situation at our borders and helps reverse the surge of thousands of illegal minors.” The legislation also includes language recommended by Cole that addresses the use of military facilities for housing illegal minors. It specifically states that military installations should not be used for housing unauthorized aliens. It outlines conditions the Department of Defense and Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) should meet such as providing written and advance notice to Congress and the public in the Federal Register about housing UAC’s at military facilities. In addition, the final bill includes an amendment introduced by Congressman Mike Rogers (AL-03) that prohibits use of military facilities for UAC housing should it “displace members of the Armed Forces or interfere with the activities of the Armed Forces.” “I am very encouraged by the changes made to the final bill as it relates to use of military installations. Ever since I learned of the border crisis and the president’s plan to use Fort Sill in my district for housing illegal minors, I’ve thought it was an inappropriate use of military facilities. I am pleased that this strong language was included because it will help prevent the confusion of missions at our military bases and reserve use for our military personnel.” Cole represents Lawton, which includes Fort Sill Military Base that is currently being used to house unaccompanied illegal minors. ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
07.30.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House passed H. Res. 676, “Providing for authority to initiate litigation for actions by the President or other executive branch officials inconsistent with their duties under the Constitution of the United States.” “Throughout his time in office, President Barack Obama has shown a consistent pattern of executive overreach by repeatedly choosing to bypass Congress and unilaterally change laws, especially with the implementation of Obamacare,” said Cole. “While it is unfortunate that we have been driven to this point, the president must be held accountable for unconstitutional behavior. In order to seek both resolution and clarification, I believe that initiating a lawsuit is the most appropriate tool available to clearly define executive power and authority for this president. “Clearly, we have a profound difference of opinion with the president. House Republicans hope that this lawsuit will bring the resolution we desperately need. The president must work with Congress to pass laws, not create his own.” Yesterday, the House Rules Committee held a hearing for consideration of H. Res. 676. To watch Congressman Cole’s remarks during the hearing in favor of the lawsuit, click here. ###
07.30.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House passed the Conference Report to Accompany H.R. 3230, the Veterans’ Access to Care through Choice, Accountability and Transparency Act of 2014. This legislation includes $10 billion for the Veterans Choice Fund, $5 billion for improving the internal medical force at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and $1.5 billion to start up new VA clinics, including one in Tulsa. “With the unacceptable treatment of our veterans due to mismanagement at the Department of Veterans Affairs, lawmakers have worked together to find solutions that allow veterans to get the care they need when they need it,” said Cole. “I am pleased that the House today passed a bipartisan fix that addresses the many problems due to internal negligence, preventing thousands of veterans from seeing a doctor. By putting new accountability measures in place, increasing the VA medical force and speeding up the process for those who have been waiting too long, I believe we are on the right track to solving the issues that have put our veterans at risk.” ###
07.29.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), a member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, released the following statement after the House working group unveiled its proposal to address the influx of unaccompanied illegal minors along the southern border. In response to the president’s $3.7 billion request, the working group instead recommended only $659 million and set forth conditions for actually dealing with the cause of the problem. The supplemental proposal includes language recommended by Cole and secured by the working group that addresses the use of military facilities for housing illegal minors. As seen in the proposal, this language explains that the Department of Defense should provide written and advance notice to Congress and the public in the Federal Register about housing UAC’s at military facilities. In addition, it explains that the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) should not use military facilities for more than 120 days nor should it “displace active members of the Armed Forces” or “interfere with any mission of the Department of Defense.” “Rather than manage the surge and throw money we don’t have at the problem, I am pleased that the working group offered a proposal that actually addresses the situation at our borders,” said Cole. “Furthermore, I am pleased that the bill included language that I had requested expressing the sense of Congress that military bases should not be used to house these illegal immigrants. It’s unfair that facilities designed for military use are being inappropriately used to house those who entered the country illegally.” Cole’s recommended language appears in Section 302 of the bill text here. For information about the specifics of the legislation, click here. ###
07.28.2014	Washington, D.C.—Today, Reps. Steve Israel (D-NY), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Ted Deutch (D-FL) and Tom Cole (R-OK) announced that more than 100 bipartisan Members of Congress joined them in sending a letter to Navi Pillay, the U.N.'s top human rights official, calling on the UN to condemn Hamas’ use of civilians as human shields, which is a direct violation of international law. Hamas, a designated terrorist group, continues to launch missiles aimed at civilians in Israeli population centers and refuses to de-escalate the conflict by adhering to internationally-backed cease-fires. Rep. Israel said, “The fact that Hamas uses Palestinian civilians as human shields shows their blatant disregard for human life. Israel, on the other hand, is doing everything in its power, not only to protect its own citizens, but also to prevent as much as possible causalities among Palestinians. That the UN is choosing to wrongly investigate Israel’s actions rather than condemning Hamas’ continual violation of international law is simply despicable. That’s why I join my colleagues in calling on the UN to rethink its course.” Rep. Ros-Lehtinen said, “Hamas’ use of Palestinian men, women and children as human shields and its indiscriminate rocket attacks against innocent Israeli civilians illustrates the crass indifference Hamas shows for human life. Yet the very body at the UN – the UN Human Rights Council (UNHRC) – that was created to protect and promote human rights around the world couldn’t even muster a word to denounce this egregious and intolerable violation of international humanitarian law. This letter puts the UNHRC on alert that it can no longer continue its anti-Israel agenda, and it must investigate Hamas’ human rights violations.” Rep. Deutch said, “It is Hamas that chose to invest money in underground bunkers for its leaders and terror tunnels and rocket launchers, instead of jobs, schools and healthcare for the people of Gaza. And it is Hamas who uses its own people as human shields to protect these rocket launchers. The use of civilians to protect military objectives is a direct violation of the Geneva Conventions. Hamas’ use of civilians as human shields is deplorable and should be condemned by any nation that values human rights.” Rep. Cole said, “I join my colleagues in again condemning Hamas, both for its refusal to abide by ceasefire agreements and for its disregard for human life. Especially in light of the last several days of conflict, we are deeply grieved by the lives lost in Israel and Gaza. But because Hamas officials haven’t appropriately warned Gaza residents of known Israeli air strikes and have instead encouraged them to stay in their homes, the loss of innocent civilians is much worse and could have been prevented if warnings were heeded. In light of Hamas’ obvious crimes against its own people that includes using them as human shields, it is absolutely inappropriate for the United Nations Human Rights Council to investigate Israel for violations of international law.” To read a copy of the letter, click here. ### Contact:Samantha Slater (202) 225-3335 (Israel) Keith Fernandez (Ros-Lehtinen) Ashley Mushnick (Deutch)Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165 (Cole)
07.23.2014	Washington, D.C. — Today, Reps. Steve Israel (D-NY), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Ted Deutch (D-FL) and Tom Cole (R-OK) announced that they are sending a letter to Navi Pillay, High Commissioner for Human Rights for the UN Human Rights Council calling on her to condemn Hamas’ use of civilians as human shields, which is a direct violation of international law. Hamas, a designated terrorist group, continues to launch missiles aimed at civilians in Israeli population centers and refuses to de-escalate the conflict by agreeing to internationally-backed cease-fires. In the letter, the representatives write, “The council has established a commission of inquiry to unjustly probe alleged war crimes and violations of international law by the nation defending its citizens from rocket attacks and terror tunnels, rather than the terrorist group whose depravity makes a policy of using its citizens as human shields while its terror commanders flee to fortified bunkers.” They go on to state, “These grave violations of international law cannot be ignored. Any nation or multilateral body that values human rights must condemn the use of civilians as human shields. This is the effort the United Nations should be leading and you should be speaking out against.” To read a copy of the letter, click here. ### Contact: Samantha Slater (Israel) Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165 (Cole) Keith Fernandez (Ros-Lehtinen) Ashley Mushnick (Deutch)
07.21.2014	Washington, D.C. — The Oklahoma Congressional Delegation today urged the Obama Administration to reconsider its use of Fort Sill Army Base in Lawton, Okla., as a long-term holding facility for Unaccompanied Alien Children (UAC). On Friday, Health and Human Services (HHS) announced that Defense Sec. Chuck Hagel approved a request from HHS to extend and expand the Department of Defense’s (DOD) commitment to house UAC on military bases. The agreement calls for the DOD to house up-to an additional 5,000 UAC in addition to the ongoing support for 3,600 children approved in May. The agreement also commits DOD facilities to be used through January 31, 2015. “First and foremost, the Oklahoma delegation is proud of Fort Sill and the community for rising to the occasion to assist the children that are in the crosshairs of this unfortunate crisis. There is significant concern the contract with Fort Sill is turning into a commitment beyond what was originally proposed by the Administration and will soon begin to impede on the base’s vital responsibility to house and train new recruits,” said Sen. Jim Inhofe, ranking member of Senate Armed Services Committee. “During my visit in June to meet the children and tour UAC housing, I warned local leaders that I fully expected the Obama Administration to push its limits with the use of Fort Sill. The Obama Administration’s lack of organization and the President’s failure to send a strong signal that he will secure the border will only increase demand of our military installations. While our military bases have been used before to temporarily aid migrants and refugees, we now have an Administration that is asking our military to do more with less resources than ever before. President Obama needs to stop putting the onus on our military to manage his crisis, and he needs to prioritize solutions that will quickly reunite these children with their families in their home country.” "Since we learned of the Administration's plan to use military installations for housing unaccompanied illegal minors, I have continually voiced my strong opposition to it,” said Rep. Tom Cole (4-OK). "While the flood of these juveniles has caused an apparent crisis, it is one of the president's own making due to a policy failure stemming from his unwillingness to enforce existing immigration law. Rather than acknowledge the problem at hand, the president has chosen to process individuals and allow them to stay in the United States, causing even more juveniles to make the journey. Not only is this surge causing a strain on the facilities and personnel of our military, but processing and detaining these juveniles on military installations does not and will not lead to a solution to the crisis. It instead incentivizes even more to come. I remain strongly opposed to use of our military bases for housing illegals, and most certainly do not support any time extension for HHS use of these facilities. Regardless of their origin, the treatment of all illegal immigrant children should be the same, meaning deportation should be immediate and mandatory." "The border crisis is a result of Administration policies and failure to enforce the law,” said Rep. Jim Bridenstine (OK-1), member of the House Armed Services Committee. "The surge of illegal entries at the southern border of the United States has resulted in children suffering and threatens our national security and national sovereignty. The compassionate thing to do is to deter people from making, or sending their children, on this dangerous journey. "The request to extend use of DOD facilities for housing UAC is a very real threat to U.S. military readiness. Ft. Sill is the primary artillery training center for troops before deployment. The barracks are needed in October to prepare them for housing our warfighters in this critical training mission. Secretary Hagel should not extend or expand the use of Ft. Sill as a UAC camp." “The Administration’s decision to hold the unaccompanied minors at Fort Sill in the first place was irresponsible,” said Rep. Markwayne Mullin (OK-2). “Fort Sill is not designed for this purpose, and turning the facility into a longer-term solution for housing these minors is extremely concerning. We need to be looking for real solutions not temporary fixes.” “Military bases such as Fort Sill have stepped up to temporarily house thousands of unaccompanied minors arriving from Central America. However, the Obama Administration cannot continue to rely on such facilities as a long-term solution to illegal immigration,” said Rep. Frank Lucas (OK-3). “If the president is serious about putting an end to this humanitarian crisis, he can start by securing our border and enforcing our country’s immigration laws.” “This is a problem of the President’s own creation,” said Rep. James Lankford (OK-5). "The task of safely and humanely housing thousands of unaccompanied alien children is a classic example of the President trying to manage a problem, rather than solve a problem. President Obama already has sufficient legal authority from Congress to quickly reunite these children with their families in their home country. "The law is clear; a child is not considered ‘unaccompanied’ unless they do not have a parent in the United States. The vast majority of these children already have at least one parent illegally in the United States. This is not an issue of human trafficking. This is an issue of ignoring the law and attempting to jump ahead of other immigrants who have waited patiently to legally enter the United States. The quality facilities provided to these children at Ft. Sill are ideal for the Administration to stall the enforcement of existing law and further the President's pro-amnesty agenda. As a father, I remain grateful to the hard-working contract personnel who are responsible for these children while in HHS custody in Oklahoma. But I continue to implore President Obama to enforce the law immediately and stop encouraging children to travel thousands of dangerous miles, only to face a delayed return home.” ### Contact: Donelle Harder (202) 224-4721 (Inhofe)Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165 (Cole) Sheryl Kaufman (202) 225-2211 (Bridenstine) Josh Miller (202) 225-2701 (Mullin) Andrew Witmer (202) 225-5565 (Lucas) Kelly Ferguson (202) 225-2132 (Lankford)
07.17.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), a member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement after President Barack Obama announced his intention yesterday to impose more sanctions on Russia in response to continued conflict along the Russia-Ukraine border. Today, concerns surrounding the conflict in the region intensified after Malaysia Flight MH17, en route to Kuala Lumpur from Amsterdam, was shot down and crashed in Ukraine near a pro-Russia separatist stronghold. “In the wake of today’s heartbreaking incident and following the president’s announcement to impose more sanctions on Russia, we are reminded of the gravity of the conflict and danger facing our friends in Ukraine,” said Cole. “In light of these events, it has become increasingly urgent for the United States to consider other ways to assist Ukraine in its time of desperate need. “While the Ukrainian defense force continues to hold the line in the midst of growing threats, the rebels and the Russians continue to bully and attempt to dismember Ukraine. Beyond imposing sanctions, we must stand alongside Ukraine in its fight for survival against pro-Russian separatists, whether through providing equipment, strategic advice or intelligence. Especially in light of today’s incident, it would be well-advised for the president to explore such options immediately by sending a delegation to Kiev in order to define the needs of our Ukrainian friends and determine how we can help them defeat the separatist movement. Without some sort of significant aid to the Ukrainian military, stability in the region will likely remain elusive. “Ukraine is an important friend that shares our values. Rather than relying exclusively on sanctions, this unfolding situation requires strong, decisive leadership by President Obama. He must show that he’s ready to lead through aid that will actually deter the rebels and the Russians from this violence,” concluded Cole. ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
07.16.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 5016, the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2015. This annual funding bill totaling $21.3 billion covers the Treasury Department, Judiciary, Small Business Administration, Securities and Exchange Commission and other related agencies. In addition to providing this annual funding package, this legislation limits the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) through reductions to its overall funding and measures that encourage accountability and prevent abuse. More specifically, the bill upholds the First Amendment to the United States Constitution by prohibiting the targeting of individuals due to their religious or political beliefs. “The Administration’s priority should be to lead the country according to the freedoms afforded to every American,” said Cole. “Regardless of the president or the partisan identity of the Administration, abuse of power cannot be tolerated within the IRS or any other federal agency. Due to the IRS scandal that involved the unconstitutional targeting of conservative groups, I am pleased that the House has taken action through this bill to prevent future abuse, encourage accountability and limit the overall funds available to the agency.” ###
07.15.2014	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), along with her colleagues, U.S. Reps. Tom Cole (R-OK) and Matt Salmon (R-AZ), introduced the Fuel Choice for American Security and Prosperity Act (FCAPS), a bill that would provide automakers the option of reducing their CAFE obligation by four miles per gallon if half or more of the vehicles they manufacture in a model year are warranted to operate on any technology in addition to or instead of petroleum-based fuel. Statement by Ros-Lehtinen: “Fuel competition in our transportation sector will improve U.S. energy and national security, increase our foreign policy flexibility, spur economic growth, and lower fuel prices. By providing more options at the pump, we can dampen the impact of oil price volatility and reduce the leverage of oil rich governments and rogue regimes that are unstable, repressive, or hostile to the United States and who use oil as a weapon to undermine U.S. foreign policy efforts. Fuel choice will also allow the American economy to capitalize on our plentiful domestic resources, create jobs, and encourage innovation, all while driving down the price of fuel. “By providing automakers the option of rolling back costly fuel economy regulations, we are incentivizing a technologically neutral, free market competition for transportation fuels without government mandate and without picking winners and losers. I am proud to introduce the Fuel Choice for American Security and Prosperity Act with my colleagues Tom and Matt and look forward to working with the rest of the House to move this important bill forward.” Statement by Cole: "I am pleased to join my colleagues in introducing legislation that allows consumers to choose the most cost-effective fueling option at the pump. By encouraging automakers to manufacture cars that operate on a variety of fuels, this allows them to not only meet the necessary CAFE regulations but also be more competitive in the process. Certainly, this legislation helps consumers and automakers alike.” Statement by Salmon: “By incentivizing American auto companies to make better use of our abundant, domestic energy resources, we offer them the opportunity to be a part of the “all-the-above” solution to our national energy and security needs.” ### Contact: Keith Fernandez (202) 225-8200 (Ros-Lehtinen)Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165 (Cole) Link to original release
07.11.2014	Washington, D.C. — Today, Reps. Steve Israel (D-Huntington) and Tom Cole (R-Oklahoma) applauded the passage of their bipartisan resolution supporting the State of Israel’s right to defend itself against unprovoked rocket attacks from Hamas, a terrorist organization. The resolution passed with more than 140 cosponsors. Rep. Israel said, “I applaud the passage of this bipartisan resolution affirming U.S. support for Israel’s right to defend itself against violence. It demonstrates the strong and unwavering partnership between the U.S. and the State of Israel and sends a clear message to Hamas and other terrorist organizations that acts of terror against Israel will not be tolerated.” Rep. Tom Cole said, “I am pleased that the House reinforced its support of our friends in Israel during times of great tension and unrest in the region. Over the last several weeks, Hamas has fired hundreds of rockets into Israel from the Gaza Strip, putting the lives of our Israeli friends in grave danger. As Israel combats these acts of terror, I am pleased that this resolution shows that America stands behind our friends. I am also very proud that the Iron Dome, a joint Israeli-American project that intercepts missiles, has helped in the fight against terror and protected millions of lives. During these times of unrest, this technology is proving indispensable.” H.Res. 657 reaffirms the support of the United States for Israel’s right to defend itself against terrorist attacks, condemns the unprovoked attacks, calls on Hamas to immediately cease all rocket attacks against Israel. Since June 2014, Hamas has fired more than 600 rockets at Israel from the Gaza Strip. The Israeli army estimates that with its current reach, Hamas’ rockets endanger an estimated 6 million people—more than half of the Israeli population. The attacks have been condemned by White House spokesman Josh Earnest and U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. Hamas, a Sunni Islamist party, has governed the Gaza strip since 2007. They are designated as a terrorist organization by the United States, Canada, Australia and the European Union. ### Contact: Samantha Slater (202) 225-3335 (Israel)Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165 (Cole)
07.11.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) requested expanded and longer use of Department of Defense (DoD) facilities to house the unaccompanied alien children (UAC) swarming our borders. Since fiscal year 2011, the number of these individuals entering our country has grown from 6,000 to 66,000 last year. By next year, as many as 150,000 children are expected to illegally enter the country. Due to this flood of illegal juveniles, the normal facilities are unable to manage this surge leading the Administration to allow and order the use of our military bases, including Fort Sill in Lawton, for housing and processing these children before they are released to sponsors elsewhere in the country—supposedly on a temporary basis. According to recent reports, in addition to the capacity for 3,600 children currently being provided by DoD, HHS is now asking for the capability to house up to 5,000 more unaccompanied children through January 31, 2015 if permanent facilities are not yet available. “As suspected, the surge of illegal juveniles at our borders and the president’s supposedly temporary plan to use military bases for housing is looking more permanent by the day,” said Cole. “By requesting expansion of the military facilities and setting an even longer timeframe, it appears that the Administration intends to turn military bases into permanent detention facilities. This is an incredible failure on the part of the Administration and an incredible injustice to our service men and women for which these facilities are designed. “Unless and until we remove the incentives for these illegal juveniles to enter our country, they will continue to overwhelm our borders. The president must stop the rhetoric and get serious about solving this problem. That means sending these individuals back to their country of origin and doing so as expeditiously as possible. It’s time to stop trying to manage the flow and fix the problem.” ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
07.09.2014	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Steve Israel (D-Huntington) and Congressman Tom Cole (R-Oklahoma) introduced a resolution supporting the State of Israel’s right to defend itself against unprovoked rockets attacks from Hamas, a terrorist organization. Their bipartisan resolution reaffirms U.S. support for Israel’s right to defend itself against terrorist attacks, condemns the unwarranted attacks and calls on Hamas to immediately cease all rocket attacks against Israel. The resolution currently has more than 50 cosponsors. Rep. Israel said, “I vehemently condemn Hamas and its cowardly rocket attacks against the State of Israel. Despite Israel’s repeated efforts to pursue peace, Hamas has continued its policy of terror and violence against the Israeli people. That’s why I introduced this bipartisan resolution that expresses U.S. support for Israel’s right to defends itself against these unprovoked and unwarranted attacks and ensure its survival. I stand with the people of Israel during this difficult time.” Rep. Cole said, “Israel is one of America’s most important and loyal friends. As the world has watched the unrest and tension reach a new height over the last several days with rockets fired into Israel by Hamas, we remain supportive of Israel’s right to combat these terrorist acts. I am pleased to introduce this legislation and reinforce America’s support of Israel.” Since June, 2014, Hamas has fired more than 500 rockets into Israel from the Gaza Strip, including over 225 rockets in the past 36 hours. The Israeli army estimates that with its current reach, Hamas’ rockets endanger an estimated 6 million people—more than half of the Israeli population. The attacks have been condemned by White House spokesman Josh Earnest and U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. Hamas, a Sunni Islamist party, has governed the Gaza strip since 2007. They are designated as a terrorist organization by the United States, Canada, Australia and the European Union. ### Contact: Samantha Slater (Israel) Sarah Corley (Cole)
06.30.2014	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement today after the Supreme Court of the United States ruled on the case, Sebelius, Sec. of HHS v. Hobby Stores, Inc. The Court ruled 5-4 in favor of Hobby Lobby’s request to be excused from the contraceptive mandate in Obamacare that required business owners to cover contraceptives and abortifacients. Privately-held and owned by the Green family in Oklahoma, Hobby Lobby currently provides employee health plans that cover 16 forms of birth control--all under the barrier method. The HHS mandate would have required that the company also provide access to some contraceptives and abortifacients that terminate life, contradicting the family’s deeply-held religious belief that life begins at conception and jeopardizing their right to religious freedom. “Today we celebrate with the Green family, who led a brave and courageous charge to preserve religious freedom for all Americans,” said Cole. “Hobby Lobby has long been known in Oklahoma and across the country for incorporating faith when running its many stores and businesses. Despite an unfair and unconstitutional mandate from the Administration, the Greens continued to live out and stand firm in their faith by fighting for their right to practice it in every aspect of their lives, including how they run their private business. I am pleased that the Supreme Court recognized that private business owners cannot be compelled by the federal government to offer those forms of birth control that terminate life when it violates their religious convictions. This decision is not only a victory for the Green family but all Americans who desire for our unique freedoms to continue as our Founders intended.” ###
06.26.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House passed three energy-related bills this week. On Tuesday, the House passed H.R. 3301, the North American Energy Infrastructure Act, to streamline the approval process for cross-border pipeline projects like Keystone. On Wednesday, the House passed H.R. 6, the Domestic Prosperity and Global Freedom Act, to encourage export of liquefied natural gas (LNG) to allied nations. The House also passed H.R. 4899, the Lowering Gasoline Prices to Fuel an America that Works Act, to encourage domestic energy production and exploration. “I am pleased that the House passed legislation that encourages use of our own resources in order to support our nation’s energy needs,” said Cole. “With a rich supply of oil and natural gas already in our midst, preventing domestic production and exploration is both wasteful and irresponsible. The less we utilize our own resources, the more dependent we become on foreign oil, primarily from unstable countries in the Middle East. In order to combat this dangerous addiction to foreign oil, which causes our gas prices to fluctuate, we must clear the pathway for domestic production and cross-border projects like the Keystone XL pipeline.” To learn more about the pro-energy House bills passed this week, see the following fact sheets from the committees of jurisdiction: H.R. 3301 (sponsored by the House Committee on Energy and Commerce) H.R. 6 (sponsored by the House Committee on Energy and Commerce) H.R. 4899 (sponsored by the House Committee on Natural Resources ###
06.26.2014	Washington, D.C. – Building on the strong support for her Commission on Native Children bill, U.S. Senator Heidi Heitkamp, a member of the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs, today announced that Republican Congressman Tom Cole from Oklahoma introduced her bill in the U.S. House of Representatives. The Commission would address the challenges facing Native American children by examining issues – such as high poverty rates, unemployment, child abuse, domestic violence, substance abuse, and few economic opportunities – and making concrete recommendations to protect Native children and provide them with opportunities to excel and thrive. Last month, the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs overwhelmingly passed Heitkamp's bill, the final step before it advances to the full Senate. The bill now has 32 bipartisan cosponsors in the Senate. “Congressman Cole has a strong history of working for Native families both as a Congressman and as a member of the Chickasaw Nation in Oklahoma. I greatly appreciate that he introduced my bill in the House of Representatives, and look forward to working with him to get it passed,” said Heitkamp. “While it has been heartbreaking to hear some of the stories and challenges facing Native children through my years of public service in North Dakota, I’m incredibly encouraged by the bipartisan progress we have made for this bill in the halls of Congress. We have an important responsibility to honor our commitments to Native children and my bill will help make that possible.” "I am pleased to introduce the House-version of Senator Heidi Heitkamp’s bill that seeks to improve the livelihood of Native American children,” said Cole. “Through formation of a commission that studies the needs of our Native children and the current federal benefits received or lack thereof, I believe that this legislation can help the federal government keep its trust responsibility. Certainly, this legislation will help ensure that generations of Native children are given the opportunity to thrive.” Since her time as North Dakota’s Attorney General in the 1990s, Heitkamp has worked to stand up for Native families and children. After introducing her Commission on Native Children bill in October 2013 with Republican Senator Lisa Murkowski from Alaska, Heitkamp has worked to build strong support for it. Heitkamp and Murkowski recently penned an op-ed about the importance of their bill to supporting Native children and the need to fulfill the federal government’s broken promises to Native kids and families. The Senate bill’s 32 cosponsors include conservative, moderate, and liberal Senators looking to stand up for Native children and make sure they have every opportunity to succeed. Heitkamp’s bill also has the strong support of all five tribes in North Dakota and many national Native American organizations. Heitkamp’s Alyce Spotted Bear and Walter Soboleff Commission on Native Children would conduct a comprehensive study on the programs, grants, and supports available for Native children, both at government agencies and on the ground in Native communities, with the goal of developing a sustainable system that delivers wrap-around services to Native children. Then, the 11 member Commission would issue a report to address a series of challenges currently facing Native children. A Native Children Subcommittee would also provide advice to the Commission. The Commission’s report would address how to achieve better use of existing resources, increased coordination, measurable outcomes, stronger data, stronger private sector partnerships, and implementation of best practices. ### Contact: Abbie McDonough, Todd Deutsch (202) 224-8898 (Heitkamp)Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165 (Cole)Link to original release
06.20.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), a member of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 4870, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2015. The legislation passed by a vote of 340-73 and includes an amendment authored by Cole that addresses the Administration’s proposed cuts to the United States Air Force. In March, the Air Force announced that it would remove nearly 500 active and reserve aircraft from its inventory over the next five years, including the inactivation of seven E-3 Airborne Warning and Control System (AWACS) aircraft stationed at Tinker Air Force Base in Midwest City and the de-establishment of the 513th Air Control Group (ACG) consisting of 520 reserve military personnel. Cole’s amendment prohibits the Air Force from removing those seven AWACS from its inventory, sustains the 513th ACG and provides the necessary funding to keep the aircraft active. Ahead of the bill’s consideration and passage on the floor, the Office of Management and Budget at the White House stated its objections to the bill, including Cole’s amendment to preserve and fund AWACS. The White House statement claimed that Cole’s provision would “prevent the Air Force from using funds to divest or to disestablish units of the active or reserve component associated with E-3 airborne warning and control system aircraft” and “force the Air Force to take funding from higher priority defense needs in order to operate, sustain, and maintain aircraft that are not needed and are unaffordable in today’s constrained fiscal environment.” “Not only does this legislation fund our military personnel, readiness and operations at home and abroad, but it also preserves critical capabilities that the Administration foolishly wants to eliminate,” said Cole. “In particular, I am pleased that the legislation passed by the House prevents the proposed deactivation of seven AWACS assets stationed at Tinker Air Force Base and provides the funding to keep them. “For decades, the Air Force has utilized AWACS in crises and conflicts across the globe. Still today, our AWACS fleet is not sitting idly by or lacking missions. Making cuts to the fleet and its only reserve personnel would noticeably strain our military and weaken our warfighting capability. Unfortunately, the president refuses to recognize that if we intend to win and prevent wars in the future, America needs AWACS. While the president thinks these fully-utilized aircraft are not needed, the risk we take in eliminating them is not one that can be remedied later. Once these aircraft are deactivated, they are fully dismantled, only usable for parts, and never operational again. “America’s strength is its Command and Control. The Administration’s recommended reductions to the size and capability of the AWACS fleet would significantly impact our Armed Forces in future conflict and jeopardize America’s national security interests,” concluded Cole. In addition, Cole also supported funding again this year for the C-130 Avionics Modernization Program (AMP). It has been the intent of Congress since 2013 that the Air Force obligate funds to continue and complete the program which would replace and standardize the 1960s era cockpits with the latest electronics to keep the C-130H fleet flying. ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
06.20.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) joined Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers and several other subcommittee chairs from the Appropriations Committee in sending a letter to President Barack Obama that opposes his handling of the surge of unaccompanied illegal minors crossing our borders. This population of individuals, usually from Central America, has grown from 6,000 in 2011 to 66,000 last year. By next year, this number is projected to climb as high as 150,000. In the letter, the delegation called upon President Obama to enforce existing immigration laws and create deterrents that would disincentive potential illegal immigrants. “While it initially went unnoticed, there is now a very apparent crisis at our borders,” said Cole. “Due to the failed policy of the Administration, thousands of unaccompanied illegal minors are flocking to our nation, where they are overwhelming our facilities. Because the normal facilities are not able to manage this surge, the Administration is now allowing and ordering use of our military bases, including Fort Sill in Lawton, for housing these juveniles. “Rather than only manage the flow, the president must address the reason for the sharp change in it. As the policy currently stands, once these individuals arrive in the United States, most of them are allowed to stay, which essentially incentivizes others to come and makes the problem even worse.” A copy of the letter sent to President Obama can be found here. Additionally, Congressman Cole’s recent remarks on the House floor about the crisis are available here. ###
06.20.2014	Washington, D.C. – Several senior members of Congressional Committees with jurisdiction over border and immigration issues today sent a joint letter to President Barack Obama, demanding immediate action from federal agencies on the immigration crisis at the Southwest border. The letter directs specific actions for the Administration to take – using currently available authorities and resources – to help address the massive influx of “Unaccompanied Alien Children” (UAC) into the United States from Central America. The text of the letter follows: June 19, 2014 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: As you know, the number of unaccompanied children and families crossing the Southwest border illegally is skyrocketing. We understand that many of these children are confronted with conflict, discord, and economic strife in their countries. While a partial explanation for this migration surge, we are equally concerned that your Administration’s immigration policies are creating a dangerous incentive for illicit networks to smuggle thousands of children into the United States. The number of undocumented children apprehended by United States Customs and Border Protection in May 2014 increased by 267 percent over the number apprehended in May 2013. During the same period, the number of undocumented adults increased 72 percent. At a rate of $5,000 per child, these criminal smuggling groups earned at least $53,230,000 in May alone. These statistics are startling in their magnitude and illustrate the consequences of improper enforcement of our border and immigration laws. Moreover, the situation could have frightening consequences both from a humanitarian and a national security perspective. Agents working along the Texas border find themselves regularly coming face to face with frightened mothers and children who have endured a grueling trip through Mexico, escorted by smugglers often tied or beholden to drug cartels. Many of these immigrants report being robbed or suffering sexual abuse. Even more worrisome are trend lines that indicate the number of illegal crossings is not decreasing as summer approaches – unlike in previous years. If circumstances do not change, we are concerned many of these children and adults face extremely poor, even life-threatening, physical conditions. These dire circumstances only increase the potential for many of these vulnerable children to be exploited or become victims of human trafficking. To end this dangerous migration, it is essential that the U.S. enforce our immigration laws and create effective and necessary deterrents so that potential illegal immigrants understand that their dream of reaching and being allowed to remain in the U.S. is unrealistic, and it is a virtual certainty they will be repatriated to their home countries. Furthermore, they must understand the risks they are taking to enter the U.S. illegally are far outweighed by the costs – including the cost of human lives and the consequences of violating U.S. immigration laws. Therefore, Mr. President, we urge you to take the following actions immediately: 1) Detain families who are recent border crossers in appropriate shelters near the Southwest border where practical and consistent with current law. 2) Utilize existing expedited immigration proceedings to determine whether these families have arrived in the country illegally. 3) Remove and deport those families who are ineligible to remain in the United States (not eligible for an immigration benefit), including those who make false claims of credible fear. 4) Place family members who are ineligible for immigration relief in expedited removal proceedings where appropriate. 5) Deliver “notices to appear” via post or issue 210 letters (which order recidivists to leave the United States within 30 days) to family members living in the United States illegally and with whom an undocumented child has been reunited. 6) Broadcast public service announcements on U.S.-based, Spanish-speaking television reporting on the deprivations and dangers of crossing from Central America through Mexico to the United States. All these actions comply with the laws of the land, and resources and funding are available to enact them immediately. Further, the fiscal year 2015 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations bill introduced in the House includes the funding necessary to continue to enforce the laws, providing substantially higher funding levels to compensate for these increased needs – needs that were not addressed in your budget request. In addition, the fiscal year 2015 State and Foreign Operations appropriations bill restores reductions proposed in the budget request to improve economic and security conditions, fight gangs and drug cartels, combat human trafficking, and enhance border security in Mexico and Central America. To determine whether the Southwest border is becoming increasingly vulnerable, the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee requested a briefing from the U.S. Border Patrol on June 17, 2014. Despite this request, the Department of Homeland Security has informed the Committee that such a briefing will be delayed indefinitely. As elected representatives of the American people, we demand that all Committees of jurisdiction be briefed immediately. We will not tolerate the withholding of such important and relevant information from Congress, particularly as the House considers appropriations bills that address border security and other funding needs related to this crisis. Addressing how to repatriate unaccompanied children with responsible government officials in Central America will require substantial cooperation and participation from the countries of origin. Consequently, we, the undersigned Representatives, request that the State Department increase its efforts to work with Central American countries and Mexico to address this influx of unaccompanied children. We expect Department of State officials to accompany the Department of Homeland Security to brief Members on this aspect of the problem. U.S. immigration laws are clear and must be administered appropriately to assure basic fairness to all legal immigrants, to maintain the integrity of the border and our national security, and to deter narco-traffickers, smugglers, and other illicit activities. Mr. President, there is a crisis on the border. We must work together to solve it and urge you to implement the recommendations above. Sincerely, S/ House Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers S/ House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman John Carter S/ House Commerce, Science, Justice Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Frank Wolf S/ Congressman Tom Cole S/ House Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Jack Kingston S/ House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul cc: The Honorable John Kerry Secretary of State The Honorable Eric H. Holder, Jr. Attorney General The Honorable Sylvia Burwell Secretary of Health and Human Services The Honorable Jeh Johnson Secretary of Homeland Security ###
06.11.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House unanimously passed H.R. 4810, the Veteran Access to Care Act of 2014. This legislation allows veterans to seek medical care through a non-Department facility if they are unable to get an appointment secured within 14 days or if they live more than 40 miles from a VA medical facility. “Last month, we were confronted by the unacceptable treatment of our veterans due to mismanagement at the Department of Veterans Affairs,” said Cole. “This mismanagement resulted in extended wait times for securing an appointment and prevented many veterans from getting the care they needed when they needed it. While we continue to investigate and remedy the situation at the VA, I am pleased that lawmakers passed a measure that will give veterans the option of seeing a doctor elsewhere. We must never fail to take care of those who put their lives on the line for us.” Passage of this legislation complements other efforts that address the severe mismanagement and lack of accountability at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). In late May, the House passed H.R. 4031, the Department of Veterans Affairs Management Accountability Act of 2014, which gives the VA Secretary the authority to remove senior executives if performance warrants it. On Monday, the House also passed by voice vote H.R. 2072, the Demanding Accountability for Veterans Act of 2014, which provides greater accountability of the VA through the VA Inspector General. ###
06.05.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after it was discovered that Fort Sill Military Base in Lawton is expected to begin housing at least 600 unaccompanied minors who illegally immigrated to the United States. Since fiscal year 2011, the number of these individuals, usually from Central America, has grown from 6,000 to 66,000 last year. By next year, this number is expected to climb even higher to 127,000. Usually between 13 and 17 years old, these individuals enter the United States and go into custody of border patrol agents, who cannot release them to detention facilities since they are minors. While no official announcement has yet been made by the Administration, Fort Sill could begin receiving hundreds of illegal juvenile unaccompanied minors as early as June 10th. "I have no doubt that the Department of Defense, the U.S. Army and the command and soldiers at Fort Sill will execute any order they are given or task they are assigned professionally and humanely,” said Cole. “I am equally confident that the Lawton community will do whatever it can to support the soldiers at Fort Sill as they go about discharging the duties which they have been assigned. "However, I am disappointed and dismayed that the Administration has failed to provide timely notification to the Oklahoma congressional delegation and to state and local officials about its plan to use facilities designed to house our troops as a juvenile detention center for illegal unaccompanied minors. This plan is an inappropriate use of military facilities. It will inevitably strain and limit facilities and resources that are intended for the use of service men and women. "I am both astonished and upset that I and others have learned about the Administration's plan from unofficial sources, rather than through a process of official notification The manner in which we have been informed of this decision allows almost no time to protest its implementation, to consider alternative solutions or to prepare for the arrival of hundreds of illegal aliens at a facility which is neither intended nor designed for their use. In my view, this is incredibly unfair to the American military. Using Fort Sill and other military bases to house illegal immigrants is simply an inappropriate use of military facilities. Moreover, I am concerned that what begins as an emergency measure could, over time, evolve into a permanent juvenile detention center for those who have entered the country illegally. This could result in a confusion of missions at what is the one of America's premier military installations. "It is rumored that the Administration intends to house those juveniles detained at Fort Sill with family members already in this country or through our foster care system. That, to me, is de facto amnesty. It would be far more appropriate to return those who have come to the country illegally to their country of origin as quickly and humanely as possible. Otherwise, we will simply encourage this flood of unaccompanied juveniles to continue and expand in the years ahead," concluded Cole. ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
06.02.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) made the following statement after the release of Sergeant Bowe Bergdahl, an American soldier who was captured by the Taliban in 2009. Bergdahl was released by the Taliban on Saturday in exchange for five senior Taliban leaders who were detained by the United States at Guantanamo Bay. “Especially in times of war, we are grateful for the men and women who courageously volunteered their service in our military to preserve and defend freedom,” said Cole. “Whether serving on our own soil or directly in harm’s way overseas, the lives of our military are invaluable. Undoubtedly, we certainly understand the relief felt by the family of Sergeant Bowe Bergdahl, who was released from the captivity of terrorists after nearly five years. “While Americans always celebrate the return of one of our own soldiers from captivity, the manner in which the release of Sergeant Bergdahl was achieved diminishes the safety of other Americans serving in harm's way while increasing the risks of future acts of terror and hostage taking by terrorists operating in Afghanistan and elsewhere around the globe. More importantly, the recent action by the Administration violates a cardinal rule of American diplomacy. The United States does not negotiate with terrorists nor do we bargain for hostages. “Even more concerning, the president did not notify Congress of his intention to engage in this exchange, which directly violates current law requiring notification and threat assessment of such transfers at least 30 days in advance. Because the president acted alone, rather than consulting Congress, he has put our nation and world in greater danger. Moreover, he has ignited a domestic debate that will confuse our friends, embolden our enemies and divide our country. That could have been avoided had the president followed the law and consulted with Congress before he engaged in this ill-advised prisoner exchange.” ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
05.30.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) and Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) filed today the Social Security Commission Act of 2014. The legislation creates a bicameral and bipartisan commission that is modelled after the 1983 Social Security Commission. The Social Security Commission Act of 2014 is designed to bring both parties and both chambers together, in conjunction with the President, to find a solution that guarantees the long-term health of Social Security. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office has found that absent changes, Social Security will be unable to pay full benefits on its own by 2031. The text of the legislation is available here. “By any measure, Social Security is one of the most successful programs in American history and I intend to keep it that way. In my view, this legislation has a simple and straightforward goal: protecting and preserving Social Security,” said Congressman Delaney. “I’m troubled by the irrefutable data before us: that if we don’t adjust the funding and other aspects of Social Security now, we will either need large benefit cuts down the road or risk crowding out other priorities. This is a question of preserving benefits. The Social Security Commission Act of 2014 creates a roadmap for avoiding this dilemma and ensuring benefits for generations of Americans. I’m honored to work with Congressman Cole, a true statesman, on this legislation.” “Beginning with that very first job, usually by high school, every American contributes to Social Security. Throughout the entirety of working life, that deduction shows up on a person’s paycheck with the promise of some sort of future benefit,” said Congressman Cole. “Unfortunately, without immediate changes that modernize the current system, Social Security will not be able to follow through on that promise. I am pleased that this legislation seeks to find solutions that will not only benefit those at or close to retirement but also provide for our children and grandchildren that are currently paying into the system.” The Delaney-Cole legislation would provide for the following: • A 13 member commission, with 12 members appointed by leadership from both parties in the House and Senate (three appointees from each party’s leader in each chamber). Two of the Congressional appointees must be non-elected experts. The commission is chaired by the 13th appointee, named by the President. • Within one year of their first meeting, the commission must report to Congress on the 75-year health of Social Security and provide recommendations for how to improve the program. • The commission’s report must have a minimum of 9 votes, guaranteeing bipartisan consensus. • The legislation based on the commission’s plan would then receive expedited consideration in Congress for an up or down vote. ### Contact: Will McDonald (202) 225-2721 (Delaney)Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165 (Cole)
05.29.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representatives Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) and Tom Cole (OK-04) introduced the Rural Wind Energy Development Act to provide an investment tax credit to ranchers, farmers, and small businesses to offset the up-front costs of owning a distributed wind turbine. This modest expansion of current law will keep small business energy jobs growing across the United States. Small wind turbines (generating up to 20 megawatts of clean energy) allow farmers, ranchers, and other consumers to cut their energy bills and, at times, sell power back into the grid. They also allow thousands of businesses—from “mom and pop” stores, to retailers, to ranches, and to breweries—to reduce their energy load, to help clean the environment, and to save money. The Department of Energy’s national laboratories estimate that community wind generates a strong economic multiplier for local communities, helping rural areas rebound from challenging economic times. “Community wind energy not only creates American-produced electricity, but American jobs as well,” said Blumenauer. “Approximately 90% of distributed wind turbines sold in the U.S. are made here, according to domestic manufacturing content, creating non-exportable, family wage jobs.” “I am pleased to once again work with my friend and colleague in furthering the success of the same credit we worked to create in 2008,” said Cole. “Not only does the credit play an important role in encouraging and developing an all-of-the-above energy approach for our nation, but it also ensures that America continues to be a leader in innovation. By modestly increasing this credit, we can continue to encourage economic development, especially in our rural communities.” The existing investment credits, which may be taken in lieu of the federal Production Tax Credit for large-scale wind projects, have worked very well, but are too limiting. This bill strikes the existing 100 kilowatt nameplate limitation for small wind systems, and expands the maximum wind turbine size to 20 megawatts, in line with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission definition of distributed wind power. This will provide stability and certainty for the distributed wind market and unlock the necessary investment to grow our global leadership role in distributed wind power, while helping Americans take advantage of clean, renewable, affordable power. ### Contact: Patrick Malone (202) 225-4811 (Blumenauer)Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165 (Cole)
05.22.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 4435, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2015. Before reaching the House floor, this legislation was passed out of the House Armed Services Committee on May 8 by a unanimous vote. The bill authorizes funding for our nation’s military, including $521.3 billion in national defense spending and $79.4 billion set aside for Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO), and it does so in accordance with the bipartisan Murray-Ryan budget deal. Highlights of the legislation include $92 million for military health system modernization, $39.6 million for AWACS, $88.4 million for C-130 avionics upgrades and $635 million for A-10 aircraft. It also prevents closure of bases proposed by the Administration. “Even in the midst of shrinking budgets, particularly in the Department of Defense, the House acted responsibly today to authorize funding for our military personnel, readiness and operations both at home and abroad,” said Cole. “Amongst some of the provisions secured, I am pleased that the bill included funding for several vital aviation programs including AWACS, C-130 and A-10. “Not only does the legislation acknowledge the need for several important programs, but it also takes care to support those who defend us on a daily basis. The bill abides by current law and allows for a 1.8 percent annual increase in pay for our troops and ensures the military health system will be modernized. “Over the last several months, the world has watched an unraveling situation between Ukraine, Russia and the peninsula of Crimea. Even though the United States hasn’t been directly attacked by Russia, we must take steps to blunt Russian aggression and help diffuse conflict in the region. I am pleased that this legislation condemns Russia’s recent actions and shows that we will stand with our allies. “As we begin the appropriations process next week, I believe we can continue to find solutions that help secure our nation’s defenses and give our dedicated members of the Armed Forces the resources they need.” Final passage also included adoption of a bipartisan amendment introduced by Cole, along with Congressman Derek Kilmer (WA-06), that prevents furlough for federal Department of Defense employees paid through Working Capital Funds (WCF) while funds still remain. “The services provided by WCF employees are already fully funded apart from the appropriations process. In fact, imposing furloughs actually hurts our economic recovery and costs the taxpayers more through delayed production, overhead increases and the need for overtime or transfer of workload to more expensive sources of work. This amendment will prevent that from happening and protect our valuable personnel,” concluded Cole. For more bill highlights, click here. ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
05.19.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Derek Kilmer (D-WA) and Representative Tom Cole (R-OK) introduced an amendment to prevent furloughs for federal Department of Defense employees paid through working capital funds. The amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) would ensure that thousands of workers across the country would not face unpaid leave days due to furloughs as a result of across-the-board budget cuts. More than 170,000 Department of Defense civilian employees are paid using working capital funds. Working capital funds do not receive direct funding through the annual appropriations process but by fees collected from customers for goods and services these civilian workers provide. “Furloughing workers funded through capital funds does not–and cannot—save the government money,” said Kilmer. “Sending these workers home without pay just means needlessly delaying projects that have already been funded. I have continually raised concerns about the legal justification the Department has used when furloughing these workers. That is why I am pleased to work closely with Representative Cole to ensure that we are living up to our commitments to the defense workforce, promoting military readiness, and saving taxpayers’ money.” “I am pleased to help introduce this bipartisan provision which prohibits the furlough of civilian employees while funds remain in the Defense Working Capital Funds (WCF),” said Cole. “The services provided by WCF employees are already fully funded apart from the appropriations process. In fact, imposing furloughs actually hurts our economic recovery and costs the taxpayers more through delayed production, overhead increases and the need for overtime or transfer of workload to more expensive sources of work. This amendment will prevent that from happening and protect our valuable personnel.” The Representatives’ amendment will be considered by the Rules Committee before it moves to the full House floor as part of the NDAA. ### Contact: Jason Phelps (202) 225-3459 (Kilmer)Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165 (Cole)
05.16.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) joined Congressman Pete Sessions (TX-32), Senator John Cornyn (TX) and several other colleagues in signing an amicus brief in support of Hotze v. Sebelius. While numerous lawsuits have been filed against the Affordable Care Act, this litigation brought forth last May questions the constitutionality of the law according to the Takings Clause of the Fifth Amendment and the Origination Clause. Even though the Supreme Court previously deemed the business and individual mandates in the law as taxes, the final version of Obamacare passed by both chambers originated in the Senate. This directly violates the constitutional requirement that revenue-raising bills begin in the House. Since the bill then inappropriately taxes individuals, the Takings Clause is then violated by taking “private property for public use without just compensation.” “Rightly so, there are numerous battles against the president’s healthcare law, but this case holds real promise in dismantling the failure that is Obamacare,” said Cole. “I am pleased to join with colleagues in both chambers to show our support, especially when the constitutional rights of Americans are threatened and obviously disrespected. In the days ahead, I am hopeful that the Court will take a thoughtful look at these violations and realize that – in addition to being terrible public policy - Obamacare is also built upon an illegitimate legal foundation.” ###
05.16.2014	Washington, D.C. — The American Red Cross today released a progress report on its work to help people and communities in Oklahoma rebuild and recover since a series of deadly tornadoes hit the state last May. The Oklahoma Tornados One-Year Update describes the response of the Red Cross immediately after the storms, its work to support recovery, and support for programs and projects that help people prepare to stay safe during future severe weather, thanks to the generosity of donors and the work of volunteers and staff. “The destruction in Oklahoma following last May’s deadly tornadoes is one of my most vivid memories in nearly six years at the American Red Cross, and I am deeply inspired by the resiliency of people as they have worked to recover and rebuild,” said Gail McGovern, president and CEO of the American Red Cross. “The Red Cross has stood with Oklahomans, delivering food, shelter, relief supplies and other support immediately after the tornadoes struck. We were with tornado survivors as they began the recovery process—and we will continue to help people in the months and years ahead.” “When the people of Oklahoma needed help, the American Red Cross was there,” said Oklahoma Governor Mary Fallin. “In the days after the May tornadoes, Red Cross volunteers could be found in communities across central Oklahoma, helping victims find shelter, providing food and water to first responders, and aiding in the cleanup efforts. I am profoundly grateful for the work they have already done to support our community, and I know they will be there for Oklahoma in the future as well.” “Looking back over the year and remembering the horrific tornado that hit my hometown of Moore, I am extremely grateful for the many Red Cross volunteers who immediately, urgently and skillfully provided assistance both in the critical hours after the storms and beyond,” said Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04). “Never once were we lacking in supplies or shelter for those displaced or severely impacted by the tragedy. In addition to providing vital relief efforts in Oklahoma’s darkest hour, the Red Cross continues to play an essential role in recovery efforts today through various services in our communities, including disaster preparedness education. Our state is surely stronger and our communities are still in high spirits because of the great work, commitment and support of the Red Cross. We are more grateful than words can express.” The work of the Red Cross is possible because of the compassion and generosity of the American public. The Red Cross has spent or made commitments to spend $48.1 million, nearly 92 percent of the $52.4 million donated for the Oklahoma tornadoes. The remaining donations will be used to support recovery and resiliency programs in the affected Oklahoma communities. IMMEDIATE DISASTER RESPONSE The report details how the Red Cross responded immediately after the first tornados tore through Oklahoma last May by providing food, water and relief supplies to survivors. In the months that followed, trained Red Cross caseworkers met one-on-one with thousands of Oklahomans to help them take the next steps in rebuilding their homes and lives. The Red Cross emergency relief and recovery efforts across multiple communities were powered by more than 2,500 workers – and 91 percent of them volunteers. The immediate response efforts of the Red Cross included: Activating more than 45 emergency response vehicles Providing more than 6,300 overnight stays in shelters Distributing nearly 400,000 relief items like ice chests, buckets, gloves, dust masks, flashlights, tarps, shovels, rakes, and sunscreen Providing more than 23,000 health and mental health contacts Serving nearly 460,000 meals and snacks RECOVERY EFFORTS CONTINUE The Red Cross has continued to work within the hard-hit communities, providing individuals and families with a variety of services to help them rebuild their lives and recover. Working with partners, the Red Cross has helped nearly 2,700 households – an estimated 8,000 people total – through recovery centers in El Reno, Moore, and Shawnee. The Red Cross is also providing more than $10.3 million in grants to community partners across the affected region to help people install new storm shelters in their homes. In addition, the Red Cross has also helped to replace classroom supplies by giving almost 400 Oklahoma educators from the El Reno, Mid-Del, and Moore school districts grants ranging from $500 to $1,500 last fall. PREPARING FOR THE FUTURE Tornadoes are an all-too-frequent threat in Oklahoma, and the Red Cross has stepped in with preparedness education to help people of all ages and backgrounds stay safe during storms. Through April, 2014, the Red Cross has helped close to 6,000 Oklahomans better prepare for severe weather through community events, school programs, and door-to-door outreach. Red Cross volunteers have fanned out across the region to reach people with emergency preparedness information and deliver thousands of preparedness kits. Red Cross volunteers are also going into schools to teach children how to better prepare for and emotionally cope with severe weather emergencies. Volunteers lead elementary school students in educational games and teach them how to put together their own emergency kits. The Red Cross is also working to better provide preparedness information and materials to the growing Hispanic community in Oklahoma. In addition to a community outreach fair held in March, the Red Cross is recruiting additional bilingual volunteers and working with the local Spanish-language media to share disaster preparedness information in both Spanish and English. Contact: Public Affairs Desk, Telephone: (202) 303-5551 (FOR MEDIA ONLY)Link to original release.
05.14.2014	Washington, D.C.—Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) congratulated this year’s winner of the Congressional Art Competition from the Fourth District of Oklahoma. Aamina Yousaf, who has studied art for three years, is a sophomore student at Plainview High School in Ardmore. She is the daughter of Muhammed Yousaf and Azra Perveen, and her art teacher is Brenda Fisher. Earlier this spring, high school students across the district were invited to participate in the annual contest, and all entries were judged by a panel of art and culture experts. After their thoughtful deliberation, Yousaf’s charcoal drawing entitled “Eagles” was declared the winner. Yousaf explained that she chose the subject of her work after a photograph of an eagle captured her attention and inspired her to use her favorite medium of charcoal to depict three eagles looking up at the sky. She explained, “I wanted to use black and white because I knew it would look really nice, and charcoal is my favorite. Then I decided on three eagles to draw in the focus of the picture.” While the piece only took a little over a week to create, it will now be displayed in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol for an entire year. “Every year I am amazed by the talent of our high school students in the Fourth District,” said Cole. “I am honored to congratulate Aamina Yousaf on her artistic achievement. Her impressively detailed masterpiece highlights the beauty and strength of the eagle. We are very fortunate to have her piece represent and showcase the talent of the Fourth District of Oklahoma for all visitors of the Capitol to admire.” ###
05.08.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House supported H. Res. 567, Establishment of the Select Committee on the Events Surrounding Benghazi. This resolution comes after last week’s discovery of White House emails that revealed the Administration’s role in purposefully misreporting the cause of the attack to the American people. Appointed by Speaker John Boehner, Congressman Trey Gowdy (SC-04), who is a former prosecutor, will serve as chairman of this select committee. The committee’s mission will be to investigate the September 11, 2012 terrorist attack that claimed the lives of four Americans, including Ambassador Christopher Stevens. Currently, five different House committees hold jurisdiction in areas related to the investigation, but this bipartisan panel will provide subpoena power over all the relevant information and key witnesses. “Nearly two years after the terrorist attack on our consulate in Benghazi, Americans still mourn the loss of four innocent Americans,” said Cole. “In light of the recent White House emails, it is more important than ever that we find answers about what really happened and demand accountability of those involved in covering up known facts. This is necessary not only for the families of the victims, who desperately need closure about their loved ones, but we owe truth to the entire nation regardless of how much time has gone by. “While we have already made progress in solving the tragedy through the tireless work of several House committees, there is still much that we do not know. Through the dogged leadership of Congressman Gowdy, I am confident that we can get to the bottom of the situation and uncover critical evidence, even if it’s politically inconvenient for the Administration.” ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
05.07.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House of Representatives voted in favor of H. Res. 574, a resolution to find Lois G. Lerner in contempt of Congress for her refusal to comply with a congressional subpoena issued by the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. Cole supported this resolution that passed the House today by a vote of 231-187. Lerner is the Former Director of Exempt Organizations at the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), which was exposed last year for purposefully targeting conservative and religious groups seeking tax-exempt status—most noticeably, those associated with the tea party. Today’s legislative action comes after Lerner attempted to plead the Fifth Amendment after she had already made a defensive statement during a May 22 hearing conducted by the Oversight Committee to investigate the unconstitutional targeting of conservative groups within her department of the IRS. “The IRS is a frighteningly powerful entity in the first place,” said Cole. “When rogue employees abuse that power to attempt to silence political speech, it is especially chilling. All Americans have a reasonable expectation that their freedom of speech and religion will be protected. Americans also expect and trust that those responsible for threatening these rights will be held accountable and justice will be served. Due to her refusal to cooperate with the IRS investigation, it seems that Lois Lerner thinks she is above the law. She and any other IRS employees who engaged in this shameful episode need to learn that they are not.” ###
05.07.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) praised his colleague Congressman Jim Bridenstine (OK-01) for sponsoring an amendment that will prevent the deactivation of three E-3 Airborne Warning and Control System (AWACS) aircraft stationed at Tinker Air Force Base in Oklahoma City and preserve the 513th Air Control Group (ACG). This amendment comes after the United States Air Force announced force structure changes in March that would bring down the total number of AWACS aircraft from 27 to 20 at Tinker, and deactivate the Reserve 513th ACG. The amendment was adopted by voice vote earlier today during committee consideration of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year 2015 and is expected to pass along with other provisions later this evening. Cole is a member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, and Bridenstine is a member of the Armed Services Committee, where the amendment was first introduced. “I commend Congressman Bridenstine for championing the E-3 mission and people of the 513th, and also ensuring that upgrades for the C-130 aircraft will be implemented” said Cole. “Because of the tireless work of my Oklahoma colleague and with the support of Armed Services Chairman Buck McKeon, there is greater hope for the future of our military, particularly for the many individuals employed at Tinker. Not only are his efforts a victory for the Fourth District of Oklahoma, but it’s a real achievement that will keep our military strong. “There is still work ahead in order for these critical changes to be realized and implemented, including the necessary passage of NDAA in both chambers, cooperation by the Administration and appropriating funds for its implementation. While this is just the beginning, I remain optimistic that we can keep up the momentum, and I commend Congressman Bridenstine for leading that effort.” The E-3 AWACS aircraft is a four-engine modified Boeing 707 airframe which carries airborne radar and provides all-altitude control of theater aircraft and threat warning assessment. There are currently 31 U.S. AWACS aircraft in the U.S. Air Force. ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
05.01.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Eric Cantor (VA-7) today released the following statement applauding legislation to cut waste and save taxpayer money on House operations: "This Congress, House Republicans have focused on smaller government, less spending, and more transparency. This is a government by the people, for the people. We believe that being good stewards of tax dollars means spending less and providing more information on how federal resources are spent. House Republicans have adopted policies to save the American people $594 million and reduce spending on House operations by nearly 14%. Under this bill, we maintain the pay freeze on member salaries and increase funding for our U.S. Capitol Police. This legislation also directs the Clerk of the House, the Librarian of Congress, and the Public Printer to work together to make available bulk data downloads of bill statuses by the beginning of the next Congress. Providing bulk access to legislative information is an essential part of running an open government. I look forward to the completion of this project. I thank Chairman Hal Rogers, Subcommittee Chairman Tom Cole, and the entire Appropriations Committee for their work on this legislation." ###Link to original release from Majority Leader Eric Cantor
05.01.2014	Washington, D.C. – The U.S. House today approved the fiscal year 2015 Legislative Branch Appropriations bill (H.R. 4487), to provide annual funding for the offices of Members of the House of Representatives, the support agencies of Congress (including security), services for visitors, and Capitol operations and maintenance. The bill was approved on a vote of 402-14. The total provided for the House and joint operations, excluding Senate-only items, is $3.3 billion. This is the same as the fiscal year 2014 level, and it is $122.5 million below the President’s request. In all, funding for the House of Representatives has been reduced by 14% since Republicans gained its control in January 2011. The legislation also includes a provision to freeze the pay of Members of Congress, preventing any pay increases in fiscal year 2015. A freeze on the salaries of Representatives has been in place since 2010. “I’m pleased the House has passed this bill that allows the House of Representatives to lead by example – to tighten our belts at a time when American families and government agencies are asked to do the same thing,” Chairman Hal Rogers said. “Yet at the same time, the bill preserves and maintains this hallowed edifice that houses our great democracy, supports the services that keep the Congress working, and allows thousands of visitors to witness democracy in action in an accessible and safe way.” “After multiple hearings and meetings with agency heads who brought a variety of concerns before our Subcommittee, I am pleased that the Legislative Branch funding bill passed the House today. For every American and hundreds of millions of others across the globe, our nation’s Capitol complex is a symbol of freedom and democracy – an image that requires creative and careful upkeep. Not only does the bill show that lawmakers can craft legislation in a bipartisan manner, but it also encourages fiscal responsibility right here on the Capitol grounds and does so while still adequately funding the agencies’ priorities and providing for their invaluable services,” said Subcommittee Chairman Tom Cole. For a list of approved amendments to H.R. 4487, click here. For the text of the bill, click here. For the bill report, click here. ###Contact: Jennifer Hing (202) 225-2771 (Appropriations)Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165 (Cole) Link to original release from the House Committee on Appropriations
04.24.2014	Mrs. Obama to Present Nation’s Highest Honor for Museums and Libraries Washington, D.C. – The Institute of Museum and Library Services today announced the recipients of the 2014 National Medal for Museum and Library Service. The National Medal is the nation’s highest honor given to museums and libraries for service to the community. In its 20th anniversary year, the medals program celebrates excellent institutions that have made a significant impact on individuals, families, and communities across the nation. The award will be presented by First Lady Michelle Obama at the White House on May 8. These ten honorees exemplify the nation’s great diversity of libraries and museums and include a natural history museum, a children’s museum, a natural sciences museum, an aquarium, a botanic garden, public library systems, and a book center, hailing from ten states. The 2014 winners of the National Medal for Museum and Library Service are: • Brooklyn Botanic Garden, Brooklyn, N.Y. • Chicago Public Library, Chicago, Ill. • Las Vegas-Clark County Library District, Las Vegas, Nev. • Mid-Continent Public Library, Independence, Mo. • Mystic Aquarium, Mystic, Conn. • North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences, Raleigh, N.C. • Octavia Fellin Public Library, Gallup, N.M.• Sam Noble Oklahoma Museum of Natural History, Norman, Okla. • The Children's Museum of Indianapolis, Indianapolis, Ind. • Yiddish Book Center, Amherst, Mass. “Congratulations to the 2014 winners of the National Medal for Museum and Library Service. From programs that foster passion for science, literature and cultural heritage, to critical 21st century skills training for improved educational outcomes and workforce readiness, the services and programs of these institutions truly do make a difference,” said Susan H. Hildreth, director of the Institute of Museum and Library Services. “We thank each of this year’s medal recipients for their innovation and their dedication to serving their communities.” Winners of the National Medal were selected from nationwide nominations of institutions that demonstrate innovative approaches to public service, exceeding the expected levels of community outreach. After the ceremony, StoryCorps – a national nonprofit dedicated to recording, preserving, and sharing the stories of Americans – will visit each institution to document stories from the communities about the winning institutions. Congratulations to this year's finalists as well! Celebrating 20 Years This year, IMLS celebrates the 20th anniversary of the National Medal for Museum and Library Service. For the past two decades, the National Medal has honored outstanding institutions that make significant and exceptional contributions to their communities. Including 2014 winners, 142 institutions have received this honor. About the Institute of Museum and Library Services The Institute of Museum and Library Services is the primary source of federal support for the nation’s 123,000 libraries and 17,500 museums. Our mission is to inspire libraries and museums to advance innovation, lifelong learning, and cultural and civic engagement. Our grant making, policy development, and research help libraries and museums deliver valuable services that make it possible for communities and individuals to thrive. 9. Sam Noble Oklahoma Museum of Natural History The Sam Noble Museum has deep roots in Oklahoma. It began building collections in 1899 and has become one of the leading university-based natural history museums in the world, housing more than 10 million objects, specimens and artifacts. The museum provides entertaining and life-changing programs to young people, seniors, Native Americans, the disadvantaged, and all people of Oklahoma. One such program, ExplorOlogy, represents a major science outreach component of the museum’s education department, providing summer field expeditions, outreach visits to schools and teacher professional development workshops. “The program gave me the stepping stones to be what I want to be in life and to follow my passion,” said ExplorOlogy participant, Ernesto Vargas. “In some ways, it is indescribable because it has made an impact on my life that I’ll never forget.” Vargas, now a student at the University of Chicago majoring in geology and paleontology, was selected by the Sam Noble Museum to travel to Washington and share the impact the museum has had on his life during the May 8 celebration. “The people of Oklahoma rallied together to save the original museum from destruction,” said Sam Noble Oklahoma Museum of Natural History museum director, Michael Mares. “Ever since, their support has made it possible for the museum to work with them in providing unique programs that benefit young people from across Oklahoma, as well as adults. This medal is for all Oklahomans.” Praise for Sam Noble Oklahoma Museum of Natural History: “Many congratulations to the fine team at the Sam Noble Oklahoma Museum of Natural History for this incredible achievement. This accomplishment would not be possible without the dedicated work of numerous individuals who laid the groundwork and the commitment of those who continue to carry out the museum's educational vision. Our communities are better because of the learning outlet provided by the museum, and our state couldn’t be prouder.”– U.S. Rep. Tom Cole (OK) ###Contact:Aliza Bran (202) 414-0798 (IMLS for Sam Noble)Adrienne Lee (202) 414-0788 (IMLS)Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165 (Cole)Link to original release from the Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS)
04.17.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) remembered the tragedy of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building bombing in Oklahoma City. “Even after 19 years, Oklahomans still deeply mourn the 168 lives taken in the Oklahoma City bombing,” said Congressman Cole. “We will never forget the heartbreaking impact the tragedy had on our state and the way communities across the nation reached out to comfort us. Today we remember the individuals whose days were cut short, but we also remember the many family members and friends they left behind and pray for continued healing. We also remain grateful to the first responders, whose sacrifice and devotion helped us work through a nightmare.” ###
04.10.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the passing of Edmond Harjo. A member of the Seminole Nation of Oklahoma, Harjo was one of the last surviving Native American code talkers. “I was deeply grieved to hear about the loss of a true military hero and inspirational figure to generations of Native Americans,” said Cole. “During the Congressional Gold Medal ceremony last year that honored code talkers from 33 tribes, I had the opportunity to meet Edmond Harjo and participate in the ceremony that recognized his bravery during World War II. Because he took great pride in his unique heritage, Harjo and other Native American soldiers were able to encrypt and transfer wartime messages and ultimately prevent highly-sensitive information from being intercepted by the enemy. His service and bravery will surely live on.” ###
04.10.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House passed the Republican budget blueprint for fiscal year 2015 by a vote of 219-205. This plan presented by the House Budget Committee and Chairman Paul Ryan would cut $5.1 trillion in spending, repeal Obamacare and balance the budget in 10 years. “Over the last four consecutive years, House Republicans have the led the way in finding long-term solutions that would actually deal with our massive debt and improve our economic outlook,” said Cole. “This year, I’m proud that we again identified reforms that would change our debt trajectory, grow the economy and create jobs. Most importantly, the Republican budget would achieve balance in 10 years. Neither the Administration nor the Democratic Senate has introduced legislation that would balance the budget in 10 years, 20 years or ever for that matter. “While there is still room for reform, the Republican budget should encourage lawmakers on both sides of the aisle and the Administration to acknowledge that our financial problems are very real and must be addressed. With more than $17 trillion in debt, it is critical that we work together in order to provide hope of a better future for our children and grandchildren.” ###
04.09.2014	Holds the line on spending for House offices, freezes pay for Members of Congress Washington, D.C. – The House Appropriations Committee today approved the fiscal year 2015 Legislative Branch Appropriations bill, to provide annual funding for the offices of Members of the House of Representatives, the support agencies of Congress (including security), services for visitors, and Capitol operations and maintenance. The next move for the bill will be to head to the House floor for consideration. The total included for the House and joint operations, excluding Senate-only items, is $3.3 billion. This is the same as the fiscal year 2014 level, and it is $122.5 million below the President’s request. In all, funding for the House of Representatives has been reduced by 14% since Republicans gained its control in January 2011. The legislation also includes a provision to freeze the pay of Members of Congress, preventing any pay increases in fiscal year 2015. A freeze on the salaries of Representatives has been in place since 2010. “This bill preserves and maintains this hallowed edifice that houses our great democracy, supports the services that keep the Congress working, allows thousands of visitors to witness democracy in action in an accessible and safe way.’ Chairman Rogers said. “Just as importantly, it also adheres to the same fiscal goals we have set for each and every program and agency across the federal government – and that means tightening our belts and making do with what we have.” “As a symbol of freedom and democracy for every American and hundreds of millions of others around the globe, the Capitol complex of the United States represents our nation's deepest values and performs many of its most important governmental functions. As such, its majestic buildings and institutions must be pristine in their appearance, functional in their operation, and open to all to visit in safety and security. This bill achieves these objectives in both an effective and efficient manner, and has done so in a genuinely bipartisan, inclusive and deliberative fashion," Congressman Tom Cole, Legislative Branch Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman, stated. There were no adopted amendments to the bill in mark up today. The bill was approved by the full committee on a voice vote. For the text of the bill, click here. For the bill report, click here. ###Contact: Jennifer Hing (202) 225-2771 (Appropriations)
04.03.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement today after President Barack Obama signed into law the Gabriella Miller Kids First Research Act. Cole coauthored the bill along with Congressmen Gregg Harper (MS-03) and Peter Welch (VT). The legislation redirects taxpayer dollars from political party conventions and instead uses those funds to further pediatric disease research. Kids First originated in the House and passed with strong bipartisan support in December. The following month, Senators Tim Kaine (VA), Mark Warner (VA) and Orrin Hatch (UT) announced their support for a companion bill and their desire to lead efforts for its passage. Last month, the Senate version of the bill also passed with strong support and was sent to the president’s desk for consideration. “I am pleased that President Obama recognized the value of the Gabriella Miller Kids First Research Act and acted quickly to sign it into law,” said Cole. “During my time serving as chief of staff at the Republican National Committee, I saw firsthand that political party conventions can be easily funded by private sources alone rather than wasting taxpayer dollars. This new law will now take that wasted money and give it real purpose at the National Institutes of Health (NIH). It will allow NIH researchers to advance their study of pediatric diseases and potentially discover new treatments and cures that could change and save lives. “Thank you to Majority Leader Eric Cantor for bringing up one of my previous legislative efforts to eliminate funding for party conventions and combining it with Congressman Harper’s efforts to increase funding for pediatric disease research. The result is not only fiscally-responsible but truly humanitarian.” Read more about Gabriella Miller and the legislation here. ### Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
04.03.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) praised the Department of Interior after it was announced that the first quarterly transfer of funds to the Cobell Education Scholarship Fund will begin this week. As a part of this transfer, $580,000 will be designated toward the American Indian College Fund to benefit American Indian and Alaska Native students seeking post-secondary education and training. The scholarship fund was established as part of the settlement in Cobell vs. Salazar, a class action lawsuit that spanned 14 years and sought an accounting of mismanaged Native American trust accounts held by the United States. Terms of the settlement were finalized by passage of the Claims Resolution Act of 2010 in both chambers and the president signing the legislation into law in December 2010. “Today provides hope of a better, brighter future for Native American students,” said Cole. “Without the dedicated leadership of those who negotiated the Cobell agreement at the Interior Department, lawmakers on both sides of the aisle who passed legislation to enact it and the president who signed the bill into law, this day would not have been possible. “Many thanks to former Secretary Ken Salazar and Deputy Secretary David Hayes for their creative leadership that led to the addition of the scholarship fund as a component of the settlement. Beyond their tenure, we have also seen the leadership of Secretary Sally Jewell and Deputy Secretary Mike Connor, who have quickly and effectively implemented the terms of the settlement. Native Americans will surely feel the benefits of this new assistance for furthering education, expanding job opportunities and promoting success within Indian Country for many generations to come.” ###
04.02.2014	Holds the line on spending for House offices, freezes pay for Members of Congress Washington, D.C. – The House Appropriations Committee today released the fiscal year 2015 Legislative Branch Appropriations bill, which will be considered in subcommittee tomorrow. The bill provides annual funding for the offices of Members of the House of Representatives, the support agencies of Congress (including security), services for visitors, and Capitol operations and maintenance. The total included for the House and joint operations, excluding Senate-only items, is $3.3 billion. This is the same as the fiscal year 2014 level, and it is $122.5 million below the President’s request. In all, funding for the House of Representatives has been reduced by 14% since Republicans gained its control in January 2011. The legislation also includes a provision to freeze the pay of Members of Congress, preventing any pay increases in fiscal year 2015. A freeze on the salaries of Representatives has been in place since 2010. “The House will continue to lead by example and hold the line on spending. Even with the many strides we’ve made in the last few years in reducing discretionary budgets, we must remain vigilant and keep a close eye on each and every tax dollar,” House Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers said. “Yet, we also have a responsibility to maintain important government operations, such as those that occur in our Nation’s Capitol. This bill will help ensure the efficiency, safety, and openness of our institution for those who serve here and for those who travel from across the country to visit every day.” Congressman Tom Cole, Legislative Branch Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman, stated, "As a symbol of freedom and democracy for every American and hundreds of millions of others around the globe, the Capitol complex of the United States represents our nation's deepest values and performs many of its most important governmental functions. As such, its majestic buildings and institutions must be pristine in their appearance, functional in their operation, and open to all to visit in safety and security. This bill achieves these objectives in both an effective and efficient manner, and has done so in a genuinely bipartisan, inclusive and deliberative fashion." Bill Summary: House Operations – The bill contains $1.2 billion to fund the operations of the House – the same as fiscal year 2014. This account provides funding for Members’ Representational Allowances (MRAs), leadership, Member, and committee office expenses, as well as operating costs for Officers of the House. The legislation also includes a funding prohibition preventing Representatives and Senators from receiving a pay increase in fiscal year 2015. By holding the line on funding and by making the most out of existing levels, the bill will set an example of fiscal responsibility and help Congress do its part to lower the nation’s deficit. Capitol Police – The bill funds the Capitol Police at $347 million, an increase of $9.5 million above the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. This funding will allow officers and civilian workers to provide critical safety and security functions for all Members, staff, and visitors of the Capitol Complex. The funding will also help maintain and improve public access to the Capitol and its office buildings. Architect of the Capitol (AoC) – The legislation provides $488.6 million for the AoC, which is $40.5 million below the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. The AoC requires less funding for fiscal year 2015, as one-time construction costs included in previous years’ budgets are no longer necessary. With the funding provided, the AoC will prioritize essential projects that promote the safety and health of those who visit and work in the Capitol Complex, and will continue to complete long-deferred maintenance projects. The bill also includes $21 million in funding for the third and final phase of the Capitol Dome restoration project. Library of Congress (LoC) – The legislation provides $59.9 million for the Library of Congress, an increase of $15.9 million above the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. This funding will allow the Library to continue its important functions in support of Congress, as well as its many services for the public. The bill will also provide for the development of online classroom services for students studying Congress and civic participation, and will help reduce claims backlog and processing time for copyright registrations. Government Accountability Office (GAO) – The bill contains $519.6 million in funding for the GAO, an increase of $14.2 million above the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. This funding will bolster GAO’s critical oversight work – providing Congress with accurate, nonpartisan reporting of federal programs and tracking of how taxpayer dollars are spent. Government Printing Office (GPO) – The legislation includes $122 million for GPO, an increase of $3.2 million above the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. The legislation maintains the previous year’s level for printing and binding services, and implements limitations on delivery of documents to individual Member offices in order to reduce excess costs. Additional funds are provided for technology infrastructure and facilities upgrades to enable more efficient and cost-effective services. For the complete text of the subcommittee draft of the FY 2015 Legislative Branch Appropriations bill, click here. ### Contact: Jennifer Hing (202) 225-2771 (Appropriations)
04.01.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House Budget Committee and Chairman Paul Ryan released “The Path to Prosperity: A Responsible, Balanced Budget” for fiscal year 2015. This budget blueprint would cut $5.1 trillion in spending, repeal Obamacare and balance the budget in 10 years. "In order to overcome our nation’s serious economic challenges, we must have a real plan with real reforms that address our more than $17 trillion of debt,” said Cole. “Over the last four consecutive years, the Budget Committee led by Chairman Ryan has offered real solutions that achieve balance without raising taxes, strengthen health and retirement programs, address wasteful entitlement spending and reform the tax code. The budget unveiled today again offers reforms that would put our country back on fiscally firm footing and balance the budget in 10 years. Neither the Administration nor the Democratic Senate has brought up legislation that would balance the budget in 10 years, 20 years or ever. “We can get the national debt under control and expand opportunity for hardworking Americans, but we cannot do it alone. House Republicans have again shown that we are willing to find the long-term reforms that positively change the trajectory of our debt, grow the economy and create jobs. In the days ahead, it is critical that both sides work together and find common ground, so we can provide hope of a better future for our children and grandchildren.” ###
03.26.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the White House announced that it would extend the enrollment deadline for healthcare signups. According to the announcement on Tuesday evening, applicants who have had problems enrolling on the website will be given a grace period of two to three more weeks to complete their enrollment. “With yet another delay of the Affordable Care Act, the Administration is making another attempt to postpone the inevitable failure of the law,” said Cole. “Since its inception, the president’s healthcare law has rightly been viewed as a public policy failure that doesn’t effectively address the problems in our nation’s healthcare system. Now even the Administration recognizes that the enrollment website, which was never ready for primetime, is preventing the same people it purports to help. I’m disappointed that the president continues to pick and choose which portions of his own law he will implement and enforce without consulting and seeking approval from Congress.” ###
03.25.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the Supreme Court’s oral argument, Sebelius, Sec. of HHS v. Hobby Stores, Inc. “During our country’s beginnings, our founders recognized the importance of establishing, protecting and preserving certain rights for all Americans,” said Cole. “For generations, these unique liberties in our Bill of Rights have been the bedrock of our country and given assurance and peace of mind to citizens holding a variety of opinions and beliefs. But the president’s healthcare law jeopardizes our foundational freedom of religion by requiring business to offer health plans that cover contraceptives, even if business owners consider the use of birth control or abortifacients morally objectionable or violating their religious convictions. “Hobby Lobby has long been known in Oklahoma and across the country for incorporating faith when running its many stores and businesses. For that reason, the Green family has always been respected in their community and loved by their many employees. Due to the contraceptive mandate, this family is now faced with a choice between violating the law or abandoning their deeply-held religious convictions. This is a choice they never should be forced to make. “Today we watched the Green family stand not only for the preservation of religious liberty in their faith-based business but also for the preservation of that freedom for all Americans. And they didn’t stand alone. As the Court deliberates, I hope they recognize that this decision was already answered years ago when our forefathers penned the first line in the Bill of Rights.” ###
03.12.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) highlighted the need for President Obama to approve TransCanada’s construction application for the Keystone XL pipeline. Today marks 2,000 days since the application was first submitted. If approved, the project would create around 42,100 jobs in America during construction. “The fact that we are still waiting for an answer from the president about the Keystone pipeline project is inexcusable,” said Cole. “After 2,000 days of radio silence from the president and considering that State Department studies reveal no harmful impact on the environment from construction, it’s time for the president to approve this project. It would clearly be beneficial for our domestic energy supply, create much-needed jobs for hardworking Americans and boost economic growth. “Not only is the project a wise investment in the future of North American energy production and job creation, but it also strengthens our national security by reducing dependence on foreign oil. The White House must acknowledge the value of the Keystone project and approve its construction,” concluded Cole. ###
03.12.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), a member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, released the following statement after the United States Air Force announced force structure changes in light of the president’s fiscal year 2015 budget proposal. In order to meet the funding levels laid out in the president’s budget proposal, the Air Force announced it would need to remove from its inventory nearly 500 aircraft in the next five years from both the active and reserve. These reductions would include the inactivation of seven Reserve AWACS also known as E-3 Sentry aircraft stationed at Tinker Air Force Base in Oklahoma City. “I am disappointed that the president’s budget proposal cuts aircraft that are high demand assets in protecting our nation,” said Cole. “AWACS aircraft have been dispatched by NATO to fly over Poland and Romania to monitor the crisis in the Ukraine, stressing the need for more reconnaissance capability rather than less in this dangerous world. With this budget, our nation is taking on more risk than in previous years, and our ability to respond effectively and immediately to our enemies could be diminished, unless the president works with Congress to make tough decisions in the months ahead. “Commander-in-Chief is arguably the most important role played by each and every president that has served our country. Though the nature of threats in our world during America’s more than 237-year history have changed over time, that hasn’t made and shouldn’t make the responsibility of defending our nation any lighter. Even when the threat seems less immediate or involves defending our allies, we must keep our military strong and protect our ability to respond, regardless of how obvious or dangerous threats appear,” concluded Cole. ###Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
03.12.2014	Washington, D.C. – The office of Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) is now accepting entries for the annual Congressional Art Competition. Each spring, the U.S. House of Representatives sponsors An Artistic Discovery, a nationwide competition for high school students interested in the arts and looking for an opportunity to showcase their creativity. The annual contest recognizes and encourages artistic talent of young constituents across the nation, including those living in Oklahoma’s Fourth Congressional District. The winner’s artwork is displayed for one year in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. In addition, the winning prize includes travel to Washington with a guest for a reception, workshop and award presentation, courtesy of Southwest Airlines. As the winner, he or she may also be eligible to win a yearly $3,000 scholarship to the Savannah College of Art and Design. All entries are accepted at one of Congressman Cole’s district offices by 5 p.m. on April 23, 2014. They can be received at the following locations:Norman Office 2424 Springer Drive, Suite 201 (405) 329-6500Lawton Office 711 SW D Avenue, Suite 201 (580) 357-2131Ada Office 100 E. 13th Street, Suite 213 (580) 436-5475Ardmore Chamber of Commerce 410 West Main (580) 223-7765 For more information about the competition, please contact Kaylee Brace at (405) 329-6500. ###
03.11.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the United States Senate passed the Gabriella Miller Kids First Research Act. The bill, which originated in the House, will now be sent to President Obama to consider signing into law. Passed by the House with strong bipartisan support in December and coauthored by Congressmen Tom Cole (OK-04), Gregg Harper (MS-03) and Peter Welch (VT), this legislation redirects taxpayer dollars from political party conventions and instead uses funds for pediatric disease research. “I am pleased that the upper chamber voted in support of legislation that shifts taxpayer dollars away from needlessly funding political party conventions and into valuable pediatric disease research,” said Cole. “As a former chief of staff at the Republican National Committee, I know firsthand that political party conventions can be funded easily by private sources alone. “The Gabriella Miller Kids First Research Act takes this money that we know is currently being wasted and gives it real purpose at the National Institutes of Health (NIH). It allows NIH researchers to advance their study of pediatric diseases, including cancer and autism, and potentially discover new treatments and cures. “Today’s vote in the Senate is a true victory for American taxpayers, but it’s also a victory for children suffering from diseases. I encourage President Obama to be a part of the solution for furthering pediatric disease research by signing this important, fiscally-responsible legislation into law.” ###
03.11.2014	Washington, D.C. -- House Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-VA) today released the following statement applauding Senate passage of the Gabriella Miller Kids First Research Act. Having passed both chambers of Congress, this bill will now be sent to the President's desk to be signed into law: “So often everyone is focused on what Congress cannot accomplish that we overlook the good that can be done when both parties work together. One courageous young girl, Gabriella Miller, inspired bipartisan action to help research, treat, and cure pediatric diseases and disorders. When people would remark that Gabriella was wise beyond her years, she would tell them that having a brain tumor means you have to grow up real fast. And so a 10-year-old was girl battling for more pediatric research at the same time she battled for her life. “Ellyn and Mark Miller have been steadfast in their desire to increase support for pediatric research on behalf of their daughter, and today is a major victory for them and this cause. I also know the Millers know this is but a first step, and I look forward to continuing to work with them to build more support to help these kids. “Representative Gregg Harper was the champion for this effort in the House, and I know he and his son Livingston are celebrating their achievement on behalf of kids with diseases and disorders. Representative Tom Cole provided the idea on how to fund the support, and Representative Peter Welch gave it the bipartisan boost it needed. Senator Tim Kaine joined this effort and got this across the finish line in the Senate. Working with my colleague from Virginia on this was a tremendous pleasure, and I am thankful for his leadership and bipartisan efforts for this cause. Senators Mitch McConnell and Orrin Hatch were instrumental in getting this done from the start. “Putting pediatric research over politics was the entire point of this bill, and we have achieved that in more ways than one. Gabriella Miller’s amazing spirit stirred the Capitol into action, and I hope it continues to do so for years to come. “In the words of Gabriella Miller: ‘There could be a lot, a lot, a lot of awareness at one time, and then after a while, it just dies off. But I would prefer there be a little awareness out there and it be constant, forever and ever and ever, and that will build up. It’s like sugar, sugar you go up like this and you go down like this, you have protein, you go up only halfway and you’re steady through the entire day. And that’s what we need.’” ### Contact: Rory Cooper, Megan Whittemore (202) 225-4000
03.11.2014	Washington D.C. - House Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy (CA-23) released the following statement on Senate passage of the Gabriella Miller Kids First Research Act (H.R. 2019): “Senate passage of the Gabriella Miller Kids First Research Act is truly welcome news. As a result of this overwhelmingly bipartisan legislation, millions of dollars will now be used to pioneer new research in an effort to develop treatments and cures for pediatric disorders and diseases. There have been many critical breakthroughs in pediatric medical research over the past few years, but more can and must be done. I thank my good friends Leader Eric Cantor (VA-07), Congressman Greg Harper (MS-3) and Tom Cole (OK-4) for their hard work and dedication toward this important cause. “Additionally, I applaud Leader Harry Reid for actually putting a House-passed bill on the Senate floor for a vote. There are nearly two hundred House-passed bills, many of them bipartisan, that Leader Reid has refused to take up in the Senate. It is my hope that today marks a new beginning and not an exception to what seemingly is his rule.” ### Contact: Mike Long, Matt Sparks (202) 225-0197
03.06.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) presided over several budget hearings this week as Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch. After the release of President Obama’s fiscal year 2015 budget, Chairman Cole and subcommittee members gained insight about the funding priorities of the various agencies under the subcommittee’s jurisdiction. On Tuesday, the subcommittee heard from witnesses representing the Government Printing Office (GPO), Architect of the Capitol (AOC) and Congressional Budget Office (CBO). On Wednesday, witnesses from the Library of Congress and Government Accountability Office (GAO) offered their testimonies. This morning, the subcommittee completed its final hearing of the week with witnesses who oversee operations in the House of Representatives. “Along with my fellow subcommittee members, I am pleased by the insight gained this week in the Legislative Branch Subcommittee,” said Chairman Cole. “As we continue exploring the funding requests of the various agencies in and around the Capitol Complex, I remain optimistic that we can find responsible ways to use taxpayer dollars and still adequately fund the agencies’ priorities and provide for their invaluable services.” To read Chairman Cole’s opening statements, view video footage or for a list of witnesses and their testimonies, click the hearing titles linked below.Government Printing OfficeArchitect of the CapitolCongressional Budget OfficeLibrary of CongressGovernment Accountability OfficeHouse of Representatives ###
03.06.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after supporting the SIMPLE Fairness Act (H.R. 4118). This legislation, which passed the House by a vote of 250-160, would lift the mandate requiring individuals to purchase health insurance through the end of the year. “Even though businesses have been excused yet again from providing health coverage, individuals are still required to purchase unaffordable insurance under the president’s so-called Affordable Care Act,” said Cole. “The SIMPLE Fairness Act provides an opportunity for the president to right this unfair expectation of families and individuals and relieve the expensive burden of purchasing insurance. Not only is the president’s healthcare law unfair to our nation’s families, but it continues to show the president’s inability to lead and make good on his promises.” The Congressman also responded after the White House announced a policy extension allowing individuals to keep insurance plans that would otherwise be canceled under the law. Under this latest announcement, individuals can continue renewing their plans through 2016 and likely maintain coverage into 2017. “The latest announcement is confirmation that Obamacare isn’t working. With each announcement, we have seen an administration scrambling to salvage a broken law and shield the country from realizing its failure.” ###
02.26.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed two bills, during its “Stop Government Abuse” legislative week, that would bring greater accountability and prevent abuse within the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The Protecting Taxpayers from Intrusive IRS Requests Act (H.R. 2531) protects the first amendment rights of taxpayers by preventing the IRS from asking any questions about religious, political or social beliefs. In addition, the Stop Targeting of Political Beliefs by the IRS Act of 2014 (H.R. 3865) delays the Department of Treasury and IRS from completing and imposing their proposed 501(c)(4) regulations that would limit first amendment rights. “I am pleased that the House acted to protect the first amendment rights of all taxpayers by supporting measures to keep the IRS accountable,” said Cole. “Regardless of political affiliation, all Americans have a reasonable expectation that their freedom of speech and religion shall be protected. Since it was first discovered that the IRS was purposefully targeting and scrutinizing some conservative and religious groups, America has watched the IRS scandal unfold while House committees have investigated and looked for ways to prevent repeat situations. Presenting and passing this legislation sends a clear message to the Administration that abuse of power and unfair scrutiny will not be tolerated." ###
02.25.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), a member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, released the following statement after Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel revealed cuts to the Department of Defense in President Obama’s budget for fiscal year 2015. Among many of the proposed changes, the Army would see a reduction from 522,000 soldiers to between 450,000 and 490,000; the Army National Guard would see a reduction from 355,000 to 335,000 by 2017. “While I have great respect for Secretary Hagel and his distinguished service to our country in uniform and in the Senate, I cannot support the fiscal year 2015 budget that he has presented on behalf of the Obama Administration,” said Cole. “Because the president has been unwilling to lead in the area of entitlement reform, he has chosen to reach his budgetary objectives by slashing defense spending. If enacted, the president’s proposal would place America and the men and women who serve it in uniform at great risk in the years ahead. “No amount of technology or restructuring can compensate for the massive hole the president intends to make in our nation's military. Under the Administration’s proposed military budget, America’s military would experience the greatest downsizing since World War II and no longer be able to sustain prolonged stability operations. Expecting that the world is safe enough to justify such deep reductions shows just how little the president understands military deterrence and the strategic importance of a robust armed forces. “Whether we chose to be or not, America is the ‘cop on the beat’ around the world. The strength of our presence and military readiness speaks to both our enemies and allies. When our military is weak, our nation is seen as a target by our enemies and less stable or dependable to our allies. Making our military weaker inevitably makes the world more dangerous and runs the risk of increasing the number and severity of conflicts around the globe. “With these proposed cuts to our military, the president would leave American militarily weaker than he found it. His proposal would limit the options available to his successors and increase the dangers we face as a nation. In the months ahead, I hope Congress chooses to reject the president’s recommended defense budget by maintaining our force levels and keeping faith with the members of our armed forces and their families,” concluded Cole. ###Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165
02.24.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) recently joined five House members in visiting Israel, where the group met with senior Israeli and Palestinian leaders. Cole had the opportunity to learn more about the U.S.-Israeli relationship, a valuable partnership with America’s closest friend in the region. The trip was sponsored by the American Israel Educational Foundation (AIEF)—a charity affiliated with the American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC), funded privately by American citizens and organized in full compliance with House Ethics rules. AIEF seminars in Israel provide a balanced, firsthand look into the foreign policy challenges facing the United States and countries in the Middle East. “Israelis are proven experts in fighting terrorism and valuable teachers for improving our nation’s own strategies and processes,” said Cole. “We should be inspired by the way Israel has handled trials and hardships, established democracy, embraced freedom and protected its people. “Israel is one of America’s most important and loyal friends. During times of unrest and tension in the Middle East, it is imperative that we continue to face threats together, support each other and collaborate when and where possible.” ###
02.21.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after it was revealed that the president’s annual budget blueprint will abandon his previous efforts to cut spending and reform entitlements. In particular, the president will ignore changes to cost-of-living increases in Social Security and other programs that he previously recommended with Republican support. The president’s budget for fiscal year 2015 is set to be released on March 4. “As a member of the House Budget Committee, I am deeply disappointed that President Obama has chosen to release a budget that ignores our nation’s sobering fiscal reality and abandons his own promises,” said Cole. “As recently as last year the president indicated a willingness to at least look at entitlement reform and put real ideas on the table. For some inexplicable reason, he has now submitted a budget that abandons all responsibility and simply asks for even more money to spend on his pet projects. “Seldom have I seen a president so blatantly disregard his official responsibilities and fail to address or acknowledge the devastating effects of our ongoing deficits. Instead this president seems content to fiddle while America burns,” concluded Cole. ###
02.12.2014	Washington, D.C. — Today the Oklahoma Delegation, including U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe, (R-Okla.), Reps. James Lankford (R-OK-5), Tom Cole (R-OK-4), Frank Lucas (R-OK-3), Jim Bridenstine (R-OK-1) and Markwayne Mullin (R-OK-2), released the following statements after the U.S. Army Clemency and Parole Board granted parole to Edmond, Okla. resident, 1st Lt. Michael Behenna: "These past five years have been challenging and difficult for Michael and his loved ones, and I am glad to learn that Michael will soon be returning home to Oklahoma and be reunited with his family,” said Inhofe. “Along this journey, the Oklahoma delegation has fought to ensure Michael's rights as a service member to a fair trial, appeal and parole process were protected. Ultimately, the board's latest decision would not have been possible without the dedication and devotion of the Behenna family, their community and friends who remained vigilant throughout the process." “I am incredibly relieved that the Behenna Family will finally be reunited with their son, Michael, after more than five years apart,” said Congressman Lankford. “Vicki and Scott Behenna have worked tirelessly to support their son. My staff and I have worked closely with the Army and members of the Oklahoma congressional delegation to ensure that we supported Michael and his family through the long, legal process. I will continue to lift them in my prayers as they move forward with the next chapter of their lives.” “Today’s news was a long time coming, but it now brings much-needed relief and joy for Michael Behenna, his family and his friends,” said Congressman Cole. "The determination and commitment of numerous individuals, including Michael’s mother Vicki and other family members, have truly made this day possible, and we all join in celebrating Michael’s upcoming return to Oklahoma.” “I’m very pleased to hear 1st Lt. Michael Behenna has finally won parole and will be returning to his family in Oklahoma,” said Congressman Frank Lucas. “Many family and friends have fought hard on his behalf over the past several years, and I am glad to see this season finally coming to a close for Michael and his supporters. I am forever grateful for the service he has given to our country and wish him only the best.” “This is great news for Michael Behenna and his family,” said Congressman Bridenstine. "I know they have worked hard toward this day, and we wish them the best.” “As a country, we owe a great deal to our service men and women like Lt. Michael Behenna who live a life of risk so we can live a life of peace,” said Congressman Mullin. "We can never fully understand the circumstances they encounter every day to secure our freedom. Lt. Behenna bravely served his country and I am pleased to learn that he has been granted parole.” Since Behenna’s conviction in 2009, the Oklahoma delegation has united in efforts on behalf of 1st Lt. Behenna and the family by sending letters of support to the U.S. Disciplinary Barracks and the U.S. Army Clemency and Parole Board asking for careful consideration of the facts and circumstances surrounding the case, as well as the behavior and progress Behenna made during incarceration. ###To view the original release, click here.Contact:Donelle Harder, Jacob Heisten (202) 224-4721 (Inhofe) Kelly Ferguson (202) 225-2132 (Lankford)Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165 (Cole) Laramie Adams (202) 225-5565 (Lucas) Sheryl Kaufman (202) 225-2211 (Bridenstine) Ashley Kehl (202) 225-2701 (Mullin)
02.11.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House voted on legislation that would raise the debt ceiling without addressing fiscal policy or federal spending. Cole opposed the legislation today that passed the House by a vote of 221-201. “Over the course of my time in Congress, I have been willing to work with the president and my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to protect the full faith and credit of the United States,” said Cole. “In previous instances, however, any changes to the debt ceiling have been accompanied by meaningful reforms to spending or contributed to ongoing economic recovery efforts. Support for this legislation would do neither. Instead, it would allow the federal government to rack up more debt without reforming the drivers of our debt. That’s not acceptable. “Every negotiation requires a negotiating partner, but the president has remained intransigent and refused to find commonsense solutions. I have shown time and again that I am willing to work in a bipartisan manner to solve our nation’s most pressing economic problems, and I will continue to do so. The legislation presented today is not that solution.” ###
01.29.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) praised today’s passage of the Agricultural Act of 2014. It is the final product of the joint conference committee that reconciled differences between the farm bills of the House and Senate. By repealing or making changes to various programs and reducing regulations, this bill saves taxpayers $23 billion in mandatory federal spending. “Today’s bipartisan vote on the farm bill conference report is a victory for both rural and urban America,” said Cole. “Despite competing interests on both sides of the aisle, this legislation shows that both chambers of Congress and the Administration can come together and get work done. Not only does this bill save taxpayers $23 billion in mandatory federal spending, but adoption of this five-year farm bill also restores certainty to farmers, ranchers and consumers. This achievement would not have been possible without the leadership, dedication and great skill of my friend and colleague House Agriculture Chairman Frank Lucas, who has worked tirelessly over the last four years to find spending reductions and prioritize valuable programs.”To watch Congressman Cole’s remarks on the House Floor in support of the farm bill conference report , click here. ###
01.29.2014	Washington, D.C. - House Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers today announced the Republican membership of the 12 Appropriations Subcommittees for the Second Session of the 113th Congress. “I am proud and honored to announce the membership of the 12 Subcommittees of the Appropriations Committee,” Chairman Rogers said. “These 28 men and women have had their mettle tested over the past several months, and they will each play an important and valuable role on this Committee as we turn our focus to appropriations for the 2015 fiscal year.” “Our members each have priorities and concerns that are unique to them and their districts, but we are united behind the common goal of protecting the prosperity of our nation, providing the federal government with responsible levels of discretionary funding, and doing so under regular order. With this outstanding group of lawmakers standing by my side on the Committee, I am confident that we are embarking on what will be a productive Appropriations season,” Chairman Rogers continued.The subcommittee Chairs and Members are as follows:Agriculture Subcommittee:Chairman Robert Aderholt (R-AL) Tom Latham (R-IA) Alan Nunnelee (R-MS)Kevin Yoder (R-KS), Vice-Chairman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) Tom Rooney (R-FL) David Valadao (R-CA)Commerce, Justice, Science Subcommittee:Chairman Frank Wolf (R-VA) John Culberson (R-TX)Robert Aderholt (R-AL), Vice-Chairman Andy Harris (R-MD) John Carter (R-TX) Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) Mark Amodei (R-NV)Defense Subcommittee:Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-NJ) Jack Kingston (R-GA)Kay Granger (R-TX), Vice-Chairman Ander Crenshaw (R-FL) Ken Calvert (R-CA) Tom Cole (R-OK) Steve Womack (R-AR) Robert Aderholt (R-AL) John Carter (R-TX)Energy and Water Subcommittee:Chairman Mike Simpson (R-ID) Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-NJ)Alan Nunnelee (R-MS), Vice-Chairman Ken Calvert (R-CA) Chuck Fleischmann (R-TN) Tom Graves (R-GA) Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE)Financial Services Subcommittee:Chairman Ander Crenshaw (R-FL)Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Vice-Chairman Tom Graves (R-GA) Kevin Yoder (R-KS) Steve Womack (R-AR) Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA) Mark Amodei (R-NV)Homeland Security Subcommittee:Chairman John Carter (R-TX)John Culberson (R-TX), Vice-Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-NJ) Tom Latham (R-IA) Charles Dent (R-PA) Chuck Fleischmann (R-TN) Jack Kingston (R-GA)Interior Subcommittee:Chairman Ken Calvert (R-CA)Mike Simpson (R-ID), Vice-Chairman Tom Cole (R-OK) Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA) David Joyce (R-OH) David Valadao (R-CA) Chris Stewart (R-UT)Labor, Health and Human Services Subcommittee:Chairman Jack Kingston (R-GA)Steve Womack (R-AR), Vice-Chairman Chuck Fleischmann (R-TN) David Joyce (R-OH) Andy Harris (R-MD) Martha Roby (R-AL) Chris Stewart (R-UT)Legislative Branch Subcommittee:Chairman Tom Cole (R-OK)Andy Harris (R-MD), Vice-Chairman Martha Roby (R-AL) Mark Amodei (R-NV) Chris Stewart (R-UT)Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Subcommittee:Chairman John Culberson (R-TX) Alan Nunnelee (R-MS)Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE), Vice-Chairman Tom Rooney (R-FL) Tom Graves (R-GA) David Valadao (R-CA) Martha Roby (R-AL)State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee:Chairwoman Kay Granger (R-TX) Frank Wolf (R-VA) Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL)Charles Dent (R-PA), Vice-Chairman Ander Crenshaw (R-FL) Kevin Yoder (R-KS) Tom Rooney (R-FL)Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Subcommittee:Chairman Tom Latham (R-IA)Frank Wolf (R-VA), Vice-Chairman Charles Dent (R-PA) Kay Granger (R-TX) Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA) David Joyce (R-OH) Mike Simpson (R-ID) ###Contact: Jennifer Hing (202) 225-2771 (Appropriations)Sarah Corley (202) 225 - 6165 (Cole)
01.28.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after President Barack Obama delivered his annual State of the Union address during a joint session of Congress. “Throughout his administration, the president has had difficulty working with Congress,” said Cole. “That has been especially true in this era of divided government. As expected, new promises abounded tonight, but lofty ambitions don’t pay for themselves. Our nation is currently suffering the weakest recovery since World War II, which should drive the president to keep the focus on healing the economy by offering regulatory relief, reforming entitlements and putting the country on fiscally firm footing—not imposing new spending or raising taxes. “The president called for a ‘Year of Action,’ and certainly the country would like to see reforms that benefit the American people. That’s why the House of Representatives has passed dozens of bills that would benefit job creators, bring new jobs and improve the workforce. That’s why the House has worked tirelessly to find reforms that bring down the deficit. However, through talk of programs like unemployment benefits, the president again showed that he is more inclined to fight Congress than to work with it. To get things done in divided government, the president must set goals that unite Democrats and Republicans. But the message in tonight’s speech is a disappointment. “As President Theodore Roosevelt once wrote, ‘I have a very strong feeling that it is a president’s duty to get on with Congress if he possibly can, and that it is a reflection upon him if he and Congress come to a complete break.’ During much of President Obama’s time in office, he has refused to work with Congress or consider anything other than his own vision. We are a nation of laws and each branch of government serves as a check on the other. Whether the president likes it or not, he cannot act without Congress and remain true to the Constitution. “In the coming days, especially with the expiring debt ceiling, the president has a real opportunity to move past rhetoric and into actual conversation and cooperation with lawmakers. Otherwise, he will be remembered in history for his inability to lead or accomplish anything of value,” concluded Cole. ###Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225 - 6165
01.27.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after House Majority Leader Eric Cantor (VA-07) announced that Senators Tim Kaine (VA), Mark Warner (VA) and Orrin Hatch (UT) will provide support for the Gabriella Miller Kids First Research Act through a companion bill and lead efforts for passage. Passed by the House with strong bipartisan support in December and cosponsored by Congressmen Tom Cole (OK-04), Gregg Harper (MS-03) and Peter Welch (VT), H.R. 2019 redirects taxpayer dollars from political party conventions and instead uses funds for pediatric disease research. Congressman Cole said, “I am pleased that Senators Kaine, Warner and Hatch will lead support efforts for the Gabriella Miller Kids First Research Act in the upper chamber. As a former chief of staff at the Republican National Committee, I know firsthand that political party conventions can be funded easily by private sources alone, rather than using hardworking taxpayer dollars. If passed, H.R. 2019 would help taxpayer dollars serve a much better purpose by funding valuable research into children’s diseases, including cancer and autism, at the National Institutes of Health.” Leader Cantor said, “Gabriella Miller was an inspiring young girl from Virginia who was only 9 years old when diagnosed with an inoperable brain tumor the size of a walnut. Gabriella’s fight lives on with the bipartisan Gabriella Miller Kids First Research Act. Putting a priority on federal funding for pediatric medical research at the NIH will help overcome childhood cancer, autism and many other diseases impacting our children. Thanks to the hard work of Congressmen Gregg Harper, Peter Welch, and Tom Cole the House chose to put finding cures for our kids before financing political conventions. With the bipartisan support of Senators Kaine, Warner, and Hatch, I hope the Senate acts swiftly to do the same and sends Gabriella’s bill to the President’s desk to be signed into law so we can help more children.” ###Contact:Sarah Corley (202) 225 - 6165 (Cole) Megan Whittemore (202) 225 - 4000 (Cantor)
01.27.2014	Washington, D.C. – House Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-VA) today announced bipartisan, bicameral support for the Gabriella Miller Kids First Research Act. In December, H.R. 2019, sponsored by Congressmen Gregg Harper (R-MS), Peter Welch (D-VT), and Tom Cole (R-OK) overwhelmingly passed the House of Representatives with a bipartisan vote of 295-103. Senators Tim Kaine (D-VA), Mark Warner (D-VA), and Orrin Hatch (R-UT) plan to lead support for the companion bill and champion it through the U.S. Senate: Leader Cantor said, “Gabriella Miller was an inspiring young girl from Virginia who was only 9 years old when diagnosed with an inoperable brain tumor the size of a walnut. Gabriella’s fight lives on with the bipartisan Gabriella Miller Kids First Research Act. Putting a priority on federal funding for pediatric medical research at the NIH will help overcome childhood cancer, autism and many other diseases impacting our children. Thanks to the hard work of Congressmen Gregg Harper, Peter Welch, and Tom Cole the House chose to put finding cures for our kids before financing political conventions. With the bipartisan support of Senators Kaine, Warner, and Hatch, I hope the Senate acts swiftly to do the same and sends Gabriella’s bill to the President’s desk to be signed into law so we can help more children.” Senator Kaine said, “The Gabriella Miller Kids First Research Act is an important way to honor the memory of this remarkable young Virginian while recognizing the importance of pediatric disease research. I’m honored to support this effort and look forward to doing all I can to move it forward in the Senate.” Senator Warner said, “I am pleased to add my support to this worthwhile effort to boost NIH research for pediatric diseases. By all accounts, Gabriella Miller was a profile in courage, and I can think of no better way to honor her legacy.” Senator Hatch said, “There is no greater tragedy than the loss of a child, as Gabriella’s parents know all too well. Their story is heart-breaking and shows how much more we have to stop pediatric illness. Prioritizing research funding at the National Institutes of Health to combat life-threatening childhood diseases just makes sense. That’s why I’m so proud to back this legislation with my good friends from Virginia and thank my colleagues in the House for their hard work. Once we’ve introduced this legislation in the Senate, I pledge to do everything in my power to make sure this bill becomes law.” The Gabriella Miller Kids First Research Act is supported by over 100 patient advocacy groups and has over 2,600 Citizen Cosponsors. Learn more HERE. ###Contact: Megan Whittemore 202.225.4000 (Cantor) Amy Dudley 202.224.4024 (Kaine) Kevin Hall 202.228.6884 (Warner) Matt Harakal 202.224.5251 (Hatch)
01.17.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after Senator Tom Coburn (OK) announced that he would resign at the end of the 113th Congress. “For most of the past 20 years, Tom Coburn has been either my client or my colleague in Congress,” said Cole. “I have watched with great pride and awe as he has repeatedly ‘spoke truth to power’ and fought for the views, values and interests of Oklahoma and all of America. “No Oklahoman and few Americans have contributed more to our national dialogue over the course of the last two decades than Tom Coburn. A tireless leader and honest voice for Oklahoma, he is an unusual politician because he hates politics. But Tom loves our country and relishes the debate on the critical issues of our time. “Whether in or out of office, he will remain a voice of courage and conviction that America and Oklahoma will rely upon for wisdom and truth. I know Tom will make his remaining time in office count, and his legacy will continue to inspire leaders—young and old. “Tom, his wife Carolyn and his family are in my thoughts and prayers. I remain confident that he will once again overcome the challenges related to his health, and I wish my friend and his family the best in the days ahead,” concluded Cole. ###
01.15.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 3547, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2014. This bipartisan omnibus, comprised of 12 appropriations bills, follows the $1.012 trillion funding level set by the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 and fully funds the federal government during fiscal year 2014. “Today’s vote is a bipartisan victory for the House of Representatives, but most importantly, it’s a victory for the American people,” said Cole. “Not only does passage of this bill avert another painful government shutdown, but it also restores regular order to the appropriations process. I am encouraged by the tireless efforts of House Chairman Hal Rogers and Ranking Member Nita Lowey, who worked with Senate Chairwoman Barbara Mikulski and Ranking Member Richard Shelby to craft a bill before the deadline. “Since 2009, we have faced financial crisis after crisis, and, rather than pass an actual budget, we relied on short-term funding measures and prevented appropriators from fulfilling an important role. While there is still work to be done, this legislation strikes an appropriate balance between Republican and Democratic priorities. “I remain optimistic that we can continue to work together, find common ground and improve our economic situation,” concluded Cole. ###
01.14.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations announced a bipartisan omnibus that funds the government for fiscal year 2014. Cole praised inclusion of the provision that ensures federal workers earning an hourly wage will receive the same cost of living adjustment as all other federal workers for 2014. The legislation sets forth a 1 percent Cost of Living Adjustment (COLA) for hourly federal employees in 2014. There are more than 174,000 workers in the Defense Department; 7,634 are based in Oklahoma alone. Most hourly federal workers are employed at Tinker Air Force Base in Midwest City and the U.S. Army Ammunitions Plant in McAlester, but employees at the Department of Veterans Affairs and Bureau of Prisons are also impacted. “We depend greatly on federal employees who work for hourly wages,” said Cole. “Like in Oklahoma, many of my colleagues have a large number of federal workers in their state and district, and I was pleased that we could work together in a bipartisan manner. “There are thousands of hourly workers serving with great dedication in our state. Due to furloughs caused by sequestration last year and more recently by the government shutdown in October, hourly personnel have suffered a great deal. “I am pleased to see this provision included in the omnibus. It rightfully recognizes the important support hourly workers provide, like salaried, and provides them the same COLA as all other federal workers, which has been the case since 1979.” ###
01.09.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), along with members of the entire Oklahoma delegation, today sent a letter to FAA Administrator Michael P. Huerta requesting a detailed briefing regarding the recent selection of unmanned aerial systems (UAS) test sites. Prior to the December 30th announcement, Oklahoma was one of about two dozen states vying to serve as a location. The letter to Administrator Huerta, signed also by Senators Jim Inhofe and Tom Coburn, Congressmen Frank Lucas (OK-03), James Lankford (OK-05), Markwayne Mullin (OK-02) and Jim Bridenstine (OK-01), asks FAA to explain why Oklahoma was not selected as one of the six sites. “Oklahoma is a proven leader in the study, development and use of unmanned aerial systems,” said Cole. “I am disappointed by FAA’s decision not to include our state as a test site for drone use in the U.S. airspace. “Our state remains one of the top innovation and testing centers in the world. We have the infrastructure and policies in place that make Oklahoma a global center of excellence in aerospace and UAS. Despite this set back, we will continue to find ways to position Oklahoma as a national leader in the advancement of UAS technology and create an environment conducive to job creation,” concluded Cole.To read the letter sent to FAA Administrator Huerta by members of the Oklahoma Congressional Delegation, click here. ###
12.12.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House of Representatives successfully passed H.J. Res. 59, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013. This legislation comes several weeks after a bipartisan budget conference committee, led by Chairman Paul Ryan and Chairman Patty Murray, was formed to negotiate a deal before December 13. Cole served as a conferee. “I am pleased that the House voted in favor of the Bipartisan Budget Act,” said Cole. “Since 2009, the federal government has depended on short-term agreements, rather than passing a long-term budget plan. While this bill doesn’t address everything, it is a starting point that represents true compromise and sets the stage for future reform. By working together and engaging in real negotiations, Chairmen Ryan and Murray found targeted, smarter cuts that retain more than the total savings previously achieved through sequester. But most importantly, passage of this legislation in both chambers will restore regular order to the budget and appropriations process. It will also remove the threat of another government shutdown in the near future. “I am encouraged that we agreed to talk and listen to each other in order to reach this compromise. It should serve as a welcome reminder that, even in divided government, we can work together and find common ground.” ###
12.11.2013	Washington, D.C. – The House today unanimously approved legislation sponsored by Congressman Markwayne Mullin (OK-2) to allow construction of a memorial to Native American veterans on the grounds of the National Museum of the American Indian. H.R. 2319 passed the House with a bipartisan vote of 398-0. “I have heard from people I represent and from outside our district that the construction of this memorial means a great deal to Native Americans who served this nation and to their families,” Mullin said. “It is important that we properly honor these brave soldiers and tell their stories for generations to come.” The memorial cannot be paid for with taxpayer funds, so H.R. 2319 allows for the museum to raise money for its construction. The legislation has received overwhelming support from the National Congress of American Indians and the National Museum of the American Indian. "With the recent presentation of the Congressional gold medals to tribal code talkers, it is an appropriate time for a renewed focus and gratitude toward Native Americans who served America in our war efforts and protected our freedoms," said S. Joe Crittenden, Deputy Chief of the Cherokee Nation and a U.S. Navy veteran from the Vietnam War. "We applaud Congress for taking the necessary steps to truly honor our warriors and the sacrifices Native families have made to defend this great country of ours." Mullin is one of only two Native Americans in Congress. The other is U.S. Rep. Tom Cole from Oklahoma’s Fourth Congressional District. Cole also cosponsored H.R. 2319.“Throughout my life, I have always been proud of my Native American heritage,” stated Cole. “I am very pleased that the legislation brought to the floor by Congressman Mullin will help facilitate construction of a memorial honoring Native Americans who served our country on the battlefield. It is only right to recognize and remember the significant contributions of those Native American warriors who served our country on the battlefield with great skill and bravery, and there is no better place than the National Museum of the American Indian.” Tribal leaders praised the passage of H.R. 2319 and its significance to Native Americans. “We take great pride in the long history of Native American service in the armed forces of the United States,” said Chickasaw Governor Bill Anoatubby. “We owe all these brave men and women a debt of gratitude for what they have done to protect our freedom and our way of life. This memorial is one way we can express our appreciation for their service and sacrifice.” “Congressman Mullin understands how we as Native People revere our warriors,” said John L. Berrey, Chairman of the Quapaw Tribe. “His dedication to Native Americans is truly from the heart. As the Chairman of the Quapaw Tribe we are honored to have Mullin as our representative.” “The Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma applauds the passage of Representative Mullin's bill, honoring the dedication and sacrifice of Native veterans,” said Choctaw Chief Gregory E. Pyle. “H.R. 2319 authorizes the Native American Veterans Memorial for tribal veterans from all tribes and all wars. Some of these warriors were fighting for our country before they were even recognized as American citizens. I am very pleased with the passage of this bill and very proud of all the Choctaw veterans and the many other Native soldiers who will be represented by this memorial.” ###Contact:Ashley Kehl (202) 225 - 2701 (Mullin)Angie Gallant (918) 351 - 8700 (Mullin)Sarah Corley (202) 225 - 6165 (Cole)
12.11.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after House Budget Chairman Paul Ryan and Senate Budget Chairman Patty Murray unveiled a two-year bipartisan budget deal. Cole served as a member of the bipartisan joint conference committee that was tasked with finding a budget by December 13. The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 sets overall discretionary spending at $1.012 trillion, which includes $63 billion in sequester relief and $85 billion in other savings, including mandatory savings and non-tax revenue. It also includes a short-term “doc-fix” that prevents most cuts to Medicare reimbursements. “I am very pleased by the proposal unveiled by Chairmen Paul Ryan and Patty Murray,” said Cole. “By leading and working together, they have proven that, despite inevitable differences and sometimes-conflicting priorities, we can find common ground. “Hardworking American families desperately want their government to stop budgeting by short-term, continuing resolutions or refusing to talk at all. When I remember the pain caused by the recent shutdown, I am encouraged that this conference was able to reach a deal that finds real savings, eases sequester and brings down the deficit. “We must continue finding common sense reforms that improve our economic outlook, bring down the deficit and provide a better future for our children and grandchildren. This budget deal is proof that is still possible.”For a copy of the bill text, click here. For a summary of the of the deal, click here. ###
11.25.2013	Shawnee, OK – As part of President Obama’s commitment to self-determination of tribal nations, Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewell and Assistant Secretary of Indian Affairs Kevin K. Washburn today joined Citizen Potawatomi Nation Chairman John Barrett to formally approve tribal leasing regulations that will help spur investment and commercial development on the nation’s trust lands in central Oklahoma. “The Citizen Potawatomi Nation now has the authority to decide how it wants to do business on its lands, making it easier for families to do things like buy and build houses or open businesses in the communities where they have lived for generations,” said Secretary Jewell, who also serves as chair of the White House Council on Native American Affairs. “Today’s action encourages economic development on Indian lands, generating investment, new jobs and revenues. I applaud Chairman Barrett and Vice-Chairman Linda Capps for their leadership on this initiative and look forward to working with other tribes across the nation to maintain tribal sovereignty and promote tribal self-determination and self-government.” Today’s signing ceremony comes on the heels of the 2013 White House Tribal Nations Conference, when leaders from all 566 federally recognized tribes are invited to Washington, D.C. to interact directly with the President and senior cabinet and administration officials. The conference – the fifth for the Obama Administration – continues to build on the President’s commitment to strengthen the government-to-government relationship with Indian Country. The Helping Expedite and Advance Responsible Tribal Homeownership Act (HEARTH Act), signed by President Obama in July 2012, restores the authority of federally recognized tribes to develop and implement their own laws governing the long-term leasing of Indian lands for residential, business and other purposes. Upon one-time approval of these tribal regulations by the Department of the Interior, tribes have the authority to process land leases without Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) approval, greatly expediting the approval of leases for homes and small businesses in Indian Country. “We are thankful to Secretary Jewell, Assistant Secretary Washburn and their team at the Department of Interior for their efforts in implementing the Hearth Act and approving the Citizen Potawatomi Nation business leasing regulations,” said Chairman Barrett. “This is a step in the right direction for tribal self-governance and will empower tribal governments to take greater control of their land. CPN has created a thriving economy of retail and tourism developments and we look forward to working with other businesses to spur business and commercial development in Oklahoma.” The Citizen Potawatomi Nation, a traditionally Algonquian-speaking Eastern Woodlands tribe has more than 30,000 enrolled tribal members, of whom more than 10,000 live in the state of Oklahoma.“Increased economic opportunity is the best way to raise the standards of living for tribal members. Today’s formal approval of leasing regulations for the Citizen Potawatomi Nation will pave the way for just that,” said Congressman Tom Cole, who attended the ceremony and was a cosponsor of the HEARTH Act. “This is not only beneficial for tribal governments, but the entire state of Oklahoma will feel the positive impact of increased economic activity. I am grateful to Secretary Jewell, Assistant Secretary Washburn and the Interior Department for their tireless efforts in helping tribes use their own lands.” The signing, which took place at the Potawatomi National Cultural Heritage Center in Shawnee, is the sixth tribal leasing ordinance approved by the Department of the Interior under the HEARTH Act. Previous pacts were signed with the Federated Indians of Graton Rancheria (February 1, 2013); Pueblo of Sandia (March 14, 2013); Pokagon Band of Potawatomi Indians (April 11, 2013); Ak-Chin Indian Community (November 10, 2013); and Santa Rosa Band of Cahuilla Indians (November 10, 2013). Additional tribal leasing authority applications are under review. Today’s ceremony comes almost a year after Interior issued new regulations to complement the HEARTH Act by streamlining the department’s leasing approval process. The final regulations, issued November 27, 2012, capped the overhaul of antiquated BIA regulations for leasing 56 million surface acres that the federal government holds in trust for Indian tribes and individuals. The new regulations fundamentally change the way the BIA does business, providing clarity by identifying specific processes – with enforceable timelines – through which the BIA must review leases. The regulation also establishes separate, simplified processes for residential, business, and renewable energy development, rather than using a “one-size fits all” approach that treats a lease for a single family home the same as a lease for a large wind energy project. “The very essence of self-determination is that it should be the tribe that decides how its lands may be used for the good of its members, and that is what the HEARTH Act and Interior’s comprehensive reform of Indian land leasing regulations does,” said Assistant Secretary Washburn. “These parallel efforts have a real impact for individuals and families who want to own a home or build a business. These initiatives help strengthen self-reliance and secure the well-being of future generations.” ### Contact: Jessica Kershaw, (202) 208-6416 (DOI) Nedra Darling, (202) 208-3710 (AS-IA) Sarah Corley, (202) 225-6165 (Cole)
11.21.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole introduced the Wage Grade Employee Parity Act (H.R. 3573) along with Congressman Matt Cartwright (PA-17). This year, the president was able to provide a 1 percent Cost of Living Adjustment (COLA) for General Schedule (GS), or salaried, federal employees. However, he does not have the statutory authority to provide the same COLA to all federal workers. Beginning January 1, 2014, Wage Grade (WG) employees’ wages will stay the same or even decrease thus creating a disparity between the wages of WG and GS employees. General Schedule and Wage Grade pay increases have been limited to the same amount in the same geographic area since FY 1979. “We depend greatly on federal employees who work for hourly wages,” said Congressman Cole. “As of October 31st , there were more than 174,000 hourly workers In the Defense Department alone and 7,634 in Oklahoma, most of which work at Tinker Air Force Base in Midwest City and the U.S. Army Ammunitions Plant in McAlester. The Department of Veterans Affairs and Bureau of Prisons are also impacted.. Due to furloughs caused first by sequestration and more recently by the government shutdown, these dedicated employees have suffered a great deal. I am pleased that this legislation recognizes the important support hourly workers provide, like salaried, and compensates them for lost pay." “The inconsistency in wages between WG and GS employees is inequitable. It hurts a group of Americans that can least afford a fourth year with no increase at all,” said Congressman Cartwright. “For this reason, I am proud to introduce this legislation which will benefit a group that has been particularly impacted by furloughs and the government shutdown.” ### Contact: Sarah Corley (Cole) Shane Seaver (Cartwright)
11.20.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) and Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04), co-chairs of the Native American Congressional Caucus, participated in a ceremony today that honored Native American code talkers with the Congressional Gold Medal of Honor. Out of the 33 tribes recognized, 10 tribes are from Oklahoma and three (Choctaw, Comanche and Kiowa) are from the Fourth District of Oklahoma. “Today we honor the great bravery and skill of Native American military heroes,” said Congressman Cole, who is a member of the Chickasaw Nation. “Over the course of American history, Native Americans have demonstrated outstanding valor on the battlefield, and today we remember the vital role they played as code talkers during World War I and World War II. These individuals embraced their cultural heritage and used it to prevent highly-sensitive wartime messages from being intercepted by the enemy. Because of their service and unique contributions, countless lives were saved and victory was claimed more quickly by the Allies. This ceremony inspires great pride in the Native American hearts, including my own. But for all Americans, it should serve as a reminder of true bravery and sacrifice.” “These American heroes are shining examples of the long and proud history of Native Americans’ military service to our country,” said Congresswoman McCollum. “Many Americans are familiar with the story of the Navajo code talkers, but today we recognize the contributions of veterans from 33 tribal nations, including Lakota and Ojibwe speakers. Using the languages of their people, these brave soldiers created unbreakable codes that aided in the Allied victory and saved the lives of many of their brothers-in-arms. Upon returning home, the service of the code talkers was kept secret to protect those programs. As a result, many loyal veterans faced the hardship of never being able to tell their families and communities the details of their valiant service. Today, we offer this long-overdue honor in recognition of their extraordinary contributions to our Nation.” ###Additional photos of today’s ceremony are available here.Contact:Sarah Corley (202) 225 - 6165 (Cole)Matthew Hilgart (202) 225 - 6631 (McCollum)
11.18.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) recently interviewed Cleta Mitchell on his TV show, Cole on Congress. Cleta is a native Oklahoman and currently works as an attorney and partner at Foley & Lardner LLP in Washington, D.C. She is an expert in law, politics and public policy and represents numerous conservative candidates, campaigns and issue organizations, including several non-profit groups who were targeted by the IRS when applying for tax-exempt status. During the interview, Cleta explained what targeting of these groups entailed and how she discovered that it was taking place. Beginning in 2009, after decades assisting organizations, she noticed stalled applications and unnecessary, unusual questions of conservative groups. “What I began to realize was, ‘Wait a minute, we filed that application for this one group in October 2009, and all they’ve ever done is lobby on Obamacare. The IRS cashed our check.’ I don’t hear anything from the IRS at all until June 2010,” Cleta remembered. “And then they want all the ads that the group has run against Obamacare. Now this is a group that’s done no political activity. So we gather that, we send it in. I don’t hear anything again for a year later. Now I’m used to 3 to 5 weeks. Now we’re into 2 years. And that begins to repeat itself over and over with other groups.” To watch the full interview, click here. ###
11.15.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 3350, the Keep Your Health Plan Act. Since HealthCare.gov was launched on October 1, millions of people on the individual market have received cancellation notices even though the president promised, “If you like your healthcare plan, you can keep it.” This legislation allows plans available on the individual market today to be offered in 2014 without penalty under the individual mandate. During a press conference on Thursday, President Obama acknowledged problems with the Affordable Care Act and announced a fix, allowing insurance companies to continue offering plans that would have otherwise been cancelled under the law’s requirements. “Today’s House vote is encouraging because it helps some Americans who recently felt the negative impact of the healthcare law,” said Cole. “However, even this legislation will not prevent many Americans from losing the healthcare coverage they have relied on. This bill should be seen as an emergency triage, rather than a full solution to all the problems created by Obamacare. “Since passage, Obamacare has experienced roadblocks or delays at every turn. Nothing has gone as planned, promised or expected by the president, which has caused Americans to question his ability to lead or lose confidence in his promises. Yesterday’s White House press conference was yet another instance in which the president used his catch-all excuse of ‘I didn’t know’ to cover for the growing number of issues with the Affordable Care Act. “The president acknowledged the need for a solution for millions of unhappy Americans who received coverage cancellations. While I am pleased that he agrees with Republicans and a growing number of Democrats on this problem, the president cannot pick and choose which portions of the law he wants to implement without consulting Congress. The legislative branch is responsible for passing and amending laws, and this authority must be preserved.” ###Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225 - 6165
11.13.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the Administration announced on Wednesday that just over 106,000 people had enrolled in Obamacare last month. “Today’s announcement is a reminder that Obamacare cannot and will not succeed,” said Cole. “The American people were promised affordable healthcare or that they could keep their current plans. So far, Americans have instead been presented with a broken product, frustrated by a website that was not at all ready for primetime and forced off plans they already liked. “You don’t need polls to prove opposition to the president’s so-called affordable plans. Today’s miniscule enrollment numbers speak for themselves. Now more than ever, the president must acknowledge that his healthcare law cannot ever succeed unless it is modified.” ###
11.13.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after he was appointed to serve as Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch. Along with its counterpart in the Senate Appropriations Committee, this House subcommittee oversees funding for the House of Representatives, Architect of the Capitol, Library of Congress, Capitol Police, Congressional Budget Office, Government Printing Office, Government Accountability Office and House committees. “I am honored to be appointed as Chairman of the Legislative Branch Subcommittee,” said Cole. “As I step into this new leadership role, I am optimistic that we can continue to find responsible ways to use hardworking taxpayer dollars. This subcommittee has already led the way in discovering new savings right on the Capitol Hill grounds. I am confident that we can continue to responsibly use taxpayer dollars by eliminating redundancies, and I look forward to leading that effort.” Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers said, “The Legislative Branch Subcommittee takes on the important work of providing funding for the operations, safety, and upkeep of the Nation’s Capitol. It is sometimes a thankless job, but this subcommittee is vital to the functioning of our democracy, and Tom Cole will be a tremendous asset as its new leader. He is dedicated to the careful and responsible use of tax dollars – especially in Congress’s backyard – and he understands the importance of ensuring an open, accessible, and safe environment for the thousands of Members, staffers, and visitors who come to the Capitol every day.” ###
11.13.2013	Washington, D.C. – House Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers today announced four changes in the Chairmanships of Appropriations subcommittees for the 113th Congress. The changes were needed due to the passing of Rep. C.W. Bill Young, who was Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, and the retirement of Rep. Rodney Alexander, who was Chairman of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Subcommittee. “Being an Appropriations Cardinal is an incredibly important job with great responsibility. Year after year, these Subcommittee Chairs are called on to do the tough work of funding the federal government, rooting out waste, making hard decisions on where and how to best use taxpayer dollars, and being responsible and pragmatic leaders who get the job done. I have full confidence that these new Chairmen will meet these challenges – and more – as we face the difficult fiscal landscape ahead,” Chairman Rogers said. Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-NJ), formerly Chairman of the Energy and Water Development Subcommittee, will take the helm of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. “Rodney is a thoughtful, steady, and strong leader, is staunchly dedicated to doing what is best for the country and his district, and has a determined focus that allows him to rise above politics to get things done. He has an unwavering devotion to the safety and security of our nation, and to the care and protection of our men and women in uniform, and I know he will be a great leader of the Defense subcommittee,” Chairman Rogers said. Rep. Mike Simpson (R-ID), formerly Chairman of the Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, will now head the Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development. “There are very few who know more about the nation’s energy and water needs than Mike Simpson. His leadership, experience, drive, and professional focus make him an excellent fit to chair this subcommittee. I know that he is committed to making the most out of every precious taxpayer dollar, to ensuring that our nation continues to strive toward energy independence, and to fostering an environment that allows our businesses to create jobs and grow the economy,” Chairman Rogers said. “I am looking forward to working with him in his new role.” Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) will move up the ranks and assume a Chairmanship for the first time as the leader of the Subcommittee on Interior and the Environment. “Leading the subcommittee in charge of funding everything from our National Parks to the Environmental Protection Agency is an extremely difficult job. Ken is not only up to the task, but will bring a wealth of knowledge and experience that will be an excellent asset to the Committee and to the country as we tackle many fiscal challenges in the future. Ken has proven to be an exceptional leader in eliminating waste and inefficiency in government, has fought for programs and policies that benefit not only the people of his district but all Americans, and has the focus and determination needed to ensure that this important budgetary work gets done,” Chairman Rogers said.Rep. Tom Cole (R-OK) will also become a new Subcommittee Chairman, leading the Appropriations Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch. “The Legislative Branch Subcommittee takes on the important work of providing funding for the operations, safety, and upkeep of the Nation’s Capitol. It is sometimes a thankless job, but this subcommittee is vital to the functioning of our democracy, and Tom Cole will be a tremendous asset as its new leader. He is dedicated to the careful and responsible use of tax dollars – especially in Congress’s backyard – and he understands the importance of ensuring an open, accessible, and safe environment for the thousands of Members, staffers, and visitors who come to the Capitol every day,” Chairman Rogers said. ### Contact: Jennifer Hing (202) 225-2771 (Appropriations) Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165 (Cole)
11.12.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the heartbreaking loss of Dr. Perry Inhofe. The son of Senator James Inhofe (OK) and an orthopedic surgeon in Tulsa, Dr. Inhofe was tragically killed on Sunday during a plane crash over Owasso. “There are no words for this unimaginable, heartbreaking loss,” said Cole. “My heart goes out to my friend and colleague Senator Inhofe and his wife Kay as they grieve the passing of their son, who was so very loved by his family, friends and community. As the entire family mourns, I pray that they will feel the loving support of friends and great care of our Heavenly Father. During this incredibly difficult time, may our thoughts and prayers remain with the Inhofe family.” ###
11.08.2013	Norman, OK - Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after President Obama appeared on NBC News with Chuck Todd. During the Thursday night interview, the president discussed the roll-out of the Affordable Care Act and responded to the millions of Americans whose healthcare plans have been cancelled even though he had previously claimed numerous times before and after the law was passed that "if you like your healthcare plan, you can keep it." "The president's 'apology' for misleading the American people about the consequences of Obamacare is too little, too late and too disingenuous to accept," said Cole. "He promised the American people that his plan would save families of four at least $2,500 on their healthcare plans. Now families are expecting higher costs or losing plans that were already satisfactory. "We heard the president ensure the American people that Obamacare would be ready to go on October 1st. It wasn't. In fact, enrollment numbers are still so low after a month and a half that the Administration is scrambling to fix a broken product. "The president also declared that if Americans liked their healthcare plans, they could keep them. We now know millions of them cannot. Given that track record, why should Americans believe the President on Obamacare now? They cannot, they should not and they will not. "Obamacare has always been a failure, and if it is allowed to stay in place without modification, things will only get worse rather than better in the coming year. Republicans warned the president that his law wasn't ready for primetime, and they tried to prevent, modify or, at the very least, delay Obamacare. But he resisted these efforts, he dismissed our concerns and demonized us every step of the way. Now he is reaping the consequences of his own policies. Sadly, so are the American people. "We must find real solutions, and until we are certain that the law can actually work, we should delay further implementation of Obamacare. Until then, the law will continue to be a disaster sold to the American people on a foundation of false promises and faulty policies. "Saying 'sorry' isn't enough. Now the president must work with both sides of the aisle to fix the failure of Obamacare," concluded Cole. ###Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225 - 6165
11.01.2013	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), ranking member of the Senate Armed Services Committee (SASC), and Congressman Tom Cole (R-OK-04) today praised the U.S. Army for awarding BAE Systems a contract to begin the Paladin Integrated Management (PIM) program. BAE Systems will conduct final assembly and testing of the various PIM platforms in Elgin, Okla. "Congratulations to the U.S. Army and BAE Systems on the beginning of the Paladin Integrated Management program,” said Inhofe. “The PIM is an important upgrade for the U.S. Army that includes a state-of-the-art digital backbone and power generation providing the military with growth potential for future technologies. This award is a significant milestone for all involved, and I am especially pleased that final assembly and test will be conducted in Elgin, Oklahoma, bringing more skilled production jobs into the state."Congressman Cole added, “I am pleased that the Army has awarded the Low Rate Initial Production (LRIP) contract for the Paladin Integrated Management Program weapon system,” said Cole. "I applaud BAE System’s ongoing and growing commitment to locate final assembly of the Army’s Paladin Integrated Management Program weapon system in Elgin. Our state should be proud that in addition to being home to the Army’s Fires Center at Fort Sill, the region will continue to play a vital role in equipping our troops with essential fire support for the future." The contract totaling more than $195 million will provide for Low Rate Initial Production of the M109 self-propelled Horwitzer (SPH), the Carrier Ammunition Tracked (CAT) vehicle, armor kits for both platforms and other basic items. ### Contact: Donelle Harder, Jacob Heisten (Inhofe) Sarah Corley (Cole)
10.30.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after former Congressman Ike Skelton (MO-04) passed away. During much of his 34-year career, Skelton served on the House Committee on Armed Services as Ranking Member (1998-2006) and Chairman (2007-2010) of the full committee. “I was grieved to hear about the loss of my dear friend and colleague Ike Skelton,” said Cole. “I had the great privilege of serving with him for six years on the Armed Services Committee, where his deep commitment to the defense of our country and support of our men and women in uniform was unmatched. I learned as much if not more about the intricacies of defense policy from Ike than any of my other colleagues. “During his distinguished career in the House of Representatives, he was noticeably the best read, most thoughtful Member of Congress. Moreover, he had the ability to work in a civil, decent and instinctively bipartisan manner with all of his colleagues. His opinion mattered a great deal. Even after the end of his tenure in Congress, I considered him an advisor on defense issues. “The loss of Ike Skelton is difficult indeed, but his influence will never be forgotten, especially by those involved in defending the United States and protecting the men and women who volunteered to defend our nation. My thoughts, prayers and sympathy are with his family and many friends as we all grieve,” concluded Cole. ###
10.25.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement to clarify his stance on pro-growth revenue as it relates to upcoming budget negotiations. "Despite reports to the contrary, I oppose raising taxes to deal with the deficit or eliminate the savings generated by the so-called sequester," said Cole. "I have said we ought to pursue entitlement reform that saves money, which is something both President Obama and House Republicans have proposed. This additional revenue would enable us to ease the cuts imposed by the sequester. "However, to reach a compromise, I would be willing to consider additional revenue achieved through pro-growth tax reform. This would include measures such as the repatriation of stranded profits, additional revenue through expedited energy production on federal lands and offshore and asset sales. None of these measures involve increasing taxes or tax rates, but all of them would yield additional revenue to the federal government. "As I have said before, we need to start where we agree. The president and House Republicans agree that we need to reform entitlements. And both agree that there are pro-growth policies that would yield additional revenue to the federal government without raising tax rates. Working together, we can find common ground that will enable us to reduce or even eliminate the impact of the sequester and continue to lower the deficit," concluded Cole. ###
10.23.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the United States House of Representatives passed the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA) of 2013. “From coast to coast, America is brimming with natural harbors and rivers that facilitate domestic and international commerce,” said Cole. “Today’s vote proves that we cannot and will not ignore the needs of our waterways transportation system. I am pleased that the bill provides guidance for expanding, maintaining and supporting these important resources for greater economic prosperity.” ###
10.21.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the passing of Congressman C.W. “Bill” Young (FL-13). Young served on the Appropriations Committee throughout most of his career, including as Chairman (1999-2005) and Ranking Member of the full committee and most recently as Chairman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. Elected in 1970, Chairman Young was the longest serving Republican Member currently in the United States House of Representatives and will be greatly missed by his colleagues. “It is with great sadness that we mourn the loss of Congressman Young,” said Cole. “Bill was an icon in Congress, but to me, he was a role model, a mentor and a patron. He served with great distinction on the Appropriations Committee throughout most of his career, and beginning in 2011, I had the great honor of serving under Chairman Young on the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. “No one in America cared more about our men and women in uniform than Bill and his wife Beverly. He made dozens of trips abroad to visit American service personnel in the field, and he was a regular visitor to our wounded warriors at Walter Reed and other service hospitals. “After tornadoes ravaged my hometown of Moore earlier this year, Bill and Beverly Young immediately extended their heartfelt sympathy and support, but they went an extra mile by putting me in touch with their friends at Cantor Fitzgerald, a New York investment banking firm that lost hundreds of employees in the World Trade Center on 9/11. Thanks to Bill and Beverly, the Cantor Fitzgerald Relief Fund generously donated $1,000 prepaid debit cards to each family who had a child in the Moore Public School District and whose home was damaged or destroyed during the storm. “Bill was a patriot, a true gentleman and a towering figure for over 40 years in the ‘People's House.’ He will be mourned by his family and many friends, his colleagues on both sides of the aisle, his constituents and, most importantly, by the men and women of America's Armed Forces. Bill was their champion, advocate and defender throughout his distinguished congressional career. My prayers and thoughts are with Beverly and his family during this trying time,” concluded Cole. ###Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225 - 6165
10.18.2013	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after he was appointed by Speaker John Boehner and Budget Chairman Paul Ryan to serve on a 29-person conference committee, comprised of seven House Members and 22 Senators. Cole will be one of four House Republicans to engage in high-level budget negotiations between the House and Senate with the goal of producing a resolution by December 13. If successful, this compromise will be the first time since 2009 that both chambers have agreed on a budget. “As we begin budget negotiations, I am hopeful that we can find common sense reforms that improve our economic outlook and provide a better future for our children and grandchildren,” said Cole. “I am pleased to bring the conservative values of Oklahomans to the table as we enter this critical time. “Americans want solutions that reduce the deficit, overhaul the current tax system, create more jobs, spur economic growth and preserve the full faith and credit of the United States. These are goals shared by my fellow Republicans and my constituents back home. In the coming days, I am ready to work with my Democrat colleagues as we attempt to find common ground for the sake of the entire nation. “After the pain caused by government shutdown and the uncertainty triggered by the expiring debt ceiling, we know now more than ever that we have to talk to each other. While conference negotiations will be intense and tough, it is critical that we find common ground to avoid any repeats of what we experienced during shutdown,” concluded Cole. ###
10.17.2013	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House voted for a resolution to fund the federal government through January 15, raise the debt ceiling through February 7 and appoint a conference committee to negotiate long-term budget reforms. "The last three weeks have been challenging for lawmakers and unfair for Americans, but today is a better day," said Cole. "Because both sides worked together and negotiated, the government will reopen at last and federal employees can finally return to work. "This is good news for every American, but it's a heavy burden lifted for thousands of federal workers across the Fourth District of Oklahoma, including individuals at Tinker Air Force Base, Fort Sill, Federal Aviation Administration and other important agencies. I am pleased that services like those provided at Veterans centers and hospitals for Native Americans will now receive the funding needed to continue serving their patients. "I am encouraged that everyone came to the table and agreed that we cannot risk the full faith and credit of the United States of America. The repercussions of passing the debt deadline and allowing default would be felt for years to come, seriously damaging the economy for future generations. As lawmakers convene and negotiate long-term reforms through a conference committee, I know we can continue working out policies that promote economic growth and bring down the deficit. "While the suffering caused by shutdown went on far too long, House efforts to reopen the government never wavered. In the days ahead, I am hopeful that both chambers on both sides of the aisle learned lessons from this episode and recognize that despite inevitable differences, it is possible to agree and find a compromise," concluded Cole. ###Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225 - 6165
10.14.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.J. Res 80, the American Indian and Alaska Native, Health, Education, and Safety Act. This bill passed by a vote of 233-160 and provides immediate funding for the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA), Bureau of Indian Education (BIE) and Indian Health Service (HIS) “I am pleased that the House acted in a bipartisan manner by funding critical programs that benefit Indian Country,” said Cole. “Not only does it provide hope for larger budget negotiations and the end of a shutdown that has dragged on too long, it also requires for the federal government to honor existing treaty obligations with tribal governments. “Native Americans should not suffer the loss or reduction of benefits due to this lapse in appropriations. Today’s House action is a step in the right direction, but it’s not the end of the story. I call upon the Senate to immediately take up this legislation and act in a bipartisan manner in restoring these important programs. As we continue working together to find common ground, I look forward to real solutions that fund the entire government and keep Indian Country functioning. To watch Congressman Cole’s recent remarks in support of H.J. Res 80 on the House floor, click here. ###
10.10.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after House members met with President Obama at the White House and presented a proposal to temporarily raise the debt ceiling and prevent default. “I applaud Speaker John Boehner for his leadership and continued efforts to find solutions in this difficult shutdown situation,” said Cole. “The president’s willingness to engage and review this debt ceiling proposal is a step in the right direction and shows that neither side is willing to place the full faith and credit of the United States at risk. “As we continue to work together to find common ground on a long-term budget solution, we must remain committed to the thousands of furloughed federal workers who need and want to return to work and the millions of Americans inconvenienced by the lapse in government services. While we are close to solving the debt ceiling crisis, we cannot forget the current shutdown at hand. The need to negotiate on a funding deal must be addressed, and I’m pleased that we are still working toward a solution that will reopen the government. “This current debt ceiling proposal shows that House Republicans are willing to meet the president halfway, but the president must also move toward us and engage in real negotiations,” concluded Cole. ###
10.05.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 3223, the Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act. This legislation would ensure that federal workers receive lost pay for the duration of the government shutdown, regardless of furlough status. “It has now been five days since appropriated dollars to fund the government expired, causing this unfortunate shutdown,” said Cole. “Since this lapse in appropriations, more than 800,000 federal workers have been needlessly furloughed. Shutdown is not their fault, and there’s no reason why they should suffer lost working days and pay because the Senate and president refuse to engage in real negotiations. I am pleased that the House has taken action to protect the livelihood of these valuable federal employees, ensuring that they are compensated for lost pay.” ###
10.03.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) joined with House colleagues to urge Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel, Acting Homeland Security Secretary Rand Beers and OMB Director Sylvia Burwell to properly enforce the Pay Our Military Act. This letter was sent after hundreds of thousands of Department of Defense, U.S. Coast Guard civilians and members of the National Guard were furloughed. The Pay Our Military Act (H.R. 3210) received unanimous support in both chambers of Congress and was signed into law by President Obama on Monday. It was designed to protect members of the Armed Forces (including reserve components), civilian personnel of the Department of Defense and U.S. Coast Guard, and contractors of the Department of Defense and U.S Coast Guard from furloughs or lost pay. In addition to the letter, Congressman Cole supported the Pay Our Guard and Reserve Act (H.R. 3230) to ensure that pay and allowances will be made to members of the reserve and guard components of the Armed Forces who perform inactive-duty training. “There is no reason for the Administration to needlessly furlough workers against the intent of Congress,” said Cole. “Both chambers immediately acted together to pass legislation that would guarantee pay for our military even in the event of a government shutdown. It is unacceptable for the Administration to go back on its word to protect our veterans and those who support our national security efforts. Congressman Cole has also co-sponsored the Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act (H.R. 3223). If passed, this legislation would ensure that federal workers receive lost pay for the duration of the funding gap. In particular, the bill would allow the 2,900 individuals at Tinker Air Force Base and more than 2,200 at Fort Sill in Lawton to be paid back, regardless of furlough status during the shutdown,. “Shutdown was never the goal and certainly not the fault of federal employees. It’s unfair that they should lose working days and sacrifice their pay just because the Senate and President have delayed or refused to engage in negotiations with the House. I am pleased that the legislation introduced will ensure employees are compensated for lost pay.” ###Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225 - 6165
10.01.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the Senate’s failure to engage in budget negotiations with the House in order to avert a government shutdown. Due to Senate inaction, many government agencies closed on October 1. “Today is an unfair day for America and one that could have been avoided,” said Cole. “While the House has worked tirelessly to propose fair solutions, the Senate has refused to consider a compromise in any form. Now we are all suffering the consequences of government shutdown, including the furlough of more than 800,000 federal workers. “The House passed three temporary spending measures to keep the government running, including proposals that would defund Obamacare, delay implementation of the law for a year or delay the individual mandate for a year. Our economy is broken, and shutting down the government is making it worse. It is critical that leaders from both chambers work together to resolve the situation and find meaningful long-term solutions to our growing deficit, especially as we near another deadline with the debt ceiling. We must unite, acting swiftly and with great urgency.” ###
09.26.2013	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), a senior member of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee, and Congressman Tom Cole (R-OK-4) today congratulated University of Oklahoma, Oklahoma State University and Langston University for being awarded a grant of approximately $2.5 million through the U.S. Department of Transportation’s University Transportation Centers (UTC) program. “Oklahoma’s central location positions our state at a critical crossroad for the shipment of goods and travel across the nation,” said Inhofe. “Two primary constitutional duties of the government is providing a strong national defense and supporting a strong transportation and infrastructure system to facilitate commerce. With this grant, our Oklahoma Universities will continue to advance Oklahoma’s research, technology and expertise in the transportation industry.” "I am pleased that the Department of Transportation will award more than $2.5 million in grant money to the University of Oklahoma’s UTC consortium," said Cole. "This grant recognizes that Oklahoma is advancing viable solutions that will repair broken infrastructure and improve other transportation needs nationwide. I look forward to the difference this money will make through the bright minds in Norman and through the seven other consortium universities in Oklahoma, Louisiana, Texas and New Mexico.” Gary Ridley, Oklahoma Secretary of Transportation, added: “The transportation community in Oklahoma is extremely pleased to hear that the University of Oklahoma is the recipient of a University Transportation Center grant. We are proud of the work OU, OSU, Langston University and others have done to be chosen as one of ten regional centers. These universities will work together to address issues facing the regional and national transportation system thanks to this award.” "Senator Jim Inhofe understands the vital importance of education, workforce development and research related to transportation in Oklahoma,” said the Dean of the University of Oklahoma’s College of Engineering Thomas Landers. “With his leadership and support, the Southern Plains Regional Transportation Center will have the opportunity to address the needs of transportation infrastructure and users in Oklahoma and throughout the region. The University of Oklahoma is pleased to accept the leadership role, working closely with our colleagues at Oklahoma State, Langston, and the collaborating universities in surrounding states." The U.S. Department of Transportation competitively selected 10 regional UTCs. The University of Oklahoma will be the lead institution for the Southern Plains Regional UTC, and contributing partners will include Oklahoma State University, Langston University, University of Arkansas, University of New Mexico, University of Texas at El Paso, Texas Tech University and Louisiana Technological Institute. During Inhofe's time as ranking member of EPW, he helped write and pass the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century (MAP-21) Act which authorizes $72.5 million in fiscal years 2013 and 2014 and provides up to 35 competitive grants for UTCs. ### Contact:Sarah Corley (202) 225 - 6165 (Cole)Donelle Harder (202) 224 - 4721 (Inhofe)Jacob Heisten (Inhofe)
09.23.2013	Norman, OK – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after Cantor Fitzgerald, BGC Partners, Inc. (NASDAQ:BGCP) and the Cantor Fitzgerald Relief Fund, visited Moore on Monday, September 23 to distribute $1,000 prepaid debit cards to each family who had a child in the Moore Public School district at the time of the May 20 tornado and whose home was damaged or destroyed. Howard W. Lutnick, Chairman and CEO of Cantor Fitzgerald, L.P. and BGC Partners, Inc., his wife Allison and sister Edie Lutnick, who is the President and Co-Founder of the Cantor Fitzgerald Relief Fund, traveled to Moore to meet the families and personally distribute the cards. Cantor Fitzgerald is headquartered in New York City, where its offices were previously located on five floors of the World Trade Centers before the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. After losing 658 of their 960 New York employees, including Chairman Lutnick’s brother, the company established the Cantor Fitzgerald Relief Fund to aid families who lost loved ones in the attacks. Since then, the fund has extended support to aid numerous other charitable causes and humanitarian efforts around the world, including helping those impacted by Hurricane Sandy earlier this year. “I am grateful for the generosity shown by Cantor Fitzgerald through these incredible donations that will touch thousands of Oklahomans,” said Cole. “Numerous families were displaced by the storms earlier this year, resulting in tremendous financial and emotional burdens. These gifts will certainly help lighten the heavy load carried by those families as they recover and rebuild. “After losing hundreds of valued and loved employees in the World Trade Center, Cantor Fitzgerald understands firsthand how to work through extreme loss. I am grateful that they have extended a helping hand to us in our time of need. Words cannot truly express our thanks,” concluded Cole. ###Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225 - 6165
09.20.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) today issued the following statement after voting in favor of a continuing resolution that keeps the government running without funding Obamacare. The resolution passed the House by a vote of 230-189. “Today’s vote reminds all Americans that the president’s health care law remains unpopular and should not be implemented,” said Cole. “Ever since Obamacare was signed into law in 2010, House Republicans have worked tirelessly to repeal it partially or completely. While we have seen small victories in the fight to dismantle the law, the battle is far from over. This continuing resolution keeps the government running, but it also sends a clear message to the president that his law should never have passed in the first place and will only end in failure. “House Republicans have now voted 41 times to defund or repeal Obamacare while the Senate has walked down the sad path of inaction and silence. It is high time for Senators to stand up for the American people and pass responsible legislation that lessens the burden of Obamacare. I hope that they take advantage of this golden opportunity.” ###
09.18.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), a member of the Smithsonian Board of Regents, issued the following statement after Smithsonian Secretary Wayne Clough announced his intention to retire in October 2014 after serving the Institution since July 2008. During his tenure, Secretary Clough has overseen the 19 museums and galleries and National Zoo in Washington, D.C., most of which are located on the National Mall. “To say that Secretary Clough will be missed is an understatement,” said Cole. “He is a proven visionary, whose leadership over the last five years has taken the Institution to new heights and increased the accessibility of our national treasures, allowing them to be celebrated in homes and classrooms around the world. Clough has truly led the Smithsonian into the digital age by improving the resources available online and by increasing social media interaction. But at the center of every strategy or initiative is the heart of an educator committed to encouraging people of all ages to keep learning. He will be difficult to replace, but the Smithsonian Institution is certainly a better place after his strong leadership.” ###
09.10.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) remembered the tragedy of September 11, when planes were hijacked twelve years ago by terrorists and crashed into the World Trade Centers in New York City, the Pentagon in Arlington, Virginia, and killed passengers on Flight 93 when it crashed in a field near Stoneycreek Township, Pennsylvania. He also remembered the terrorist attacks on the United States consulate in Benghazi, Libya, that resulted in the death of four Americans, including Ambassador Christopher Stevens. “Today is a day for remembering the price of freedom and value of our security,” said Cole. “Our nation still grieves the innocent lives prematurely taken twelve years ago on September 11. We continue to honor the memory of lost parents, children, friends and loved ones on that fateful day. Our worlds were shaken and our sense of security was shattered, but in the midst of horrific tragedy, we proved our resilience as Americans. We showed the world that in times of crisis, Americans unite, endure and defend. “We live in a dangerous world, and the threat of terrorism is still real, as we were sadly reminded a year ago during the attack on our consulate in Benghazi. That day claimed the lives of four brave Americans, including Ambassador Christopher Stevens, and started several investigations about what happened that night. While we still have many unanswered questions, we remember that our security is not certain, and it must be continually evaluated and monitored.” ###
09.05.2013	Norman, OK - Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement to express his opposition of any American military intervention in Syria. “Military intervention in Syria is not in America’s best interest and is ill-advised,” said Cole. “The United States has not been attacked and neither have our allies. As it stands, this conflict is a civil war, a proxy war between Iran and Saudi Arabia and a religious war. America should avoid being drawn into this conflict. The president’s recent proposal is a gesture, not a clear policy or military strategy. “Using our military to make a diplomatic point is unfair to the brave men and women who volunteered to defend the United States, and it is an inappropriate use of American military power. “This is not just my opinion. It is the considered opinion of the people that I represent, expressed not at just one or two town halls, but literally at every public or private meeting and casual encounter I have had since the president decided to put this issue before Congress last Saturday. I represent 750,000 people, and when those people think this strongly about such an important issue, I certainly have an obligation to make sure their views are reflected in my vote. I have heard their opposition loud and clear and will not vote in favor of military intervention in Syria. “American involvement in Syria could lead to something much worse, much more dangerous, and is certainly not going to advance or improve the situation in the Middle East,” concluded Cole. ###
08.30.2013	Norman, OK – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) announced that Oklahoma will receive nearly $37 million in disaster relief funding, including $26.3 million designated for recovery efforts in Moore. As announced during a press conference today at Moore City Hall, this aid comes from the Community Development Block Grant Program. “Today’s HUD announcement of additional relief funding is one that brings hope to thousands of Oklahomans whose homes and businesses were destroyed by the horrific tornadoes in May,” said Cole. “While there were numerous communities affected, my hometown of Moore saw the most widespread damage and the rebuilding efforts ahead are understandably more challenging there. I am pleased by the generous grant provided by HUD to help our city restore lost homes and businesses but also repair broken infrastructure. "Oklahomans certainly lived through a slew of tragedies earlier this year, but our resilience has remained and our communities have only become stronger. None of this would be possible without the unbelievable support from individuals across the entire nation. Because of the committed work of HUD Secretary Shaun Donovan and numerous groups and individuals across the country, disaster recovery in Oklahoma continues to look better each day,” concluded Cole. For more details about the relief provided by these grants, click here. ###
08.30.2013	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary Shaun Donovan today announced nearly $37 million in disaster recovery aid to the City of Moore, Oklahoma and to the State of Oklahoma to help local communities recover from a devastating spate of storms, including a powerful tornado that struck Moore on May 20th. These grants are provided through HUD’s Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Program to support long-term disaster recovery efforts in areas with the greatest extent of ‘unmet need.’ The City of Moore will receive $26.3 million to supplement other forms of public and private disaster aid following May’s powerful EF5 tornado with its winds exceeding 200 miles per hour. In addition, the State of Oklahoma will receive $10.6 million to support local recovery efforts following these powerful storms that occurred from May 18th through June 2nd. “These powerful tornadoes laid waste to a number of Oklahoma communities, destroying homes, businesses and critical infrastructure beyond the limits of private insurance and other forms of public assistance,” said Donovan. “HUD is continuing to work closely with state and local partners to help them meet these remaining needs and promote locally driven recovery strategies.” Oklahoma Governor Mary Fallin added, “The May storms cost the lives of dozens of Oklahomans and over $1 billion in property damage. We are steadily rebuilding, but many families are still struggling to get back on their feet. The disaster relief grants provided by HUD – along with continued work from state and local governments and non-profits – will make a big difference in the lives of those affected by this year’s tornadoes. They will be particularly helpful as we work to provide assistance to low income Oklahomans, many of whom are uninsured.”Rep. Tom Cole said, “Today’s HUD announcement of additional relief funding is one that brings hope to thousands of Oklahomans whose homes and businesses were destroyed by the horrific tornadoes in May. I am pleased by the generous grant provided by HUD to help our state and my hometown of Moore restore lost homes and businesses and repair broken infrastructure. Because of the committed work of Secretary Shaun Donovan and numerous groups and individuals across the country, disaster recovery in Oklahoma continues to look better each day.” The Disaster Relief Appropriations Act of 2013, signed into law by President Obama on January 29th, included $16 billion in CDBG-Disaster Recovery funding. Eight days later, HUD announced a first round of aid totaling $5.4 billion to five states and the City of New York impacted by Hurricane Sandy. Last March, HUD allocated a second round of assistance totaling $514 million to a number of state and local governments to recover from disasters that occurred in 2011 and 2012. The Department will announce additional allocations throughout the year based upon the level of remaining needs to help other states and local communities impacted by natural disasters in 2011through 2013. HUD’s CDBG-Disaster Recovery grants are intended to confront housing, business and infrastructure needs beyond those addressed by other forms of public and private assistance. Using a combination of data from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the Small Business Administration (SBA), HUD identified those states and local requiring the greatest assistance to recover from devastating tornadoes, tropical storms, hurricanes, flood events and destructive wildfires in 2011, 2012, and 2013. HUD is required to use the best available disaster data in order to determine the relative level of ‘unmet needs’ in areas impacted by presidentially declared disasters that occurred in 2011, 2012 and 2013. As more disaster data becomes available, HUD will make additional CDBG-Disaster Recovery allocations to these impacted areas to assist in their long-term recovery activities, if deemed necessary. HUD will shortly publish a Notice that will regulate the use of the funds announced today. State and local grantees will then finalize disaster ‘action plans’ describing how they intend to expend these funds to support disaster recovery and HUD will quickly review them. ### Contact: Brian Sullivan (202) 708-0685 (HUD) Sarah Corley (202) 225-6165 (Cole)
08.21.2013	Norman, OK – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) issued the following statement after the tragic murder of Chris Lane, an Australian student and baseball player at East Central University in Ada. Lane was randomly targeted and murdered by three teenagers last Friday in Duncan. “There are no words that will help us make sense of the tragic loss of Chris Lane or truly express the sympathy felt by those living in Oklahoma,” said Cole. “It is heinous crimes like these that shake our state and nation and leave our hearts broken. “I am particularly distressed that this senseless murder was committed against a citizen of Australia, a country that has always been a steadfast friend and ally of the United States. Over the last 26 years, I have visited Australia several times as a political leader and Member of Congress, and I have seen firsthand that their friendship is genuine and valuable. It is with sadness that I offer my sincere sympathy and send my prayers to the family and friends of Chris Lane as they grieve the loss of a loved individual. To our dear friends in Australia, I extend my profound apology for this senseless, brutal crime that sadly occurred in my state and district.” ###
08.01.2013	Washington, D.C. - United States Senator Mary L. Landrieu, D-La., Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, and Rep. Tom Cole, R-Okla. today introduced legislation that would help families use disaster loans to build tornado safe rooms. The Tornado Family Safety Act (H.R. 2908 / S. 1440) allows Small Business Administration (SBA) disaster home loan mitigation loans to go towards the construction of safe rooms. Under current law, in an effort to decrease future disaster risk, SBA can increase the size of a home disaster loan by 20 percent of the total damage for mitigation activities as disaster victims rebuild their homes. Following this year’s May 20 tornado in Moore, Oklahoma, the city’s Mayor Glenn Lewis proposed a requirement that all homes rebuilt include a safe room. “We have seen far too many times the devastation that tornadoes can cause to families,” Sen. Landrieu said. “Tornadoes have impacted countless communities across the plains and southeast. The best way to withstand these disasters is to be prepared before they happen. That is why I want to thank my colleague Representative Tom Cole for his partnership in this effort as his district has seen firsthand how destructive these tornadoes can be to homes and businesses. Allowing impacted families to use these SBA mitigation loans for tornado safe rooms is a common sense way to keep families safe in the path of future tornadoes and other possible dangers.” “I am pleased to introduce the House version of the Tornado Family Safety Act with my colleague Senator Mary Landrieu,” said Rep. Cole. “As we’ve seen in years past and most recently in May, tornadoes can cause unbelievable destruction to entire neighborhoods and shake communities. No one could expect the monstrous storm that tore through my hometown on May 20, but as we rebuild, it makes sense to construct homes that are prepared to face future disasters. This legislation will enable tornado victims to use SBA mitigation loans to construct safe rooms, as they rebuild the homes they lost. As Oklahomans, we have learned to anticipate these disasters each year, and while we can never truly know what each year will bring, this legislation may help ease the minds of those who have suffered unbelievable losses in the past.” Under guidelines from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the International Code Council (ICC), a safe room should withstand 250 mph winds and the impact of a 15-pound plank hitting a wall at 100 mph, according to the Insurance Institute for Business and Home Safety. Safe rooms designed to the FEMA and ICC standards are recommended for both tornadoes and hurricanes. For individual homes, a safe room could range anywhere from $3,000 to $12,000 Examples of current SBA mitigation activities include retaining walls, sea walls, grading and contouring land, relocating utilities and modifying structures. The bill would add safe rooms as an eligible mitigation activity so that homeowners would have access to these low-interest loans. It does not replace or duplicate other Federal programs that may provide for safe rooms. The bill would allow a backstop to impacted families in the event that other Federal funds are not available for tornado safe rooms after disasters. ###Contact:Sarah Corley (202) 225 - 6165 (Cole)Rob Sawicki (202) 224 - 5175 (Landrieu)
07.24.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 2397, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, on Wednesday. The legislation provides funding for critical security programs, supports our dedicated troops and continues current military operations. “I am pleased that the House passed the Defense Appropriations Act today,” said Cole. “We truly have the greatest military in the world, and today’s vote proves that we value those who put their lives on the line every day, whether that be here at home or while serving abroad. Even though difficult choices and reductions were made, this legislation preserves our quality military, provides sustainability for our national defense and ensures that we are prepared for future threats to our safety.” Cole offered an amendment which prevents funds from being used to implement a furlough, if the reason given is sequestration. Relief would be given to Defense Department employees paid from the Working Capital Fund. This amendment passed the House on Tuesday evening and is a part of H.R. 2397 that passed today. “I am pleased that the House displayed true bipartisanship through votes on numerous amendments and final passage of the Defense Appropriations Act,” Cole continued. “Not only did we support preservation of our military, but we voted to prevent needless furloughs for civilian personnel paid from the Working Capital Fund. Currently, Air Logistics Centers at Tinker, Hill and Robins account for 26,087 people affected by these furloughs. At Tinker Air Force Base alone, more than 9,000 of the total 14,000 furloughed have salaries provided through this fund. “Today was an encouraging for the future and preservation of our defense system. As the Senate takes up its own version of the bill in the coming weeks, I hope for a quick reconciliation, so we can continue to support our valued military.” ###Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225 - 6165
07.24.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (R-OK) released the following statement after House passage of his amendment which prevents funds from being used to implement a furlough, if the reason given is sequestration. Relief would be given to Defense Department employees paid from the Working Capital Fund. The amendment, offered along with Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) and Congressmen Derek Kilmer (D-WA), Rob Bishop (R-UT) and Dave Loebsack (D-IA), passed the House of Representatives by voice vote Tuesday night. This amendment would affect approximately 180,000 civilian workers in WCF units whose salaries are not paid through direct appropriations and, therefore, should be exempt from cuts due to sequestration. Air Logistics Centers at Tinker, Hill and Robbins have 26,087 civilian personnel affected. “I am pleased that the House came together to pass an amendment that protects civilian workers from needless furloughs,” said Cole. “Working Capital Fund employees continue to work even during administrative furloughs like those imposed by government shutdowns after failure to pass appropriations bills. There is no reason for furlough of these workers when the funds for their services have already been set aside, as WCF employees are engaged in work funded with prior year money. As a result, commands where employees are paid through WCF monies have more than enough resources to avoid imposing any furlough days. “Currently, furlough exempt employees include those who are not paid directly from accounts within the Defense Department. Since WCF personnel are indirectly employed by the DOD, cuts resulting from sequestration cannot stand as a real reason. In fact, furlough actually hurts our economic recovery and costs the taxpayers more through delayed production, overhead increases and the need for overtime or transfer of workload to more expensive sources of work. “Yesterday’s vote is a true display of bipartisanship and shows our dedication to protecting valuable personnel and finding real solutions to our debt,” concluded Cole. This is a first step in the legislative process. The Senate will consider its version of the Defense Appropriations Bill, and the two versions will be reconciled in the coming weeks. To watch last night’s debate on the amendment to H.R. 2397, including remarks from Congressman Cole, Majority Whip McCarthy and Congressmen Kilmer, Bishop and Loebsack, click here. ###Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225 - 6165
07.17.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after passage of two bills that addressed the Obamacare mandate on individuals and businesses. The Authority for Mandate Delay Act (H.R. 2667) provides the Administration with a constitutional way to enact the mandate delay on businesses while the Fairness for American Families Act (H.R. 2668) extends the delay to individuals as well. “Earlier this month, the Administration quietly announced its intention to delay the mandate on businesses to purchase healthcare for their employees,” said Cole. “The announcement itself was not only suspicious but hardly official since it came in the form of blog posts on the White House and Treasury Department websites, rather than a press statement or conference. In addition, it was announced over a holiday weekend, pointing to downplay of Obamacare’s failure. “The fact that businesses are being excused from the healthcare mandate reminds us that Obamacare as conceived is unworkable. Beyond that, the president cannot be permitted to pick and choose which portions of his law that he desires to enforce. Through the Authority for Mandate Delay Act, Congress sets a constitutional way to enact his intended delay of the law for businesses. “Even though businesses have been granted a break from providing unaffordable, unworkable healthcare for another year, individuals are still required to purchase it. This expectation is unfair to our nation’s families and does nothing to inspire confidence in the president’s healthcare reform. I am pleased that the House passed the Fairness for American Families Act to also delay the unnecessary, unfair burden of expensive insurance on individuals.”To watch Congressman Cole’s remarks on H.R. 2667 and H.R. 2668 in the Rules Committee hearing on Tuesday, click here. ###
07.11.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) praised passage of H.R. 2642, the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management (FARRM) Act of 2013. The legislation was introduced on the House floor by Agriculture Committee Chairman Frank Lucas (OK-03) and passed by a vote of 216-208 on Thursday. “Today’s vote represents victory for farmers across the country but also for our economic recovery,” said Cole. “The House came together and voted for a bill that cuts billions of dollars in wasteful spending and prioritizes quality farm programs. While there is still work to be done, we are on the right path toward providing economic stability for agriculture communities and the nation as a whole. This victory for rural America could not have been accomplished in this difficult political environment without the leadership, skill and perseverance of my friend and colleague Frank Lucas.” ###
07.03.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after President Obama announced that businesses would not be required to cover their workers under Obamacare for another year. According to the Treasury Department, this previously-mandatory requirement is being postponed in order to “simplify reporting requirements consistent with the law” and “provide time to adapt health coverage and reporting systems while employers are moving toward making health coverage affordable and accessible for their employees.” “While Tuesday’s announcement delays the burdensome, expensive requirement on businesses to cover workers under Obamacare, it doesn’t change the fact that the healthcare law is unworkable and unfair for the majority of Americans,” said Cole. “Not only was the legislation jammed through Congress, but its delayed implementation proves the negative nature of the law. By missing the deadlines imposed by the law, the Administration is now effectively admitting that the legislation is unworkable. This yet again gives us cause and motivation to repeal the whole thing and replace it. “It is difficult not to jump to the conclusion that this is done ahead of midterm elections in order that voters will not realize the negative impact and high cost of Obamacare. Try as it may, however, the Administration cannot fool the American people. We must continue to introduce and pass legislation that delays and ultimately repeals the implementation of this harmful healthcare overhaul. “Despite a small victory for businesses, this law is still unfair for the majority of Americans, who will still be forced to purchase expensive insurance or suffer fines. If the Administration is going to postpone requirements for businesses, they should also delay the requirement for individuals.” ###
06.28.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) commented on the one year anniversary of the Supreme Court’s ruling that upheld the president’s health care law. With full implementation less than six months away, the law will increase premium costs, lead to doctor shortage and create fewer jobs. “One year ago today, the Supreme Court declared that Obamacare was constitutional,” said Cole. “But support for that ruling is far from universal. That day was a dark one for hardworking taxpayers across the country because it meant lower quality and reduced accessibility of health care. While the Affordable Care Act promises affordability, the more we learn, the more we discover it will produce anything but low cost, high quality health care. As we near full implementation, higher insurance premiums, decline in access to quality physicians and fewer jobs are sure consequences of the law. “Contrary to the president’s promise that his plan would bring costs down, studies indicate that premiums will increase by at least 35 to 40 percent nationwide in 2014. Oklahoma, however, expects an even greater hit of 65 to 100 percent. These new costs come in addition to the tax increases hardworking Americans have already started to see on their paychecks or on the goods and services they purchase. “I am disappointed that the law still stands and will continue to work with my colleagues to find a workable alternative that lowers costs and that improves the access and quality of our health care system.” ###
06.27.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) joined with House Majority Leader Eric Cantor (VA-07) and Congresswomen Renee Ellmers (NC-02) and Susan Brooks (IN-05) on Tuesday to urge pediatric research. During their visit to Children’s National Medical Center, the delegation highlighted the Kids First Research Act, legislation that would redirect public funds currently used for presidential campaigns and instead use it for pediatric research to cure and prevent diseases like autism. “After visiting the children’s hospital, I was reminded yet again of the importance of pediatric research funding,” said Cole. “Childhood is something that should be full of carefree memories, but for many of the children I met Tuesday, theirs has included relentless pain and suffering due to illness. “You can truly measure the decency of society by the priorities of its people. We must prioritize pediatric research, and the Kids First Research Act does exactly that by redirecting public funds wasted on presidential campaigns. I have long been an advocate of defunding the Presidential Campaign Fund, and this legislation effectively does that and instead funds something that all Americans can agree matters. This is truly an example of two good ideas coming together to make a great idea,” concluded Cole. For a video of Congressman Cole’s remarks during the visit, click here. ###
06.27.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) and Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04), co-chairs of the Congressional Native American Caucus, released a joint statement after President Obama issued an executive order to establish the White House Council on Native American Affairs. According to the order announced on Wednesday, this new council comes with the mission “to promote and sustain prosperous and resilient Native American tribal governments.” “There is a great sense of pride that comes with being Native American,” said Cole. “At an early age, I remember my mother instilling in me the importance of our Chickasaw heritage, and I have always carried that with me. While Oklahoma celebrates our especially-rich Indian heritage statewide, tribes are not always recognized for their unique perspective and ideas at the national level. “As we continue to face difficult economic and social decisions in our country’s political future, I applaud President Obama’s decision to give Native Americans a direct voice and work to build a positive, sustainable relationship with tribal governments. He has recognized the important contributions both tribe members and their governments can offer the entire country but also the need to protect tribal sovereignty. Our nation will certainly be better because of this new council.” McCollum added, “President Obama is to be commended for recognizing the critical importance of a coordinated federal approach to engaging with tribal nations and Native Americans. This special recognition of tribal sovereignty by the White House will give Indian issues a higher profile and will hopefully put greater focus on providing better services and getting results for Indian families. At a time when sequestration is inflicting devastating harm throughout Indian Country, this Council will have an immediate opportunity to engage tribal leaders and stakeholders to responsibly meet federal trust obligations.” ###Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225 - 6165 (Rep. Cole)Maria Reppas, Matthew Hilgart (202) 225 - 6631 (Rep. McCollum)
06.27.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement in response to Tuesday’s announcement made by the United States Army. The announcement declared changes to the Army’s force structure that will impact numerous Army bases across the country, including Fort Sill in Lawton. The large-scale restructuring Army-wide will decrease Fort Sill’s size by 546 people. An Air Defense Unit will be moved from Joint Base McCord in Washington State to Fort Sill, adding 470 jobs to the force; unfortunately this number is worked into the total number of jobs lost. Currently, no reductions have been made to the Army Guard or Reserves, but the Reserve Component Program Teams (BCT’s) will match the changes to the active component of the Army. This week’s announcement, which comes after two years of analysis by the Army, is only the first step in the Army’s planned transformation due for completion in 2017. The overall reduction could be vastly different if sequestration stands and when the Department of Defense Strategic Management Review is completed and future changes are recommended. “In light of the U.S. involvement overseas in Iraq and Afghanistan and the difficult budget environment we currently face, the Department of Defense has adjusted its force structure across all branches of the military, including the Army,” said Cole. “While cuts have been made and the defense budget has already been reduced by $450 billion, we likely face even more difficult choices regarding military readiness in the future. It is a sad day when those who willingly and heroically put their lives on the line for our country each day are impacted the most.” ###
06.26.2013	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Eliot Engel (D-NY-16) and Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL-27) introduced the Open Fuel Standard Act (H.R. 2493) which would require 30 percent of new automobiles in 2016, 50 percent in 2017, and 50 percent in each subsequent year, to operate on nonpetroleum fuels in addition to or instead of petroleum based fuels. The bill also features original co-sponsors Reps. Steve Israel (D-NY-03), Allyson Schwartz (D-PA-13), Tom Cole (R-OK-04), Collin Peterson (D-MN-07) and Del. Madeleine Bordallo (D-Guam). The bill allows the full array of existing technologies – including flex fuel, natural gas, hydrogen, ethanol, methanol, biodiesel, plug-in electric drive, and fuel cell – as well as a catch-all for new technologies. This requirement would provide certainty to investors encouraging the production of alternative fuels and fueling stations and to have a variety of pumps supplying those alternative fuels. Rep. Engel said, “Our economy and our national security are threatened by our dependence on foreign oil. An Open Fuel Standard will help us to get off our oil addiction. For several years, I have championed bipartisan legislation to apply an Open Fuel Standard to all vehicles sold in America – not just those in the federal fleet. I believe achieving energy independence for our nation is of the utmost importance. We are reliant upon too many foreign governments, many of whom are far from friendly, for our oil supply. Our transportation sector is by far the biggest reason we send $600 billion per year to hostile nations to pay for oil at ever-increasing prices. Only through technology changes in our transportation sector will we make a substantial impact on our oil dependence.” Rep. Engel is a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. Rep. Ros-Lehtinen said, “An open fuel competition in our transportation sector is one of the easiest ways we can bolster our national security. Instead of providing billions of dollars to regimes antagonistic to the United States, taxpayers can reinvest their money into the American economy and jobs by supporting all of the booming fuel industries here at home. The Open Fuel Standard Act will allow all fuels, including traditional gasoline, to compete for the American consumer, lowering the price of fuel, and strengthening our energy and national security.” Every year, Americans send $600 billion overseas to buy oil mostly to power our transportation economy, which is 95% dependent on gasoline and diesel fuel. The Open Fuel Standard is an immediate and effective way to strengthen national security, lower the cost of fuel, and requires no expenditure from the federal government. Providing new cars with flexible fuel capability would cost around $100 per car and provide huge dividends to the consumer. Rep. Engel has added the Open Fuel Standard as an amendment to 10 appropriations bills over the last three years to conform with President Obama’s 2011 Memorandum on Federal Fleet Performance, to require all new light duty vehicles in the federal fleet to be alternate fuel vehicles, such as hybrid, electric, natural gas, or biofuel, by December 31, 2015. Rep. Engel has introduced the Open Fuel Standard as the lead sponsor, or co-lead sponsor, in the last three sessions of Congress. Rep. Israel said,“An open fuel standard will decrease our dependence on foreign oil while also lowering the cost of fuel for American consumers. We must reduce our reliance on foreign oil, and an open fuel standard is the perfect place to start. I encourage my colleagues to pass this common-sense, bipartisan bill.” Rep. Schwartz said, "The bipartisan Open Fuel Standard Act is simply common sense. It will decrease our dependence on oil produced by unstable, politically volatile countries, while driving economic growth and protecting our environment."Rep. Cole said, “We live in a nation teeming with great minds and innovators. For years, we’ve overlooked development and potential use of alternative fuels and instead retained an unhealthy dependence on foreign oil. I am pleased that this legislation encourages the use of alternatives, including natural gas. Oklahoma energy companies have made great strides in discovering, drilling and refining the rich supply of natural gas across the country, and their innovation will do much to move our country away from our dependence on non-domestic sources of energy.” ### Contact: Sarah Corley (Cole) Samantha Slater (Engel) Jeremy Tomasulo (Engel) Alex Cruz (Ros-Lehtinen) Gabrielle Saluta (Bordallo) Graham Mason (Schwartz) Greg Vadala (Schwartz)
06.21.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House voted on H.R. 1947, the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management (FARRM) Act of 2013. The bill was defeated on the House floor by a vote of 195-234 on Thursday. Cole supported the bill that was introduced by fellow Oklahoman and Agriculture Committee Chairman Frank Lucas (OK-03). Passage of FARRM would have saved taxpayers $40 billion by streamlining or eliminating more than 100 programs administered by the USDA, including direct payments to farmers. “I am disappointed that the House failed to vote in favor of this vital piece of legislation and prevented needed reform to agriculture programs and spending,” said Cole. “Chairman Lucas along with members of the House Committee on Agriculture worked tirelessly over the last four years to produce a bill that makes significant reductions to spending while protecting necessary programs. After more than 40 hearings and even a two-year audit of every program, there is no excuse for this failure. “This bill laid out $40 billion in budget savings, which is more than any other committee has offered yet. Due to this unfortunate failure, savings will only amount to the $6 billion already set to take effect from sequestration. “I commend Chairman Lucas for directing this piece of legislation, reviewing numerous programs and recommending necessary yet difficult funding cuts. Yesterday’s vote represents a missed opportunity for my House colleagues, the Americans we all represent and the road to economic recovery. This result is inexcusable.” ###
06.20.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House Committee on Appropriations released the fiscal year 2014 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development funding bill. The legislation, reviewed in subcommittee on Wednesday, lays out funding for the Department of Transportation, Department of Housing and Urban Development and other related agencies. Recommended funding for this bill is 15 percent lower than last year, and it prioritizes critical programs that are already receiving funds and makes reductions to lower-priority programs. Of particular note, the bill recommends $11.8 billion in funding for the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) in order to keep air traffic control towers active and avoid the threat of furloughs for air-traffic control personnel. “Due to our country’s fiscal challenges and the presence of sequestration, we must continue to prioritize funding and make difficult choices,” said Cole. “In spite of our current circumstances, I am pleased that this bill maintains our current commitments and fully funds critical programs like our country’s air traffic control system. About a third of FAA employees serve as air traffic controllers, and these individuals directly impact the efficiency and safety of our aviation system nationwide. The bill appropriates funds specifically for the contract tower program and control tower cost share program, preventing the FAA from moving money from contract towers to cover other potential shortfalls. “We must reduce the deficit and continue to prioritize our spending. This bill proves that even in hard times, we are willing to make difficult choices.” ###
06.18.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) issued the following statement after supporting H.R. 1797, the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act. This legislation would ban abortions on pregnancies at 20 weeks gestation or later, at which time medical research has proven unborn children feel pain when aborted. “After the recent trial of Philadelphia abortionist Kermit Gosnell, we are still shaken by the horrors surrounding the abortion industry, especially in late-term pregnancies,” said Cole. “For the first time, many unsuspecting individuals were uncomfortably introduced to appalling practices and procedures carried out regularly by abortionists in the name of women’s reproductive rights. These are images that will not go away or get easier to view with time. This is the reality of a crooked, horrific industry that endangers women and kills unborn children. “I am pleased that my House colleagues joined together today to support the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, which places a ban on abortions at 20 weeks or later. Through this legislation, we can prevent others like Gosnell from performing unsafe abortions and inflicting unnecessary, undeserved pain upon unborn children.” ###
06.14.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Markwayne Mullin this week introduced H.R. 2319, the Native American Veterans’ Memorial Amendments Act. This legislation amends the Native American Veterans’ Memorial Establishment Act of 1994 to allow the National Museum of the American Indian to construct a memorial to Native Veterans on the museum’s grounds, which is on the National Mall. Current law authorizes a memorial inside the confines of the museum, but there is not sufficient space within the facility to construct a proper tribute to Native American Veterans. A Cherokee, and a member of the Natural Resources subcommittee on Indian and Alaskan Native Affairs, Mullin noted the importance of the introduction and passage of H.R. 2319. “Our Native American heritage is one we can take pride in and one we should respectfully honor,” said Mullin. “Passage of this legislation is vital to get this project off the ground and get our brave Native Americans who fought for our freedoms the memorial they deserve. I thank my colleagues for their support and look forward to working together as we pay tribute to our Native American veterans.” Members have shown strong, bipartisan support for H.R. 2319, with 10 cosponsors including Congressman Tom Cole, R-Oklahoma and Congressman Raul Ruiz, D-California.“I am pleased to co-sponsor this legislation with Congressman Mullin,” said Cole, who is a member of the Chickasaw Nation. “We both have great pride in our Native American heritage and recognize the importance of sharing that heritage with others. It is high time that the National Museum of the American Indian is able to move forward with the construction of a memorial to honor our veterans on its grounds. This bill facilitates that goal and also approves museum fundraising efforts, paving the way for us to truly recognize those Native Americans who bravely served our country.” “Throughout American history, Native Americans have served our country with honor and bravery,” said Ruiz. “It is important that we highlight their patriotism and sacrifice with a Native American veterans’ memorial on the National Mall, and I’m proud to join my colleagues in strong bipartisan show of support for this legislation.” Cherokee Nation Principal Chief Bill John Baker said he supports the bipartisan changes in the Native American Veterans' Memorial Amendments Act of 2013. “I respect and admire any man or woman who has donned a uniform and played their role in securing and defending America’s liberties,” Baker said. “The Cherokee people have a deep tradition in American military history. Many fine young men and women have served and to all of them we owe a debt of gratitude. A memorial in DC near the National Museum of the American Indian is a fitting tribute and I thank Representative Mullin and the other sponsors for making it a priority. Every one of us has a family member with a veteran’s story. They served and they fought – and many of them died – for the freedoms that we all enjoy today. I hope we keep their history alive.” ###Contact: Ashley Kehl (202) 225 - 2701 or Angie Gallant (918) 351 - 8700 (Mullin)Sarah Corley (202) 225 - 6165 (Cole)
06.13.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the Supreme Court of the United States upheld Oklahoma water rights in the case, Tarrant Regional Water District v. Herrmann. This case challenged the terms of the Red River Compact of 1978, a congressionally sanctioned agreement allocating water rights in the Red River Basin shared by Oklahoma, Texas, Arkansas and Louisiana. Tarrant County Regional Water District, which primarily serves the Dallas-Fort Worth area, brought the case to the Supreme Court in an effort to acquire water from an Oklahoma tributary. “I am pleased by the Supreme Court’s ruling today in favor of Oklahoma’s inherent water rights as laid out in the Red River Compact,” said Cole. “This decision recognizes that as four states sharing precious water, we all have access to the water in the basin but not permission to take from whatever part we choose. “While the Dallas-Fort Worth area is rapidly growing and understandably in need of an expanded water supply, this need does not excuse water providers from taking on our side of the river. This dishonors the terms of the agreement and violates state sovereignty. Fortunately through this ruling, the Supreme Court has upheld our access and ownership of water within our state, protecting against raids on our precious Oklahoma water resources indiscriminately.” ###
06.05.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the Committee on House Administration held markups on H.R. 94 and H.R. 95. Both pieces of legislation were authored by Cole to do away with taxpayer subsidization of presidential nominating conventions and eliminate the outdated system of the public financing of elections and presidential nominating conventions. “I am pleased that the Chairman Miller and Ranking Member Brady have taken up this important legislation,” said Cole. “When the Presidential Election Campaign Fund (PECF) was created in 1973, we lived in a world without social media or even widespread use of the Internet. Today individuals can easily learn about candidates and contribute directly to the campaign of their choosing online. The institution of inexpensive or free social media strategies certainly has increased the ability of candidates to raise money. “History has proven that public assistance is no longer needed for presidential candidates to run a successful campaign. In fact, during the 2012 election cycle, the largest category of contributors totaled more $675 million to presidential candidates. Not surprisingly, both President Obama and Governor Romney opted out and raised hundreds of millions of dollars without a dime of public assistance. “Given our mounting debt, this legislation would also terminate funding for political nominating conventions. As former RNC Chief of Staff who helped organize the Republican National Convention in 2000, I can speak firsthand to the fact that major parties are more than capable of funding their own national conventions. “We must cut waste where and when possible, and both H.R. 94 and H.R. 95 point our country in the right direction,” concluded Cole.Contact: Sarah Corley (202) 225 - 6165
06.03.2013	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), Congressmen Frank Lucas (R-Okla.-3), Tom Cole (R-Okla.-4), James Lankford (R-Okla.-5), Jim Bridenstine (R-Okla.-1) and Markwayne Mullin (R-Okla.-2) today praised the decision from the Air Force to invoke Alternate Safe Haven Authorities which would except Tinker Air Force Base civilian personnel from furloughs whose homes were destroyed or declared uninhabitable as a result of the recent tornadoes in Oklahoma. "The men and women who have been displaced by the recent storms in Oklahoma deserve our full support as we continue the recovery process and begin to rebuild our communities," said Inhofe. "The Airmen and civilians at Tinker Air Force Base live in and comprise the communities surrounding the base and are among those who have lost homes and possessions as a result of the devastating storms that recently tore through Oklahoma. Today's decision from the Air Force to except the civilian employees from furloughs whose homes were lost or destroyed in the storms is another gesture of the benevolence and compassion our country continues to demonstrate to the people of Oklahoma." Congressman Frank Lucas added, “I am pleased the Air Force has announced they will be invoking Alternate Safe Haven Authorities to exempt Tinker Air Force Base civilians, whose homes have been destroyed by recent storms, from being furloughed. Removing this additional burden is necessary for these civilian employees to rebuild and get back on their feet. I will continue to keep those affected by the devastating tornadoes in my thoughts and prayers as they recover.” “The tragedy inflicted by the tornadoes is truly heartbreaking, impacting thousands of hardworking Oklahomans,” said Congressman Tom Cole. “As we continue in the recovery process, I am pleased by Tinker’s announcement today that furloughs will except employees directly impacted by the storms. Not only is this the right thing to do, but it also proves that in times of crisis, we don’t turn our backs on Oklahomans in need. The last couple of weeks have been extremely difficult for thousands of families across the state. Recovery will take time, but as Tinker has proven through this announcement, we will work through this tragedy together.” Congressman Lankford added, “I want to express my deepest gratitude to the United States Air Force for instituting an Alternate Safe Haven to exempt Tinker AFB families impacted by the tornadoes from furlough notices. The civilians employees who lost their homes or whose homes were uninhabitable after the tornadoes will now have one less burden as they seek to rebuild their homes and their lives. Our community stands ready to continue to help our friends and neighbors who lost so much from these storms and the devoted civilian employees who still face furloughs late this summer.” “I applaud the Air Force for employing flexibility and common sense in the wake of the tornadoes," said Bridenstine. "If all of the sequestration cuts were applied with rationality, federal expenses could be controlled without jeopardizing truly important programs.” Congressman Mullin continued, “The Air Force delivered great news today for those who serve our men and women in the armed forces, those who sacrifice much on a daily basis for us to live in peace. These employees work side by side with our Airmen—they are our families, our neighbors and our friends. Invoking the Alternate Safe Haven Authorities is critical for these Oklahoma families affected by the recent devastating storms. The recovery will continue for quite some time, but today’s announcement is a great first step to rebuilding. As Oklahomans, we are resilient and we will continue to remain united and work to build back stronger than before.” Secretary of the Air Force Michael Donley added, “This is the right thing to do. Despite some facing devastating personal circumstances, our Oklahoma-based civilian employees have shown their resilience time and time again. The least we can do is remove this additional burden.” Air Force Chief of Staff Gen. Mark A. Welsh III added, “I couldn’t be more proud of our Airmen and the selfless care and support they’ve shown for each other and their neighbors in the community. We will continue to support those affected by these storms in any way we can.” The Department of Defense plans to furlough civilian employees for 11 days to address budget cuts forced by sequestration. ### Contact: Donelle Harder, Jacob Heisten (Inhofe) (202) 224-4721 Sarah Corley (Cole) (202) 225-6165
06.01.2013	Norman, OK – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after more deadly tornadoes tore through the state of Oklahoma, claiming the lives of at least nine. Last night’s storms caused damage around the Oklahoma City metro area and surrounding communities, including El Reno, Yukon, Mustang and Moore. Due to relentless wind, rain, hail and floods, even areas not directly touched by the tornado still saw destruction. “Our hearts are broken after last night’s monstrous storms,” Cole said. “After experiencing a similar nightmare not even two weeks ago, Oklahomans are again being tested by extreme hardship and proving their resilience despite such widespread devastation. “The storms this May have been some of the worst experienced in years, and the damage is a reminder of the ruthless power and speed of tornadoes. We must exercise caution and heed warnings immediately. Both the National Weather Service and local meteorologists work tirelessly to advise residents, and we must continue to listen to their direction. If driving when sirens sound, people must seek shelter right away and not attempt to outrun the storm. Rescue efforts become much more difficult for emergency vehicles when drivers stay on the roads and puts even more lives at risk. “Lives are precious and irreplaceable, and we must be cautious in order to avoid casualties in severe weather.” ###
06.01.2013	Norman, OK – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) visited communities affected by the severe storms across the Fourth District of Oklahoma. After the disastrous tornado tore through his hometown of Moore, Oklahoma and surrounding communities on May 20, Cole surveyed the damage and lent his support and sympathy to victims. While Moore noticeably sustained the greatest damage, several other communities in the Fourth District are currently undergoing clean-up and recovery from the storm. Last Friday, Cole traveled to Newcastle and Lawton, where he met with first responders and tornado victims. Earlier this week on Tuesday, Cole joined County Commissioner Darry Stacey to tour damaged areas in and around Little Axe. He also returned to Moore on Wednesday with Oklahoma State Representative Mark McBride. “The extent of the tornado damage in our state is widespread in its impact,” said Cole. “Without the tireless efforts of our first responders and dedicated volunteers across the state, recovery would not be possible. During every visit, I have been encouraged by the number of people helping rebuild communities that experienced damage. It is a reminder that close-knit communities in Oklahoma are there for each other in good and challenging circumstances. In the days and weeks ahead, my office will be doing everything we can to help Fourth District residents affected by this disaster.” ###
05.23.2013	Moore, OK – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) issued the following statement after the announcement that President Obama will visit Moore, Oklahoma this Sunday, May 26. “I am pleased that the President is coming to Oklahoma this Sunday,” said Cole. “By visiting Moore and the surrounding areas, he can observe firsthand the challenges that we are facing after these deadly storms. He will also have the opportunity to thank the wonderful local, state and federal first responders who have done such a tremendous job helping our community and its citizens cope in this trying ordeal. "I know that the citizens of Moore, local and state officials and the federal delegation would appreciate the opportunity to thank the President directly for all the help, support and sympathy extended by the federal government. These have been sad and difficult days for everyone in our state, particularly in my hometown of Moore. As a proud, long-time resident of Moore, I appreciate the sincere and personal attention that the President and the members of his administration have provided since the awful tragedy of May 20.” ###
05.22.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) issued the following statement supporting today’s passage of H.R. 3, the Northern Route Approval Act. After 1700 days awaiting application approval from the State Department, this legislation would finally allow TransCanada to begin building a pipeline that would extend from Alberta, Canada to the Gulf Coast and include a port in Cushing, Oklahoma. “I am pleased that my colleagues in the House continue fighting for construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline,” said Cole. “Not only is the project a wise investment in the future of American energy production, but it also strengthens our national security by reducing dependence on foreign oil. Through TransCanada’s willingness to invest $7 billion to begin construction, this pipeline project would directly create 20,000 jobs without expending any federal dollars. Through this expansion with our allies in Canada, the pipeline would be a vital step toward creating much-needed jobs, tightening our national security and lowering fuel prices. “Members on both sides of the aisle in the House and Senate have voted numerous times to approve TransCanada’s application and permit construction of the pipeline. Research has already been done that ensures no harmful effects on the environment from its construction, so needless regulations and time delays must be lifted. It’s time for the State Department and White House to acknowledge the value of this project and approve its construction.” ###
05.21.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement following Monday’s horrific tornado that destroyed neighborhoods, injured residents and left others missing or dead in his hometown of Moore, Oklahoma. The Congressman is a longtime resident of Moore, which is included in the Fourth District of Oklahoma. "The tragedy that occurred yesterday in Oklahoma is breathtaking in its scope and heartbreaking in its impact. Even in this nightmare, the people of Oklahoma and my hometown of Moore will rise to the challenge, overcome and rebuild just as they have so often in the past. "I appreciate the fact that the President reached out to me last night offering his and the First Lady's prayers and sympathy. He informed me of the FEMA and NORCOM assets and resources that are available and assured me that a disaster declaration would be issued; that was done later in the evening. The President also assured me that if there were any problems or needs to call him directly. It was a generous and gracious gesture, and I know he meant it. "I also want to thank Speaker of the House John Boehner, who reached out to offer his support and ordered that flags at the Capitol be lowered to half-mast as an expression of sympathy of all Americans for the people of Moore and the surrounding communities. My office has been deluged with expressions of sympathy and offers to help by literally dozens of my fellow House Members on both sides of the aisle. It reminds me that, in times of crisis, Americans of all parties and political points of view come together to help their fellow Americans. I saw it in the Oklahoma City bombing when I was Governor Keating's Secretary of State and liaison to the federal government. I observed it during the great tornado of 1999, and I see it again today. "I am very proud of Governor Mary Fallin and our Civil Emergency Director Albert Ashwood, who are leading our state with great skill and compassion in this challenging time. The quality of local leaders like Mayor Glenn Lewis and City Manager Steve Eddy is simply unsurpassed. They led us through the disaster of 1999, and they will do it again today. "I appreciate the tireless efforts of our first responders from Moore and all the surrounding communities. They have proven their valor and skill in incident after incident, including the Oklahoma City Bombing and the great 1999 tornado that ripped through Moore and the Oklahoma City metro area. They are doing so again in this devastating disaster. "In the days and weeks ahead, my staff and I, as well as my congressional colleagues from Oklahoma, will be doing everything we can to help those in need, comfort those who have lost family members and assist our local officials in getting the resources needed to recover and rebuild. I am confident we will get the help we need to make it through this tragedy; that is what Americans do for other Americans in tough times and challenging circumstances. "Americans are the most resilient, most determined and most compassionate people in the world. As they have demonstrated throughout their proud history, the people of Oklahoma and my hometown of Moore have those qualities in spades. We will overcome this challenge, and I know our fellow Oklahomans and Americans will be there to help us every step of the way." ### Contact: Sarah Corley 202.225.6165
05.16.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) expressed concern with the U.S. Department of Defense (DOD) and its plan to institute mandatory furloughs for civilian workers. These furloughs will amount to 11 days of unpaid leave starting July 8 until the end of the fiscal year. Nearly 800,000 workers will be affected in order for DOD to meet the required budget cuts set by sequestration. However, navy shipyards will be exempt from these mandatory furlough days. “While I appreciate the fact that, due to congressional action, we have cut the number of furlough days from 22 to 11 days, I am disappointed by the Defense Department’s decision to furlough thousands of valuable civilian workers,” said Cole. “A blanket 11-day furlough policy impacts specialized work that sometimes will not even translate into cost savings for the taxpayer. In some cases, these cuts will actually end up costing more money. The policy of mandatory civilian furloughs in every single department is misguided, and we must find a better course of action. “The possibility of sequestration was not a surprise, and it is shameful that DOD and the Obama Administration failed to plan further in advance. Instead of protecting dedicated personnel, they have resorted to painful cuts in an effort to make a political statement.” ###
05.13.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) announced support of H. Res. 36, legislation that would create a select committee to investigate the Benghazi terrorist attacks that claimed the lives of four Americans, including Ambassador Christopher Stevens. Both the supposed preventative actions and responses provided by the State Department and Obama Administration shortly after the September attack are still under scrutiny. Currently, five different House committees hold jurisdiction in separate aspects of the investigation. This select committee would streamline the process by allowing members of the bipartisan panel to have subpoena power over all the relevant information and key witnesses. With a clear deadline and mission to solve the scandal surrounding Benghazi, this committee would create one definitive report from which to take further action. “I am pleased to join with Congressman Frank Wolf and a number of my colleagues in support of H. Res. 36,” said Cole. “Eight months after the unthinkable terrorist attack on our consulate in Benghazi, Libya, we are still seeking answers to what happened that night. After all this time, we should have resolved what circumstances led to the murder of four Americans, what was done to prevent the attack and how it was handled and presented by President Obama and Secretary of State Clinton. “On Wednesday last week, the House Committee on Oversight heard the compelling testimony of three leaders from the State Department who were directly aware of the situation as it unfolded last September. This hearing made great strides in finding more answers and uncovering new developments, but there is still much to be done. Creation of this bipartisan select committee will bring us closer to the truth surrounding the attack. “This situation cannot be laid to rest or brushed aside any longer. The American people deserve to know the truth, and those involved must be held responsible. We must prevent similar attacks like this from ever happening again.” ###Contact: Sarah Corley 202.225.6165
05.08.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) mourned the loss of Lawton-native First Lieutenant Brandon J. Landrum who died last Saturday while supporting Operation Enduring Freedom. Landrum was one of five soldiers killed by a roadside bomb in Kandahar Province, Afghanistan. He was assigned Headquarters and Headquarters Company, 1st Battalion, 36th Infantry Regiment, 1st Armored Division, Fort Bliss, Texas. Landrum is survived by his parents, wife and children. “Words cannot express the debt of gratitude this nation owes Lt. Landrum,” said Cole. “Many of us will never understand the true price of freedom, but it is because of the bravery of those who wear the uniform that our country is safe and our freedom is secure. There is no greater sacrifice or demonstration of patriotism than risking one’s life to serve in combat. “We have lost a true American hero and loved Oklahoma son who will forever be missed and remembered by his family, friends and a grateful nation.” ###
05.07.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) today introduced H.R. 1850, the Home School Equity Act for Tax Relief. This legislation allows home school families to receive the same tax deduction currently offered to elementary and secondary teachers for education expenses. Currently, home school families are only eligible for this tax credit in states where they are defined as “private” schools; H.R. 1850 would make this definition apply to all fifty states. “Home school students have increasingly become recognized for their academic achievement and high performance levels,” said Congressman Cole. “As valuable contributors to our nation’s academic future and with more than 1.5 million students nationwide, it makes sense that home school families should also receive this tax credit. “Choosing to educate children at home is not an easy or inexpensive decision for parents. It requires hours of time teaching and planning, commitment by at least one parent to stay at home and thousands of dollars spent for educational supplies each year. For families in many communities, home schooling is also the only alternative to failing public schools. In order for families to continue providing quality education at home, it is essential that they have the best resources for that success. “Home school families are directly training up the next generation of leaders. We should support their continued success.” ###
04.30.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) issued the following statement after the retirement announcement of Deputy Secretary of the Interior David J. Hayes, who has served since May 2009 when he was confirmed unanimously by the United States Senate. “I note with deep regret the decision of Deputy Secretary of the Interior David Hayes to retire from public life,” said Cole. “David Hayes has been one of the most gifted and accomplished public servants of his generation. He served the Administration and, more importantly, the country with skill, integrity, vision and leadership. “Among his many accomplishments, the most noteworthy is surely his settlement of the so-called Cobell lawsuit on terms that were not only beneficial to the government but fair to hundreds of thousands of Native Americans and to tribal governments. It was David who recognized a problem and turned it into a solution, not only in terms of just compensation to Indians for years of mismanagement of their trust accounts but for tribal governments as well. His proposal to use part of the settlement to purchase fractionated lands and return them to productive use will benefit individual Indians and tribal governments in perpetuity. Moreover, the addition of a scholarship fund for needy American Indian students, as a component of the settlement, will benefit generations to come. “On countless issues, including the complex Oklahoma water issue, efforts to partner with Indian tribes for the management of federal properties and initiatives to foster and speed up the development of resources in Indian Country, David led with skill, finesse and innovation. Moreover, he did so in ways that were inclusive, bipartisan and transparent. “I wish David every success in private life. However, I certainly hope at some time in the future, he returns to public service. He is simply too gifted and capable to remain on the sidelines as the great public issues of the day are discussed, debated and solved.” ###Contact: Sarah Corley 202.225.6165
04.25.2013	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Reps. Gregg Harper (R–Miss.) and Tom Cole (R–Okla.) introduced a bill today that prioritizes pediatric research for children with special needs. The “Kids First Research Act” eliminates taxpayer financing of presidential campaigns and political party national conventions. The bill reallocates these federal resources to pediatric research within the National Institutes of Health (NIH). “Recent scientific research breakthroughs linking Fragile X Syndrome and autism have given hope to individuals and their families,” Harper said. “In order for clinical trials – and other advancements – to meet their full potential, adequate federal resources must be directed to pediatric research.” “I am pleased to introduce the ‘Kids First Research Act’ with my colleagues,” added Cole. “Each year, millions of hard-earned taxpayer dollars are spent just to fund presidential campaign efforts–a poor reflection and incorrect representation of our nation’s priorities. Through the bill introduced today, these dollars will instead be redirected to fund pediatric disease research. The need for prevention and cure of diseases like autism leaves a true legacy for generations to come. This is the sort of nation we want to build for our children and grandchildren." The proposal was announced by Republican lawmakers in conjunction with World Autism Day. Recent studies report that 1 in 50 school children are impacted by autism. Innovative clinical trials for medical therapies aiming to reverse the core symptoms of intellectual disabilities, such as autism and Fragile X-associated disorders, are leading scientists to the genetic roots of these conditions. This is why the authors believe that Congress must continue to devote resources to childhood research. “Completing these trials could affect millions of our friends and neighbors,” Harper added. “New discoveries will lead to improved diagnostics. A more timely diagnosis means more effective treatments.” Cole is a longtime advocate for ending the Presidential Election Campaign Fund (PECF). Harper’s 23-year-old son, Livingston, lives with Fragile X Syndrome, the most commonly inherited form of intellectual disabilities. He serves as a cochairman of the Congressional Fragile X Caucus. ###Contact:Adam Buckalew, Rep. Gregg Harper (MS-03)Sarah Corley, Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04)
04.19.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) remembered the tragedy of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building bombing in Oklahoma City. “Today Oklahomans still mourn the loss of the 168 lives prematurely taken 18 years ago in the Oklahoma City bombing,” said Congressman Cole. “This is a day for remembering the individuals whose days were cut short, honoring the children who have grown up without fathers and mothers, reaching out to the families and friends who lost loved ones and coming together as a community to remember. We will never forget the images of that fateful day, the sacrifice and dedication of the first responders and the support from communities across the nation.” ###
04.16.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) congratulated Mary Anne Morgan after she was crowned the 65th U.S. Cherry Blossom Queen last Friday. Morgan, who serves as Staff Assistant for the Congressman’s Washington office, is the first Oklahoman Cherry Blossom Princess to be named queen. Daughter of Mack and Marcia Morgan, Mary Anne was born and raised in Oklahoma City and graduated from Casady High School. Before joining Congressman Cole’s staff last year, she attended Vanderbilt University, where she earned degrees in Human and Organizational Development and Psychology. Morgan was selected by the Oklahoma State Society to represent her state in this year’s Cherry Blossom Princess Program, which is sponsored by the National Conference of State Societies. The program recruits young women from each state, territory and embassy to participate in a week of community, cultural and volunteer activities in the nation’s capital. During the grand ball, one lucky participant, selected by spinning a wheel, is awarded the title of queen and given a crown, mikimoto necklace and paid trip to Japan in May. As this year’s queen, Mary Anne will serve as a goodwill ambassador to Japan, where she will meet with Japanese dignitaries, tour the country on the bullet train and learn more about Japanese culture. “I am pleased to congratulate Mary Anne Morgan on winning U.S. Cherry Blossom Queen,” said Congressman Cole. “This honor is a first for Oklahoma, and I know she will make our country and state proud when she visits Japan. She is a valued staff member in Washington, and I look forward to hearing about the exciting experiences ahead for her. I am certain that she will make a great impression on all who meet her.”
04.16.2013	Washington, D.C.– Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) announced an addition to his DC staff with the recent hiring of Sarah Corley as Communications Director. Corley replaces long time Cole Communications Director Jocelyn Rogers. The daughter of Stuart and Paula Corley, Sarah was born and raised in Oklahoma City. She was involved in residential life and business student leadership at Oklahoma Baptist University, where she graduated cum laude in 2009 with degrees in Finance and Marketing. Prior to joining the staff of Congressman Cole, Sarah served in a variety of positions in the office of Congressman James Lankford, most recently as Press Assistant. “I am very excited to welcome Sarah to my staff,” said Cole. “She is a native Oklahoman who is dedicated to serving the people of Oklahoma. She is also an experienced communicator with a wealth of experience growing web and social media presence. I know she will serve my office and my constituents well, and I am thrilled to have her join our team.” # # #
04.10.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) and co-sponsor Congressman Markwayne Mullin (OK-02) today introduced legislation to protect gasoline can manufacturers from frivolous lawsuits. These companies are vulnerable to litigation due to the Consumer Product Safety Commission’s failure to issue safety standards for their product. The bill would mandate safety standards so that gas can companies can obtain liability insurance to defend themselves against baseless lawsuits. Cole previously introduced the legislation last year. Rep. Cole commented: “No American company should be forced into bankruptcy for manufacturing a safe product that a handful of people used irresponsibly. It’s a shame to have to legislate common sense, but it’s necessary in this case. The Consumer Product Safety Commission found no need to issue safety standards for a product as low risk as gas cans because it could not anticipate that adults would pour gas directly from the cans onto open fires and then sue the gas can manufacturers. Establishing a formal safety standard for gas cans will help faultless companies like Blitz USA defend themselves against frivolous lawsuits.” Rep. Mullin stated: “This legislation will provide some much needed legal certainty to manufacturers of portable gas containers. Due to unnecessary and frivolous lawsuits, Blitz USA, at one time a major employer in Miami, Oklahoma, was forced to close its doors. It is my hope that other companies can avoid the same fate through this sensible piece of legislation. At this time of economic uncertainty, we need to work with business owners to retain jobs in rural Oklahoma. I am proud to cosponsor this legislation with Representative Tom Cole and look forward to working to achieve its passage.” Miami, Oklahoma’s Blitz USA, the largest manufacturer of portable fuel containers, announced in July 2012 that it could not emerge from Chapter 11 because of the litigation environment. Since 2001, Blitz has had to deal with 41 separate cases alleging a "design defect" with portable fuel containers, most of which are due to adults pouring gasoline from the gas can onto fires. In 1980, the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) denied a petition to issue consumer product safety standards for gasoline cans. The CPSC concluded that “current information does not indicate that the design or performance of gas cans presents an unreasonable risk of injury" and further stated their belief that “the majority of accidents occur because of the way gasoline and containers are used around ignition sources.” H.R. 1456 would not eliminate litigation against gas can manufacturers or the retailers that sell them but would made all applicable voluntary fuel container standard specifications mandatory, which will 1) ensure that all containers purchased in the U.S. comply with the most up-to-date safety requirements; and 2) may bring greater legal certainty to the gas can industry.
04.10.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement regarding the release of President Obama’s Fiscal Year 2014 budget plan: “By submitting a budget that never achieves balance, President Obama has once again failed the most basic requirement of fiscally responsible governance. Raising taxes by $1 trillion and adding $1 trillion in new spending is not the approach we need to overcome our national debt and create jobs. “However, it is encouraging that the president’s budget does include modest reforms to Social Security and Medicare. Without substantial reform, these programs are headed for certain bankruptcy that will jeopardize benefits for seniors and potentially take down the entire economy. President Obama’s proposals don’t go far enough, but they provide a starting point to begin the urgent process of reform to save these programs and prevent a debt crisis. “We have a significant distance to bridge between the Republican budget that balances in 10 years and the Democratic plan that never balances. Now that all plans are on the table – including the Democratic Senate’s first budget in four years – I am hopeful that we can achieve significant progress in the coming months.”
04.08.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04), who holds a Ph.D in British history, issued the following statement on the death of former British Prime Minister Baroness Margaret Thatcher "Margaret Thatcher first came to my attention when I was a student living in London in the 1970s. One of my best British friends served as her private parliamentary secretary and several others served as Conservative Members of Parliament during her extraordinary career. My own political career began as she became prime minister and I looked upon her as a role model and trailblazer. Indeed to this day, I keep a picture of her and Ronald Reagan on my desk in my congressional office. "Baroness Thatcher was the most consequential British Prime Minister after Winston Churchill in the 20th century. She led the Conservative Party out of the wilderness back into the majority and then transformed a failing socialist state into an economic dynamo that enriched and empowered its citizens while projecting power and advancing freedom on the world stage. "The partnership between Thatcher and Reagan was comparable to that between Churchill and Franklin Roosevelt. The latter helped to win the Second World War while Thatcher and Reagan did the same in the Cold War. Thatcher's career holds many lessons for us all. She showed the power of conviction and courage in the political arena, and she reminds us that when leaders lead, great goals can be accomplished in public life. "Britons admire and are justly proud of Baroness Thatcher's extraordinary life and career. But Americans also appreciate her achievements and know that her leadership in the Cold War helped to assure our own security and freedom. Moreover, her domestic accomplishments were a model for the almost simultaneous Reagan Revolution which brought America a generation of peace and prosperity. Thatcher will be remembered in America as a courageous champion of freedom and a firm friend and partner of the United States."
03.22.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The office of Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) is accepting entries for the annual Congressional Art Competition. Each spring, a nationwide high school arts competition is sponsored by the members of the U.S. House of Representatives. The Artistic Discovery Contest is an opportunity to recognize and encourage the artistic talent in the nation, as well as in our congressional district. Winning students have their artwork displayed in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. and are invited to travel to Washington with a guest to meet with Rep. Cole and attend an art workshop in the city, courtesy of Southwest Airlines. The Artistic Discovery Contest is open to all high school students in the 4th District. The overall winner of our district's competition will be displayed for one year in the U.S. Capitol. The exhibit in Washington will also include artwork from other contest winners nationwide. Entries are due to Rep. Cole’s office by April 26, 2013, and will be received at the following locations. Norman Office 2424 Springer Dr., Ste. 201 Norman, OK 73069 Ada Office 100 E. 13th St, Suite 213 Ada, OK 74820 Ardmore Chamber of Commerce 410 W Main Ardmore, OK Lawton Office 711 SW D Ave., Ste. 201 Lawton, OK 73501 For additional information or to complete an online entry form, applicants can visit: https://cole.house.gov/serving-you/art-competition
03.21.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House passed the Republican budget resolution to balance the budget in 10 years. The House also passed a continuing resolution to fund the government through September, preserving the sequester spending cuts and avoiding the threat of a government shutdown when the current funding expires on March 27. "Today’s votes mark major progress toward a balanced budget, as well as a return to the regular order under which Congress was meant to operate. “Passing a budget that balances in 10 years is a significant step that would have been impossible just a few years ago. The American people can now choose between a Senate Democratic budget that taxes more to pay for bigger government, or the House Republican budget based on the principle that taxpayers should not be punished for Washington’s irresponsible spending. “The government funding bill passed by the House and Senate avoids a government shutdown next week, preserves the sequestration spending cuts, and breaks the cycle of chaotic, last-minute negotiations that have characterized previous funding battles. “If Congress will continue to operate under regular order and stand by tough choices, real debt reduction is possible.”
03.12.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House Budget Committee and Chairman Paul Ryan released “The Path to Prosperity: A Responsible, Balanced Budget.” This fiscal year 2014 budget resolution will balance the budget within 10 years. "The Path to Prosperity budget is the right plan for our serious economic challenges. To overcome the $16 trillion debt, we need a responsible, bold proposal like the House Republican plan to balance the budget in 10 years. “President Obama’s budget plan is several weeks late, the Democratic Senate hasn’t passed a budget in over 1,400 days, and neither will produce a budget that balances. House Republicans have now produced three consecutive budgets that achieve balance without raising taxes, strengthen health and retirement programs and reform the broken tax code. We can get the national debt under control, but President Obama and Senate Democrats must meet us halfway with serious proposals of their own.”
03.06.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 933, the Department of Defense, Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Full-Year Continuing Appropriations Act of 2013. The bill will fund the government through the end of the fiscal year in September, replacing the temporary funding measure that expires March 26. Additionally, the legislation maintains sequestration cuts while providing the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs greater flexibility to cut spending without jeopardizing military readiness or the health and well-being of our veterans. "This legislation is a responsible approach that cuts spending, avoids the threat of a government shutdown, and protects our military capability. “Today marks the third time in the past year that House Republicans have acted to redistribute the sequester spending cuts in a more responsible way. This funding bill maintains the sequester but provides greater flexibility to the Department of Defense and Department of Veterans Affairs so that critical defense capabilities are maintained and our current and former service members have the resources they need and deserve. “The American people deserve better than a government that lurches from one crisis to the next, only taking action at the last minute. In passing this bill well in advance of the funding deadline, House Republicans are striving to restore order and certainty to the budget process. It is now up to the Democratic Senate to take up the legislation in a timely manner or delay action again and risk a government shutdown.”
02.28.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House passed S. 47, the Violence Against Women Act. The legislation recognizes the jurisdiction of tribal courts over non-Indian offenders arrested for committing domestic violence or assault against women. Under current law, non-Indians accused of misdemeanor domestic violence crimes against tribal members can only be prosecuted by the federal government and some states, but the U.S. Attorneys and District Attorneys do not have the time or resources to dedicate to these cases. With 75% of reported instances of abuse of native women being committed by non-Indians, tribal nations are in desperate need of alternatives to address this crisis. "Tribal authorities will finally have the same ability to police and protect their land that all other local jurisdictions already enjoy. “The absence of adequate judicial and legal authority given to tribes has made reservations places where domestic violence and sexual assaults are all too common. Hunters know where to hunt; fishermen know where to fish. And predators know where to prey. The passage of the Violence Against Women Act gives tribes badly needed tools to combat the epidemic of violence and abuse in Indian Country.”
02.12.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after President Obama delivered his annual State of the Union address to a joint session of Congress: "President Obama's assessment of the state of our union fails to appreciate the gravity of our economic challenges. "Debt reduction is the defining issue of this decade, yet the president continues to avoid proposing serious, specific solutions. Instead of taking the opportunity to be honest with the American people about the magnitude of our fiscal challenges and the danger they pose to Medicare and Social Security, President Obama largely ignored tough issues in favor of 'modest reform' ideas and false promises that require spending we can't afford. "In the short term, I was disappointed that the president failed to address the immediate challenge of the across-the-board cuts in government spending known as sequester. His failure to lead in this area by proposing meaningful reductions in mandatory spending puts the jobs of thousands of Oklahomans at risk. "The best way to strengthen the economy and create jobs is to reduce the deficit through tax reform, spending restraint and entitlement reforms. President Obama needs to understand that the campaign is over and it's time to show political courage and work with House Republicans to achieve real progress on balancing the budget."
01.31.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after House Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers announced his appointment as Vice Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development. "I'm grateful for the opportunity to serve as Vice Chair on a panel that exercises such a great impact on funding priorities. This subcommittee determines funding for transportation infrastructure projects and exercises oversight for the bloated Housing and Urban Development Department. One of our major goals is prioritizing spending away from ineffective and unnecessary programs toward infrastructure improvements that create jobs and increase safety. "I look forward to working to cut wasteful spending and ensure that necessary transportation projects are completed in the most cost-effective way possible." “The Committee’s Vice Chairs are a group of committed, knowledgeable Members, each with a deep understanding of the Appropriations process and a desire to get our federal budgets back into balance,” Chairman Rogers said. “I expect they will serve capably and dutifully, playing a very important role in what will be a challenging but hopefully fruitful Appropriations year.” Cole also serves on the Defense and Interior Appropriations subcommittees. In addition to the House Appropriations Committee, Cole serves on the Budget Committee and the Rules Committee.
01.24.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after being appointed by Speaker John Boehner to the Smithsonian Institution Board of Regents. "The Smithsonian Institution is an invaluable national resource for education and historic preservation. Millions of visitors to Washington, D.C., have enjoyed free access to Smithsonian museums and benefitted from the opportunity to learn more about our national and natural history by viewing the institution's remarkable collection of artifacts. "It's an honor to serve this distinguished organization, and I look forward to working with the Board of Regents to continue the Smithsonian Institution's prestigious legacy." Vested by Congress with the responsibility for administration of the Smithsonian Institution, the Board of Regents is made up of the chief justice of the United States, the vice president of the United States, three members of the United States Senate, three members of the United States House of Representatives, and nine private citizens. A former college instructor in history and politics, Cole holds history degrees from Grinnell College (B.A.), Yale University (M.A.), and the University of Oklahoma (Ph.D.).
01.23.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after House passage of H.R. 325–The No Budget, No Pay Act: "The Senate's failure to pass a budget in nearly four years is disgraceful. House Republicans have voted repeatedly to cut spending, but progress in reducing the debt is impossible without cooperation from Senate Democrats. "The "No Budget, No Pay Act" ensures that Senate Democrats will not be paid if they refuse to do their jobs. The legislation sets a schedule for an orderly budgeting process and prevents a repeat of the last-minute fiscal negotiations that harm the economy and jeopardize our credit rating "The House has acted to prevent debt default and work toward balancing the budget in 10 years. It is now the Senate's responsibility to act by passing their first budget in four years."
01.16.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after President Obama announced new gun control proposals: "I will oppose any legislation to limit the Second Amendment rights of law-abiding Americans, including a ban on so-called assault weapons. I represent tens of thousands of responsible gun owners who safely use guns for hunting and protection, and restricting their freedom is not the solution to gun violence."
01.03.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after being sworn in for a sixth term of Congress: "The new session of Congress must be exceptionally focused on spending restraint. House Republicans have been elected to two consecutive majorities because the American people demand serious action to prevent a debt crisis we all know is coming soon. During the last Congress, we achieved the largest single spending cut in history despite constant opposition from a Democratic Senate and president dedicated to radically expanding the size of government. "In the coming months Congress will have several opportunities to make meaningful, serious reform to our nation's economic health. House conservatives can be counted on to take a leading role in the efforts to cut spending, reduce our deficits and make serious reforms to the entitlement spending that is the number one driver of our national debt. "The American people are rapidly losing patience with a federal government that fails to take seriously the economic challenges facing our country. Any elected official who fails to understand this fact does so at their own peril." Cole serves on the Appropriations Committee, Budget Committee and was appointed this week to serve on the House Rules Committee.
01.02.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) was appointed to a seat on the House Rules Committee tonight by House Speaker John Boehner. The Rules Committee is part of the House leadership and works with the Speaker and the Majority Leader to schedule bills and set the terms of debate on the House floor. Every piece of legislation considered by the House must first pass through the Rules Committee. Cole will continue to serve on the House Budget Committee and the House Appropriations Committee. "It's a tremendous honor to be asked to serve on the House Rules Committee," Cole said. "The Rules Committee is responsible for every piece of legislation considered on the House floor. Serving on the Rules Committee while also serving on the Appropriations Committee and Budget Committee will provide a unique opportunity to influence crucial legislation to reduce the national debt. Balancing the budget will be the focus of the 113th Congress, and enacting responsible spending cuts and entitlement reform will be my top priority." The nine Republican members of the Rules Committee are personally selected by the Speaker, subject to a vote of approval by the House Republican Conference. The House Republican Conference approved the nominees this evening. Committee appointments require final approval by the full House. This pro forma action usually takes place by unanimous consent and is expected in the near future. Cole previously served on the Rules Committee during the 109th Congress and is the only Oklahoman to serve on the committee in nearly 40 years. He continues to serve as Deputy Whip for the House Republican Conference.
01.01.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House approved the Senate-passed fiscal cliff agreement to extend and make permanent low tax rates for individuals earning up to $400,000 per year and families earning $450,000. The legislation delays devastating military cuts for two months and prevents numerous other damaging tax policies including an increase in the Alternative Minimum Tax. "This agreement is far from perfect, but preventing the largest tax increase in history and making tax cuts permanent for 98 percent of taxpayers is a major victory for American workers and for the economy. "While I would prefer a combination of tax cuts and spending cuts, passage of this bill lays the groundwork for significant spending reductions in the coming weeks. With tax rate increases off the table, President Obama and Senate Democrats will be forced to confront reality and accept spending and entitlement reforms. "Passage of permanent tax relief ensures that the upcoming budget debates will be solely focused on spending restraint. Congress will have three significant opportunities in the next three months to reduce the deficit when we debate the debt ceiling, the across-the-board sequestration cuts, and the government funding bill that expires in March. The fiscal cliff is certainly not the last debate we'll have over spending, but it is the last time President Obama will be able to threaten massive tax increases to avoid addressing the real causes of our debt."
12.31.2012	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.) and Congressman Tom Cole (R-OK-4) today applauded the Senate passage of H.R. 3263, the Lake Thunderbird Efficient Use Act. This measure grants the Central Oklahoma Master Conservancy District (COMC) authority to import and store non-project water into Lake Thunderbird in order to firm up municipal and industrial water supplies for cities including Norman, Midwest City, and Del City. “The Senate passage of the Lake Thunderbird Efficient Use Act is a victory for Oklahomans dependent on the lake’s resources,” said Inhofe. “Lake Thunderbird was built to provide safe, clean water to a dry region, but due to the rapid growth of surrounding communities and the recent years of drought, the lake’s supply has not been able to meet regional demand. This legislation ensures Lake Thunderbird will continue to provide the water resources necessary to support ongoing economic growth in the Oklahoma City region.” "After another year of drought, it's more important than ever to ensure Central Oklahoma has a reliable supply of water,” said Cole. “Bringing more water to Lake Thunderbird is a commonsense solution that costs taxpayers nothing. This legislation will help ensure the area can continue its economic growth without outgrowing its water resources." Inhofe and Cole first introduced this measure during the 111th Congress, but Congress failed to act on the legislation. During the 112th Congress, Inhofe and Cole introduced this measure in their respective chambers and worked aggressively to ensure its passage. The Senate version, S.802, was considered and passed by the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee in November 2011. Its companion legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives (H.R. 3263) passed on June 6, 2012. This evening, the bill passed the Senate by Unanimous Consent. The bill now waits on the President’s desk for signature. “Passage of S.802/H.R. 3263 will allow the District and its customer cities to fully utilize its water rights and provide adequate water supplies for a thirsty region,” said Randy Worden, District Manager of the Central Oklahoma Master Conservancy District. “The continuing drought has magnified the need for this additional water. We do wish to express our sincere appreciation to Senator Inhofe and Congressmen Cole and Lankford for their enduring commitment to passage of this legislation and their vision for economic prosperity for the Central Oklahoma region.” “Passage of the Lake Thunderbird Efficient Use Act is great news for Norman and our partner cities of Del City and Midwest City, and we appreciate thespecial efforts of Senator Inhofe and Congressman Tom Cole on our behalf,” said Cindy Rosenthal, Mayor of Norman. “With water levels still more than five feet below the top of the conservation pool, Lake Thunderbird has struggled in the face of continuing drought. This legislation will open the possibility for non-project water to supplement ourvital water supplies in the future and to meet the needs of our community.” “This legislation has been very much needed to avoid a possible crisis,” said Jack Fry, Mayor of Midwest City. “The Conservancy District's ability to purchase water as a result of a drought or transfer water from other areas would be impossible without this legislation. This will provide the opportunity to avoid future problems of water supply.” “This action will be the final hurdle for Del City, Midwest City and Norman to have the ability to augment water to Lake Thunderbird which has the smallest watershed of any public lake in the State of Oklahoma,” said Brian Linley, Mayor of Del City. “This is exciting news for the future viability of Lake Thunderbird."
12.19.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 5862, his bill to allow the Quapaw Tribe of Oklahoma (O-Gah-Pah) and its tribal members to pursue their Indian trust-related claims in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims. The Quapaw Tribe sought relief in court for accounting of funds held in trust for the tribe and the tribe’s members and agreed to mediation with the federal government. However, the federal government's failure to abide by the agreement has left the tribe with no resolution or recourse for 10 years. "The Quapaw Tribe cannot effectively manage its assets and pursue economic development without a full accounting of its funds held in trust by the federal government. Despite a 10-year legal process during which the tribe fulfilled every step of its agreement with the government, the Justice Department failed to follow through, leaving this important issue unresolved. This resolution simply allows the tribe a new day in court to argue the merits of their case. "I appreciate Rep. Dan Boren's hard work on this issue, and I am pleased that my colleagues joined me in voting for this resolution. I look forward to the tribe and the government reaching a fair and equitable conclusion on the underlying claims."
12.11.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) announced that Jeff Peters will be joining his staff as field representative in the Norman region, while former field representative Josh Grogis will serve as district director. "I couldn't be more pleased to have Josh Grogis and Jeff Peters onboard. With their thorough knowledge of the area and experience in public service, Josh and Jeff will do an excellent job serving 4th District residents." Josh Grogis has served as Norman field representative since 2010. Previously, Josh handled economic, energy and health care issues as a legislative assistant in Rep. Cole's Washington office. A graduate of Stetson University, Josh served as executive assistant to the chairman at the National Republican Congressional Committee and as campaign manager for Rep. Cole's 2012 congressional election. Jeff Peters is a graduate of the University of Oklahoma and former political director for the Oklahoma Republican Party. Prior to serving at the OKGOP, Jeff worked on Lt. Gov. Todd Lamb’s campaign, served as a field representative for the OKGOP and worked as a intern for Mayor Cornett.
12.07.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla) and U.S. Rep. Tom Cole (R-OK-4) today praised the BAE Systems announcement that low-rate initial production (LRIP) of the Paladin Integrated Management (PIM) 155mm self-propelled howitzer system will be completed in the company’s Elgin, Okla. facility located in the Fort Sill Industrial Park. Inhofe said, “After years of working on this issue, today’s BAE announcement is exciting news for Elgin, Ft Sill, Oklahoma and the Army. BAE’s plan to expand the Elgin facility will mean more jobs for the area as the Paladin Integrated Management Program (PIM) provides improved technology for our Army artillery personnel. This announcement means that jobs will be moved to Elgin two to three years sooner than they otherwise would have under BAE’s old plan.” Cole said, "I applaud BAE Systems' ongoing and now growing commitment to locate the final assembly of the Army's Paladin Integrated Management Program (PIM) weapon system at their Elgin facility. Oklahoma can be proud that in addition to being home to the Army's Fires Center of Excellence at Ft Sill, the region will continue to play an essential role in equipping our troops with essential fire support for the future." The Paladin self-propelled howitzer, the 6th version of the artillery weapon system, was originally produced in the 1960s. Paladin is the Army’s Heavy Brigade Combat Team (HBCT) primary artillery system. It is also the Army’s only self-propelled howitzer system. The new PIM howitzer significantly upgrades the Paladin’s reliability, maintainability, performance, responsiveness, and lethality. PIM also takes advantage of commonality, and therefore ownership cost savings, with Bradley fighting vehicles. Due to the cancelation of the Non-Line of Sight Cannon program, the Army prioritized the development and fielding of the PIM program. According to the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Acquisition, Logistics and Technology, the Paladin is becoming unsupportable with increased track, suspension, and generator failures. Delays in the PIM program negatively impact the operational effectiveness and reliability of the Army's only self-propelled howitzer, as well as its broader indirect fire systems development program. In the FYI 2010 National Defense Authorization Act, the Army was directed to prioritize the development and fielding of the PIM program due to the cancelation of the Non-Line of Sight Cannon program. The PIM program is now proceeding on schedule. The LRIP award is expected in July 2013 with the first delivery to the Army in December 2014. Phase 1 of expanding the BAE Elgin facility will begin in mid to late 2013. The Army plans to acquire 581 PIMs.
11.05.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) today sent a letter to Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta urging him modernize the military voting system in order to remove obstacles overseas military service members face in exercising their voting rights. Cole made the following comment about the issue: "It's absolutely unacceptable that many of our military members serving overseas may not have their votes counted this year. While the Department of Defense has made some progress in modernizing the ballot-mailing system, many of the reforms have not been implemented, leading to delays that deny service members the ability to exercise their right to vote. I urge Secretary Panetta and the Department of Defense to act quickly to ensure that service members never again face obstacles to voting." Sen. John Cornyn is leading a similar effort in the Senate. Click here to view the full text of the letter.
10.29.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the death of Skip Healey: "I was shocked and saddened to learn of the death of longtime Republican and civic leader Skip Healey of Davis. Skip has been a fixture in GOP politics for over 50 years, serving as the Budget Committee chairman of the Oklahoma Republican Party for over four decades, as well as national committeeman, a district and county official and a leader in countless political campaigns at the state and national level. "No one has done more to build the Oklahoma Republican Party from the ground up than Skip and his family. He was a friend to presidents, governors, senators and politicians of every level, but his first love and concern were the volunteers and activists that form the backbone of every political party and movement. These were the people he cared about the most in politics -- and they loved him for it. "Personally, Skip Healey has been my friend, mentor, supporter and a role model for over 30 years. He taught me a lot about politics. But he taught me and countless others more about life. Skip was a true cowboy -- tough, straight, honest, loyal, generous, hard working and decent. We will not see his like again. I share the grief of Skip's lovely wife Sue, his remarkable children and grandchildren and his thousands of friends, admirers, associates and fellow Republican activists."
10.23.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the ceremony to name the Ardmore Post Office in honor of Specialist Micheal E. Phillips, who was killed in action on February 24, 2008, in Shulla, Iraq. Specialist Phillips was awarded a Bronze Star and recognized as "Distinguished Member of the 502nd Infantry Regiment." "Specialist Micheal Phillips served his country with courage and distinction, and his family honors his legacy in their work to support our troops overseas. The dedication of Specialist Phillips and all of our local service members makes our freedom and security possible. "We can never do enough to honor the sacrifices of our troops and their families, and naming the Ardmore Post Office after Specialist Phillips is one way to show Ardmore's gratitude to our military families." Cole authored legislation to rename the post office in remembrance of Specialist Phillips.
09.28.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) announced its intention to transfer $450 million in aid funding to Egypt. Cole serves on the Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, which is chaired by Rep. Kay Granger. "Increasing Egyptian aid by $450 million is unwise given the ongoing instability threatening American interests. The United States should not reward foreign governments that fail to respond adequately to attacks on U.S. citizens and territory within their borders. I support Chairwoman Granger's decision to block this funding until we can be sure it will not be misused."
09.20.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House passed H.J.Res. 118, a resolution to overturn the Obama administration's move to waive welfare work requirements. "The Obama administration's unilateral action to waive welfare work requirements undermines a hugely effective bipartisan reform that has helped lower poverty and increase employment among struggling American families since 1996. Work requirements are essential to the success of assistance programs, and President Obama's decision to remove them without congressional approval is unacceptable. The millions of people struggling in this tough economy will be much better served by maintaining proven reforms than by returning to the failed policies of government dependency."
09.19.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 5912, bipartisan legislation he authored to terminate taxpayer financing of party conventions. Since 1976, over $220 million in taxpayer funds have been spent on presidential nominating conventions for such expenses as make-up artists, political consulting fees, gift bags, banners and more. The bill passed by a wide, bipartisan margin of 310-95. "Eliminating taxpayer funding for political conventions is the easiest spending cut Congress can make. Not a single average American benefits from this outdated, unnecessary program. At a time when the defense budget and other essential government functions face steep cuts, there is no excuse to waste millions on publicity for politicians who are more than capable of funding their own campaigns. Maintaining this obsolete practice is a disservice to hardworking taxpayers, and I'm pleased that that both the House and Senate have now passed this commonsense legislation on a bipartisan basis." Democratic co-sponsor Dave Loebsack (IA-02) stated, “There is no need for taxpayers to foot the bill for the extravagance that was on display earlier this summer at both the Republican and Democratic party conventions. I am pleased the House has acted to get rid of this unnecessary taxpayer subsidy to both political parties and was pleased to work on a bipartisan basis with Congressman Cole to get it passed.” The legislation now moves to the Senate, which approved a similar policy in June by a vote of 95-4 as an amendment to the Farm Bill. In January 2011, the House passed the Cole-authored H.R. 359 to end all public funding for presidential campaigns, including conventions. Rep. Cole first introduced similar legislation, H.R. 2992, in 2009.
09.12.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) released the following statement regarding the attacks in Libya: "The sympathy and prayers of all Americans are with the families of the fine public servants who were murdered in this senseless attack. "The Libyan government owes its freedom in large measure to U.S. men and women in uniform, and Libya's complete cooperation is demanded to bring swift and sure punishment to those responsible. "These tragic events raise serious questions about U.S. involvement in Libya. The manner in which Libyan officials respond will impact whatever support they can expect from the U.S. Congress going forward."
08.02.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 6233 - the Agricultural Disaster Assistance Act. "Oklahoma's farmers and ranchers are dealing with one of the worst droughts in our history. This bill will bring much-needed relief to help them get through a tough year and the certainty to allow them to plan for next year. "The agriculture industry is vital to our state and national economy, and failing to renew these sensible disaster assistance programs during a weather emergency would be unacceptable. Agriculture Committee Chairman Frank Lucas has done an excellent job bringing this bill to the floor, and today's extension of drought relief is a good first step toward passing a comprehensive farm bill."
08.01.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 8, the Job Protection and Recession Prevention Act. The bill extends the current low tax rates for all American taxpayers and small business owners for one year, preventing a $384 billion tax increase beginning on January 1, 2013. "Raising taxes in a struggling economy would be extraordinarily damaging and irresponsible. American businesses are already overburdened with government regulations, and the prospect of massive tax hikes makes it even more difficult for them to grow and hire. "Our tax system isn't perfect, but raising taxes in the midst of 41 months of 8 percent unemployment is not the solution. Extending tax relief for at least one more year will give American families and businesses some breathing room and help our economy continue to recover from the recession. "President Obama may believe the government builds the businesses in America, but the failed $1 trillion stimulus show what happens when Washington tries to create jobs. The Senate should join us in acting to ensure America's workers and employers don't send even more of their hard-earned income to be wasted by the federal government."
07.25.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) released the following statement after House passage of H.R. 459, the Federal Reserve Transparency Act. This legislation would allow the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to conduct a full audit of the Fed and report its findings within 12 months. Under current policy, the GAO is unable to audit Fed activities related to monetary policy matters or transactions for or with foreign central banks, governments, and international organizations. "For far too long the Federal Reserve has operated under a veil of secrecy and without proper oversight. This government agency has enormous influence over the nation's economy and over the finances of every single American. Greater scrutiny and transparency are appropriate to guard against excessive intervention in our monetary policy. This bill reasserts congressional oversight and will help shine the light of day on an agency that has become too accustomed to operating in the shadows."
07.23.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) released the following statement after the House vote on H.R. 2362 - the Indian Tribal Trade and Investment Demonstration Project Act, which he authored. This legislation would eliminate red tape in the tribal leasing process to facilitate U.S. trade with international partners and help economic development on tribal land. Capitalizing on the interest overseas companies have shown in working with Indian tribes, H.R. 2362 reforms the current restrictive and archaic leasing system to promote trade with the 155 member nations of the World Trade Organization. With a vote of 222 - 160, the measure fell short of the two-thirds majority required for passage under the Suspension process. "I'm very pleased with the strong bipartisan support for the Indian Tribal Trade and Investment Demonstration Project Act. "A majority of my colleagues voted in favor of this bill to promote trade and economic development on tribal lands. Indian Country suffers from the highest unemployment rates in the nation, and these reforms would bring desperately needed economic opportunity while strengthening ties between the United States and key allies and trading partners around the world. "Although the bill did not receive the two-thirds majority vote necessary to pass under the Suspension process, I will look for opportunities to reintroduce it in the next Congress." H.R. 2362 directs the Secretary of the Interior to create a demonstration program of up to 6 tribes who are engaged with economic development with companies from foreign countries. This legislation allows the tribes in the program to develop their own guidelines for leasing, including provisions to protect the environment. The secretary would then approve those guidelines and the tribes would be allowed to operate under those guidelines without required secretarial approval for subsequent leases. These reforms have been in place for the Navajo Nation since 2000 and have helped spur development on their reservation.
07.23.2012	Our military faces devastating reductions in capability unless the Senate and President Obama will join the House of Representatives in acting to prevent debilitating spending cuts -- half of which were never meant to be enacted. The Pentagon is slated for $487 billion in cuts under President Obama's budget. That means that over the next five years, the military will be forced to carry out its missions with70,000 fewer soldiers, 20,000 fewer Marines, 25 fewer combat vessels and seven fewer aircraft fighter wings. Then there are the sequester cuts. The $1.2 trillion in arbitrary, across-the-board spending cuts collectively known as "sequestration" were designed as a threat, not as workable policy. The sequester provision was included in last year's Budget Control Act to motivate the House and Senate to agree to a responsible debt reduction plan, or else face the sequester cuts universally understood to be terribly damaging. The cost to Oklahoma's economy alone could be up to 16,000 jobs and $630 million. As we all know now, the Congressional "Supercommittee" failed to reach agreement, and the sequester cuts were transformed from ultimatum to impending reality. A vastly disproportionate 40 percent of the sequester cuts are set to come from military spending -- even though defense represents only about one-fifth of the budget. The prospect of $492 billion in cuts on top of the previously scheduled $487 billion drawdown are prompting military leaders to speak out in stark language about the consequences of such a steep and sudden reduction in resources. Even President Obama's own Defense Secretary, Leon Panetta, describes the sequester reductions as "dangerous cuts" that "would do real damage to our security, our troops and their families, and our military’s ability to protect the nation." In short, Panetta says, “We’d be shooting ourselves in the head.” The House took action in May to cancel the random sequester cuts and replace them with targeted reductions that focus on the federal budget as a whole. Predictably, the legislation was rejected by the president and ignored by the Democratic Senate. The House acted yet again on July 18 by passing the Sequestration Transparency Act. This bipartisan legislation would require President Obama's administration to provide a detailed report to Congress regarding how it intends to implement the sequester cuts set to begin taking effect in January. The sequester has already put the military in an untenable situation, and the Obama administration's failure to disclose any guidance on the reductions is causing even more uncertainty in the armed forces and undermining their ability to provide for our defense. Complying with the legislation would force the Senate and White House to confront the reality of the sequester. House Republicans also approved the Defense Appropriations Act, allocating military funding for 2013. In contrast to the irresponsible sequester cuts, this legislation makes thoughtful reductions of $28 billion and 21,000 personnel while preserving our defense capabilities. The appropriations bill serves as a lesson to those who believe the United States spends too much on defense. In reality, we spend less and less as a percentage of our federal budget and our overall wealth every year. In the 1970s, we were spending 40 percent-plus of the federal budget; this year, it's less than 20 percent. Our military spending represented 9 percent of GDP at the height of the Cold War; this year, it is barely 4 percent. These two pieces of legislation demonstrate a responsible approach to defense funding that cuts wasteful spending but maintains our ability to defend ourselves. Time is running out for the Senate and White House to join the House in working to stop the devastating sequester cuts that military leaders warn will gut our defense capabilities.
07.19.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) released the following statement after House passage of H.R. 5856 - Department of Defense Appropriations Act. Cole is a member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. "Anyone who thinks America spends too much for defense should examine this legislation. This year's Defense Appropriations bill cuts $28 billion and reduces the number of military personnel by 21,000. "The House has shown it's possible to reduce wasteful spending without jeopardizing our security, but the additional $500 billion reduction hitting the military soon will mean a real loss of capability. Over the next five years, the military will be forced to carry out its missions with70,000 fewer soldiers, 20,000 fewer Marines, 25 fewer combat vessels and seven fewer aircraft fighter wings. "The Defense Appropriations bill demonstrates a responsible approach to defense funding in a time of austerity. President Obama and Senate Democrats should follow its example and join the House in working to prevent the devastating sequester cuts that military leaders warn will gut our defense capabilities."
07.18.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) released the following statement after the bipartisan passage of H.R. 5872, the Sequestration Transparency Act of 2012. The legislation would require the president to submit to Congress a detailed report on how his administration plans to implement the sequestration spending cuts set to begin in 2013. "There is strong bipartisan agreement that the sequester is a terrible policy that should not be allowed to happen. These automatic, arbitrary cuts could cost Oklahoma's economy up to 16,000 jobs and $630 million. "The Obama administration's failure to disclose how it would implement the sequester cuts is making a bad situation worse, causing even more uncertainty in the armed forces and undermining their ability to provide for our defense. "The House acted in May to replace the sequester with targeted, reasonable spending cuts. By forcing the Senate and White House to confront the reality of the sequester, I hope they will be motivated to join the House in working to avoid the disastrous consequences of this irresponsible policy."
07.11.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) released the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 6079 - the Repeal of Obamacare Act: "The American people have made clear that they simply do not want a radical overhaul of the health care system. Obamacare is a deeply unpopular, unaffordable and unworkable bill that limits individual freedom, raises taxes, drives up health costs and mandates thousands of regulations enforced by unelected bureaucrats. "Today's vote demonstrates that House Republicans stand with the millions of Americans who believe that Obamacare is a terrible policy that should never have been passed."
07.09.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) released the following statement after President Obama announced his plan to raise taxes for families and businesses earning more than $250,000 per year. According to analysis by the Joint Committee on Taxation, the tax increases would hit 53 percent of small business income. House Republicans will vote before August to extend tax relief for all tax brackets. "President Obama has clearly learned nothing during his time in office. After 41 straight months of 8 percent or higher unemployment, a call for tax hikes is the last thing the job market needs. Businesses are already being pummeled by regulations, higher costs and uncertainty created by the president's failed policies. Raising taxes during an employment crisis is so irresponsible even Nancy Pelosi thinks the president's plan is a bad idea. Instead of trying to create political conflict, President Obama should work with Congress to extend tax relief for all Americans."
06.28.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) released the following statement after the House of Representatives voted to hold Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt of Congress due to his repeated refusal to cooperate with the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee's investigation into Operation Fast and Furious: "Today's vote sends the message that no one is above the law. As the nation's chief law enforcement officer, Eric Holder has a duty to the Constitution and to the American people to ensure that our laws are upheld. By repeatedly failing to supply subpoenaed documents and refusing to work with Congress to investigate Operation Fast and Furious, Holder has neglected his duty and denied justice for the family of Agent Brian Terry and the families of an estimated 200 Mexican nationals who were murdered with weapons paid for by American taxpayers. "Operation Fast and Furious is one of the most disgraceful episodes in the history of the Justice Department. This reckless policy resulted in the death of a U.S. Border Patrol agent, contributed to even greater instability on the Mexican border, and damaged the credibility of the U.S. government and law enforcement agencies. "Bringing contempt charges against the attorney general is a serious matter, but Holder's decision to undermine this important investigation has left Congress with no choice. It is now up to Holder and President Obama's Justice Department to end their obstruction and work with Congress to resolve Operation Fast and Furious."
06.28.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) released the following statement after the Supreme Court announced its ruling on the constitutionality of the Affordable Care Act, commonly called "Obamacare:" "While I respect the Supreme Court, I respectfully disagree with its decision to uphold the Affordable Care Act. In a sense, however, today's decision changes nothing. Although the Supreme Court ruled very narrowly that Obamacare does not violate the Constitution, it remains a deeply flawed, unworkable and damaging law. Overwhelming evidence continues to show that the law will raise insurance costs, decrease health care access, force millions of Americans into government-run health care and hurt the economy. The American people can rest assured that congressional Republicans are committed to repealing this dangerous law and replacing it with sensible reforms. "Even before being fully implemented, Obamacare is already stifling new jobs and prompting physicians to drop patients. The law also cuts $500 billion from Medicare, jeopardizing care for senior citizens. "Regardless of its constitutionality, most Americans agree that Obamacare should be repealed. House Republicans have already passed more than 30 pieces of legislation to repeal and replace this misguided law, and we will continue our efforts until the will of the American people is upheld and Obamacare is history. "Our health care system is far from perfect, but more government bureaucracy is not the solution. Rather than radically overhauling the health care system, we need gradual reforms that ensure Americans can make their own health care decisions and get affordable care. Conservative policies like medical liability reform, association health plans and freedom to purchase insurance policies across state lines can lower health costs without compromising freedom and access to care. "The final decision is now in the hands of the American people. They elected a House of Representatives in 2010 that proved willing and able to repeal Obamacare. It is imperative that they do the same with respect to the Senate and the presidency in 2012."
06.25.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) released the following statement after the Senate on Thursday voted 95-4 in favor of an amendment prohibiting taxpayer funding of political conventions. The amendment to the farm bill, sponsored by Sen. Tom Coburn, is based on legislation Cole and Coburn each introduced earlier this month. Cole has introduced similar legislation in 2009 and 2011. "The overwhelming Senate vote in favor of ending taxpayer funding of political conventions is proof that it's time to terminate this outrageous waste of taxpayer dollars. After 40 straight months of 8 percent unemployment and massive budget deficits, it would be an embarrassment to go into this year's conventions with this policy still in place. The House has already voted to end funding once. With passage of the Senate amendment, I'm hopeful that we can build on the growing bipartisan support to sign this commonsense reform into law before another dollar of taxpayer money is wasted on conventions."
06.20.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) released the following statement after the White House asserted executive privilege to prevent the release of documents subpoenaed by the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee to complete their investigation into Operation Fast and Furious: "President Obama's assertion of executive privilege can only be interpreted as a desperate attempt to hide the truth about Fast and Furious. This investigation could have been completed months ago, but the repeated refusal of Eric Holder's Justice Department to cooperate has left the Oversight Committee with no choice but to pursue contempt charges. "If the relevant documents really are privileged, the White House would have invoked executive privilege when the investigation began. Claiming executive privilege at this late date is nothing but a last-ditch effort to avoid accountability for this shocking failure of judgment. "Congress and the Justice Department should be working together toward the common goal of providing answers to the American people and ensuring that a debacle like Fast and Furious never happens again. Today's developments confirm that while the House Oversight Committee is seeking the truth, the White House is actively working to conceal it. "I appreciate my colleague James Lankford's thoughtful leadership on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee and join Oklahomans in supporting his vote in committee to hold the attorney general in contempt."
06.18.2012	Washington, D.C.— Reps. Tom Cole (R-OK) and Steve Israel (D-NY) on Friday introduced a resolution calling for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to be tried before the International Criminal Court for committing crimes against humanity. This resolution was introduced in response to estimates by the United Nations that, since the uprisings in Syria began in January 2011, more than 10,000 people—mostly civilians—have been killed and tens of thousands have been displaced. Rep. Cole said. “It is long past time for the international community to take concrete steps to stop Syrian President Bashar al-Assad from butchering his own people. Some estimate that he has killed over 10,000 civilians since the beginning of this year. In addition, through his open support of Islamic terrorism, he has the blood of thousands of Americans on his hands, as well. Trying him for crimes against humanity is the very least the world can do to stop this ongoing genocide against his own people.” Rep. Israel said, “We cannot turn a blind eye to the innocent men, women and children who have been and are being brutally murdered. Rep. Cole and I are calling on the U.N. Security Council to take action by demanding that President Assad is tried before the International Criminal Court for his horrific crimes against humanity. It is time to take action so this tragedy does not continue on our watch.” House Resolution 687 condemns the ongoing violence and gross human rights violations carried out by Syrian forces under President Assad’s watch and calls on the U.N. Security Council to refer the situation of Syria to the International Criminal Court to try President Assad for committing crimes against humanity. The International Criminal Court is the first permanent, international court established to help end impunity for the perpetrators of the most serious crimes around the world. Under the command of President Assad, Syrian government forces and shabiha have been accused of gross human rights violations including heavy shelling of civilian areas, widespread pillaging and the burning of homes, denial of basic human needs such as food, water, and medical care, unlawful detention, and brutal killings. The United Nations Human Rights Council has held Special Sessions, issued several reports and adopted five resolutions devoted to the situation in Syria. The United Nations General Assembly, Security Council, and Human Rights Council have all devoted attention to the situation in Syria, but more must be done. In recent weeks, the head of the U.N. observers in Syria has reported increased bloodshed and intensifying violence.
06.13.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) will be holding a series of town hall meetings in August. Rep. Cole will be available to answer questions and address concerns about federal legislation. Members of Cole's staff will also be available to assist residents with federal casework. For more information about the town hall meetings, contact Cole's office in Norman at (405) 329-6500. Noble Tuesday, August 7 -- 5:30 p.m. Noble Public School Administration Building 111 S. 4th Street, Noble Murray County Thursday, August 9 - 12:30 p.m. Murray County Expo Center 4000 Highway 7 West , Sulphur Marietta Thursday, August 9 - 5:30 p.m. Red River Valley Authority, Community Room Highway 32 West, Marietta Elgin Monday, August 20 - 12:00 p.m. Elgin High School Library 520 K Street, Elgin Newcastle Wednesday, August 22 - 5:30 p.m. Newcastle Community Center 705 NW 10th St, Newcastle
06.07.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) today introduced H.R. 5912, legislation to terminate taxpayer financing of party conventions. Since 1976, over $220 million of taxpayer funds have been spent on presidential nominating conventions for such expenses as make-up artists, political consulting fees, gift bags, banners and more. In January 2011, the House passed the Cole-authored H.R. 359 to end all public funding for presidential campaigns, including conventions. Rep. Cole first introduced similar legislation, H.R. 2992, in 2009. "There is no justification for spending taxpayer money on political conventions while we face a $16 trillion debt and 8 percent unemployment. It's outrageous for the federal government to waste millions on multi-day, lavish conventions that exist solely to promote presidential candidates while the military and other vital government functions are being cut. "The political parties are fully capable of funding their conventions through voluntary contributions without squandering taxpayer dollars that would be better spent saving legitimate government programs. This is a frivolous, outdated expenditure that we can't afford. "I thank Sen. Coburn for joining the effort in the Senate. The House first passed my bill to end this welfare program for politicians over a year ago, but the Senate has failed to act. With Sen. Coburn's support, I am hopeful this long overdue reform will finally become law."
06.06.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) announced that Jill Daugherty will leave her position as district director in September to accept a government relations position with the Chickasaw Nation. Daugherty has served on Rep. Cole's staff since 2003 and as district director since 2006. "Jill has served with me since my first day in office, and I've never seen a better district director. Her talent in leading staff and working within the community has been an incredible asset to the people of the 4th District. Her solid advice has been indispensable to ensuring Oklahomans' best interests are represented in Congress. "It will be difficult to replace someone of Jill's commitment, dedication, talent and personal integrity. I'm positive she will continue to play an important role in the state in her new capacity with the Chickasaw Nation, and I will continue to call upon her wise counsel."
06.05.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 3263 - Lake Thunderbird Efficient Use Act, a bill he authored to allow Lake Thunderbird to acquire and store water from outside the Bureau of Reclamation system. Any cost associated with this action would be paid for by the Central Oklahoma Master Conservancy District. The legislation has also been passed out of committee in the Senate. "Lake Thunderbird was built to provide water to a water-starved region, and this legislation would help achieve that crucial goal. Central Oklahoma is thriving, but we need a stable supply of water to continue to grow. This bill ensures we'll have the water we need, at no cost to taxpayers. I'm pleased the House has passed this commonsense solution, and I look forward to working with Senator Inhofe to achieve prompt Senate passage."
05.22.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement in response to the news that the Obama administration has hired a public relations firm to create a media campaign to promote the president's unpopular heath care law. The firm Porter Novelli was awarded a $20 million contract by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. "With out-of-control deficits, it is unacceptable to squander taxpayer money on what is essentially political propaganda. The more the American people learn about Obamacare, the more they oppose it. A $20 million ad campaign won't change the fact that a majority of Americans don't want the federal government interfering with their health care. Paying $20 million to promote a policy that may soon be ruled unconstitutional by the Supreme Court is the very definition of the wasteful Washington spending we simply can't afford."
05.11.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after being recognized by the American Conservative Union (ACU) as one of the most conservative members of Congress. The 2011 ACU Ratings Award is presented to legislators who scored 80 percent or higher on a variety of conservative issues on which Congress voted in the first session of the 112th Congress. Cole was recognized Thursday at a presentation on Capitol Hill. "Tried-and-true conservative policies are needed more than ever to prevent a disastrous debt crisis and rein in a federal government that has grown too costly and intrusive. "Liberal plans have failed to improve the economic outlook and have actually made it worse. I'm proud to have a 92 percent lifetime conservative rating and to have joined other conservatives in Congress to pass numerous initiatives to get government out of the way of job creation and balance the budget responsibly without gutting our defense capabilities. We will continue to fight for commonsense principles of fiscal discipline, a strong defense, limited government, and traditional values. "I thank the American Conservative Union for recognizing me for the ninth consecutive year and for working to hold Congress accountable to the American people." ACU Chairman Al Cardenas commented: “The ACU Conservative Award is a reflection of Representative Tom Cole’s consistent support of conservative principles on a wide range of issues of concern to grassroots conservatives in 2011. At a time when the fundamental principles of the American system of government are being challenged, Representative Tom Cole stands with those who are trying to preserve those principles.”
05.10.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after House passage of H.R. 5652, the Sequester Replacement Reconciliation Act of 2012. The bill protects the military from dangerous, arbitrary budget cuts by taking a responsible, balanced approach to cutting wasteful spending throughout the budget. Without congressional action, the military will bear a disproportionate burden of the $109 billion in automatic, across-the-board spending cuts set to take place in January 2013. "This legislation is an important step forward in restraining spending. It achieves real savings by targeting wasteful spending in every part of the budget, including entitlement programs. We've made significant progress by reducing discretionary spending two years in a row, but it's essential that we also address the true drivers of the debt. "It's impossible to balance the budget through defense cuts alone, and forcing defense spending to bear a disproportionate burden is both bad security policy and bad budget policy. Both Republicans and Democrats agree that the level of defense cuts required by sequester is unacceptable. Defense spending makes up just 24 percent of the budget but would absorb 43 percent of the budget cuts under sequester -- on top of significant cuts we've already made. "Our military men and women should not pay the price for decades of reckless Washington spending. The only way to effectively address the debt is through a balanced approach that considers defense, discretionary, and entitlement spending."
05.02.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement in response to President Obama's remarks in Afghanistan: "I appreciate the fact that the president took the chance to visit Afghanistan for the first time in 17 months and address the American people on the war for the first time in over a year. "In the long conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, our troops have done much to make our country safer and the world better. They have toppled the Taliban, brought Saddam Hussein to justice, left a functioning democracy in Iraq, killed dozens of terrorists including Osama bin Laden and degraded al-Qaeda's capabilities. "Both Presidents Bush and Obama can take credit for these achievements, but both surely know that these battles were won by the soldiers, marines, airmen, sailors, reservists, guardsmen, intelligence officers and security forces who fought them. The credit and the gratitude of the American people belong to those brave men and women in uniform and to the families who have sustained and supported them in their long and repeated deployments. "This is an important moment of transition in the ongoing war on terror. But it would be a mistake to think that war is over. There are still those who would strike at America. And we still depend on our brave fellow Americans in uniform to stand between the American people and harm's way."
04.27.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after House passage of the Interest Rate Reduction Act, which will extend the current 3.4 percent interest rates on federal student loans for one year. The cost of the bill is paid for by eliminating unnecessary spending in the president’s health care law. "In this challenging economy, a college degree is both more important and more expensive than ever. Keeping student loans more affordable gives college students a better chance to succeed, and that's good for the economy. Unlike the Democratic proposals, this legislation helps students deal with rising tuition costs without requiring taxpayers and businesses to foot the bill. President Obama should embrace this reasonable solution."
04.03.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the announcement that Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs Larry Echo Hawk is stepping down from his role in the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) to accept a position with the Mormon Church: "Larry Echo Hawk is a great friend to Indian Country. During his tenure at the BIA, Secretary Echo Hawk has worked tirelessly to resolve important issues of tribal land and sovereignty and to bring greater economic development, education and security to tribal lands. He has been a stabilizing presence at the BIA, and his efforts will benefit tribes in Oklahoma and across the nation for years to come. "On a personal note, I wish to note how much I will miss Larry Echo Hawk as a friend and a dedicated public servant. As I learned traveling across parts of Indian country in Larry's company, he is a man of deep understanding, profound compassion, enormous energy and genuine bipartisanship. He has served the first Americans and all Americans with distinction and integrity."
03.29.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House of Representatives approved H.Con.Res. 112, the "Path to Prosperity" Budget Resolution setting spending limits for 2013. The House Republican budget cuts $5 trillion, protects defense funding, reforms the tax system, and brings needed reforms to health and retirement security programs. Cole also voted in favor of the “Cut, Cap, and Balance” Budget. This budget plan was introduced by the Republican Study Committee, a caucus of House conservatives of which he is a member. Cole is a member of the House Budget Committee. "House Republicans demonstrated real leadership today in passing the only serious plan to prevent a catastrophic debt crisis. While President Obama and Senate Democrats remain on the sidelines, House Republicans are taking decisive action to address the nation's urgent economic challenges. "Conservatives have offered not one but two plans to balance the budget. Both the Ryan Budget and the Republican Study Committee Budget make the tough choices necessary to cut the deficit and avoid bankrupting our children and grandchildren. "Every year we wait to get government spending under control, the national debt becomes even harder to solve. The Path to Prosperity Budget puts the nation on the track to fiscal sanity, and congressional Democrats owe it to the American people to stop standing in the way of progress."
03.22.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House of Representatives approved the Protecting Access to Healthcare Act (PATH), H.R. 5. The legislation would repeal provisions in President Obama's Affordable Care Act to establish the “Independent Payment Advisory Board” (IPAB), a 15-member panel of unelected bureaucrats granted authority to determine cuts to Medicare. The bill would also help lower health care costs by implementing sensible medical liability reform. "The Democratic plan to give an unelected, unaccountable board of bureaucrats the authority to cut Medicare services is one of the single most egregious mandates in President Obama's health care law. Medical decisions should be made by Medicare patients and their doctors -- not by a panel of government appointees selected by the president. By repealing this outrageous policy, House Republicans will protect seniors' access to health care and come one step closer to abolishing the president's deeply unpopular law. "This legislation also helps make health care more affordable by implementing common sense medical liability reform. The PATH Act demonstrates that health care is more accessible and affordable when patients have control -- not the federal government."
03.20.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after House Republicans released their Fiscal Year 2013 budget resolution – The Path to Prosperity. Cole serves on the House Budget Committee and the House Appropriations Committee. "The House Republican budget provides serious, principled solutions to not only lower our crippling national debt but also to grow the economy and strengthen health and retirement security. "President Obama's budget proposal was nothing but campaign propaganda, and Senate Democrats haven't even produced a budget in almost three years. By contrast, House Republicans have presented a plan that cuts $5 trillion and directly confronts the nation's urgent fiscal challenges. "Our budget tackles the real drivers of our debt by reforming entitlement spending in order to save taxpayer money and protect vital health and retirement programs from bankruptcy. The plan includes pro-growth tax reform to lower rates and make the tax code more fair. Rather than making our troops pay the price for reckless Washington spending, this budget protects our defense capabilities from the dangerous cuts the president's plan would impose. "The House Republican plan is the serious budget the American people expect and deserve."
03.08.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House passed the the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act – legislation to increase access to capital, spur the growth of startups and small businesses, and make it easier for more small-scale businesses to go public and create more jobs:"The JOBS Act is the right solution to decrease unemployment because it recognizes that job growth is driven by the private sector, not by the federal government. This bipartisan legislation removes the barriers that prevent small businesses and start-ups from hiring."Small businesses create most of the new jobs in our country, yet they are the most vulnerable to excessive costs and regulations imposed by the government. The JOBS Act will get government out of the way and let American entrepreneurs thrive."
02.29.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House Committee on Natural Resources favorably reported H.R. 3263, the Lake Thunderbird Efficient Use Act: "We're now one step closer to ensuring Central Oklahoma's water needs are met. The Lake Thunderbird Efficient Use Act would supply much-needed water at no added cost to taxpayers. Solving the water shortage is vital to the area's continued economic growth, and there's a very good chance my bill will be signed into law soon. The further deterioration in lake conditions since this legislation was introduced highlights the need for action." H.R. 3263, which Rep. Cole introduced in October 2011, would allow Lake Thunderbird to acquire and store water from outside the Bureau of Reclamation system. Any cost associated with this action would be paid for by the Central Oklahoma Master Conservancy District. The legislation has also been passed out of committee in the Senate.
02.23.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) announced the names of students from Oklahoma's Fourth Congressional District who have received nominations to one or more of America's prestigious service academies."These young people represent Oklahoma's best and brightest," said Cole. "It is a privilege to nominate these exemplary students to our nation's service academies."Each year, members of Congress are given the opportunity to nominate a certain number of students from their district to the U.S. Air Force, Merchant Marine, Military, and Naval Academies. The students nominated become eligible for an appointment, and if selected will begin classes this fall.The process for receiving a nomination is highly competitive. Nominations are made based on a composite of academic factors including: school records, class rank, and SAT/ACT scores. They are also selected based on leadership potential, extracurricular activities, athletics, and physical fitness.The list below includes the names, hometowns and high school information of the students, as well as the academies to which they were nominated. At this time, the students' applications are being considered by the academies' selection committees for potential admission. Many of the students received nominations to multiple academies.Augustus Jensen: Norman, Norman High School -- Air ForceKanton Vaverka: Midwest City, Carl Albert High School -- MilitaryWill Smith: Norman, Norman North High School -- Air ForceHector Lopez: Lawton, Eisenhower High School -- MilitaryMason Arnold: Norman, Norman High School -- NavalAllison Calton: Lawton, Lawton Academy of Arts and Sciences -- Air Force, Military, Naval, Merchant MarineZachary Laurie: Yukon, Mustang High School -- Naval, Air ForceJordan Thompson: Thackerville, Thackerville High School -- Air Force, NavalJeremiah Reed: Oklahoma City, Carl Albert High School -- Air Force, NavalAnne Yoon: Norman, Mount St. Mary High School -- Military, NavalDaniel Kinnamon: Oklahoma City, Mustang High School -- Air Force, Military, Naval, Merchant MarineJordan Boone: Ada, Ada High School -- Military, NavalJackson Boone: Ada, Ada High School -- MilitaryJustin Caldwell: Lawton, Eisenhower High School -- Air Force, Military, Naval, Merchant MarineStone Hewitt: Norman, University of Miami Global Academy (home school) -- Air Force, Military, Naval, Merchant MarineCourtney Thornton: Newalla, Moore High School -- Air ForceCole Patrick: Lawton, Lawton High School -- Military
02.17.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House of Representatives approved legislation to extend the payroll tax cut for the remainder of 2012. The legislation also reforms and extends unemployment insurance and prevents cuts to reimbursement rates for physicians who treat Medicare patients: "This is not the solution I would have preferred, but taxpayers should not be punished because Democrats refuse to agree to sensible spending cuts. In addition to providing certainty to taxpayers, this legislation includes important reforms to prevent abuse of unemployment benefits. Resolving this issue prevents a tax increase for 160 million Americans and allows Congress to focus on saving trillions of dollars through comprehensive budget reform."
02.03.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) pressed Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke on the necessity of entitlement reform to balance the budget. During a hearing of the House Budget Committee on Thursday, Cole asked Bernanke if a combination of revenue increases and spending cuts would be sufficient to address long-term structural debt. In response to Bernanke's admission that Congress "could cut discretionary spending pretty close to zero and not solve the problem in the long term," Cole released the following statement: "The CBO report should be a wake-up call that discretionary spending cuts alone will not save us from a catastrophic debt crisis. While CBO projects a slow decline in discretionary spending, mandatory spending for Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security continues to grow. "One year after President Obama refused to endorse the recommendations of his own debt commission, the Republican budget remains the only comprehensive legislation to address long-term entitlement reform. The negligence of the Obama administration and congressional Democrats on this crucial issue is unacceptable. "We must move forward on meaningful entitlement reforms before it's too late." Cole serves on the House Budget Committee and the House Appropriations Committee.
01.30.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement in response to comments by Defense Secretary Leon Panetta regarding Pentagon budget cuts and potential base closures: "The Department of Defense is working within strict budget constraints outlined by the administration and Congress. However, balancing our force structure and ensuring that troop readiness is preserved in the current budget environment is paramount. Any reviews or reductions of our nation’s military infrastructure must be fair and free from political influence, and the cost of reducing infrastructure and realigning resources must not exceed the savings initially envisioned. "Moreover, it’s far from certain that Congress will agree to another round of BRAC. A strong argument can be made that the current base structure, which was a result of the last round of BRAC in 2005, was able to support rapidly expanding troop levels for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. While troop levels continue to draw down in the Middle East, the existing infrastructure and support in the United States should remain in case of future conflicts. "I believe that Ft. Sill and Tinker Air Force Base can withstand a comprehensive review of their infrastructure, capabilities and capacity to complete their missions, during both war and peacetime. They will remain an integral part of our nation’s defense."
01.24.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after President Obama delivered his annual State of the Union address to a joint session of Congress. In the spirit of bipartisan cooperation, Cole attended the speech with Democratic colleague Jan Schakowsky (Ill.)"This address was a campaign speech from a president who is unfortunately turning to partisan posturing because his failed policies won't win him another term in office. President Obama's rhetoric about equal opportunity may sound nice, but his record demonstrates that it's just code for tax increases. We learned from the failed stimulus and the president's disastrous budget policies that higher taxes and more regulations stifle economic growth and job creation."President Obama may talk tough about job creation, but his actions directly contradict his words. While House Republicans have passed 30 bipartisan jobs bills, the president worked with Senate Democrats to block them, not to mention singlehandedly destroying the 20,000 shovel-ready Keystone pipeline jobs as a favor to radical environmentalists."House Republicans remain ready to work with the president on real budget reforms and job creation policies. Unfortunately, it seems President Obama is more interested in campaigning than in getting serious about our economic challenges."
01.18.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the White House announced it is rejecting plans to move forward with the Keystone XL pipeline: "President Obama's decision to block the Keystone pipeline is indefensible. This is a purely political move that puts the president's campaign ahead of the urgent need to create American jobs. Years of extensive study show that Keystone will be just as environmentally safe as the many other pipelines already crisscrossing the nation. The president's decision means that this reliable oil supply from our Canadian allies may go to China, and America could miss out on both energy security and tens of thousands of new jobs. Republicans in Congress will continue fighting for Keystone, but President Obama's irresponsible actions have unacceptably jeopardized both our economic and national security interests."
01.05.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after President Obama announced new defense strategy priorities in remarks at the Pentagon: "These changes will make America weaker, not stronger. We are cutting defense spending and the size of our armed forces because the Obama administration is overspending in other areas, not because we have a military that is too large or overfunded. "We still live in a very dangerous world that won't be safer with fewer American soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines. Moreover, the reductions in the size of our ground forces will force the United States to continue its overreliance on the Reserve and the National Guard -- two forces that have been deployed continuously because our regular forces are simply too small to meet all the missions they have been asked to undertake. "I am also concerned that these cutbacks will slow the development and acquisition of needed new systems such as a new cannon for the Army and a new aerial refueling tanker for the Air Force. "With the long-term threat posed by China, the President is correct to place more focus on the Pacific. However, Iran's recent provocative words and actions regarding the Straits of Hormuz are just one example of the need to maintain global capabilities."
01.04.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after Boeing announced the transfer of hundreds of engineering jobs to their Oklahoma City facility: "This is great news for our state and confirms that Oklahoma is a fantastic place to do business. Boeing's decision to transfer up to 900 high-quality jobs here is a testament to the quality of our workforce, sensible tax policies, and infrastructure investment. Oklahoma continues to build on our reputation as a business-friendly state, and that should only attract more jobs in the future."
12.20.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House of Representatives voted to work with the Senate to extend the payroll tax holiday for one full year. On December 13, the House passed the Middle Class Tax Relief & Job Creation Act, which would extend the payroll tax holiday for one year, reform and extend unemployment benefits, protect access to doctors for Medicare beneficiaries, and accelerate a decision on the Keystone pipeline. The Senate payroll tax plan would only extend the tax cut for two months. "The Senate plan is simply unworkable and unfair to the American people. The nation's payroll processors overwhelmingly oppose a two-month extension because it is almost impossible to implement and creates unnecessary hardship and uncertainty. "House Republicans are committed to extending the payroll tax holiday for a full year, and we passed a bill to do that. Now 160 million Americans may be hit with a tax increase in two weeks because Harry Reid and Senate Democrats chose politics over policy. The Senate should come back from vacation and join the House in passing a responsible, one-year plan."
12.18.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the Senate approved a temporary extension of the payroll tax holiday: "The Senate bill as written merely puts off dealing with serious issues and is unlikely to pass the House in its current form. Frankly, Congress should stay in session over the holidays and hammer out a compromise that preserves the Keystone pipeline while extending the payroll tax cut, Medicare provider payments and unemployment insurance for at least a year. These things should be paid for by cutting government spending, not increasing fees and taxes."
12.16.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House of Representatives approved an appropriations bill to fund government operations for fiscal year 2012: "For the second year in a row, Congress has actually decreased spending. This bill represents a turning point from the years when Washington spending increased automatically, year after year. "This bill reprioritizes spending away from wasteful programs that do not work to those programs that are a core of what makes America what it is. It protects defense funding and increases military pay while reducing funding for a number of misguided, costly policies like Obamacare and overzealous EPA regulations. "We certainly have a long way to go to reverse the nation's disastrous spending trajectory, but with this legislation, we're firmly headed in the right direction."
12.13.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 3630 - the Middle Class Tax Relief & Job Creation Act. The bill, which was approved by the House of Representatives Tuesday, extends the payroll tax holiday for one year, reforms and extends unemployment benefits, protects access to doctors for Medicare beneficiaries, and accelerates a decision on the Keystone pipeline. "This legislation represents a reasonable solution that helps struggling Americans without raising taxes. The Middle Class Tax Relief & Job Creation Act extends the payroll tax holiday, reforms and extends unemployment benefits, and prevents cuts to Medicare physician payments. "Unlike the Democratic alternatives, this bill is fully paid for with spending cuts -- not tax increases. Maintaining the current tax cuts and benefits is important to economic growth, but it must be done in a responsible way that does not hurt job creators or add to the debt. "The House has done its work; now it's time for the Senate to act."
12.08.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 1633, the Farm Dust Regulation Prevention Act: "The proposal to regulate farm dust is one of the most absurd ideas to come out of the EPA in a long time," Cole said. "Oklahoma's farmers and ranchers are responsible stewards of their land. We don't need the federal government coming in and enforcing excessive regulations that will do nothing but raise costs and hurt productivity. This is one more example of the regulatory overreach by the Obama administration that is killing job creation. "It is very disappointing that the White House is threatening to veto this commonsense policy. Congress should certainly stand with farmers and override any veto." Cole is a co-sponsor of the bill, which passed the House of Representatives on Thursday.
12.01.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House of Representatives approved HR 3463, a bill to eliminate the Presidential Election Campaign Fund and the Election Assistance Commission. These outdated programs use taxpayer money to fund presidential campaigns and political nominating conventions. The Federal Election Commission (FEC) recently announced that the Republican and Democratic parties received $17.7 million each in taxpayer funding for their 2012 presidential nominating conventions. "The American people sent us here to cut wasteful spending, and taxpayer funding for presidential candidates is as wasteful as it gets. This legislation eliminates an antiquated, outdated system of the public financing of elections and terminates an obsolete commission. "With a $15 trillion debt, we must start cutting somewhere. If we can't cut something like this, what can we cut? These programs are clearly unnecessary. They don't feed anyone. They don't keep anyone warm. In times like these, we need to re-evaluate all of our governmental priorities and remove pieces that are useless. The Senate should act immediately to cut $650 million by eliminating this welfare program for politicians." HR 3463, which was co-sponsored by Rep. Cole and Rep. Gregg Harper (R-Miss.) would save taxpayers $650 million over 10 years. The legislation is based on HR 359, which was introduced by Rep. Cole and passed by the House in January.
11.18.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House of Representatives voted on H.J. Res. 2, a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution: "Amending the Constitution is a very serious step, but our national debt has reached such an alarming level we need bold action to bring fiscal discipline to Washington. Congress has demonstrated time and again that it will ignore any budgetary restraints we put in place. If we're going to avoid a debt crisis that will bankrupt our children and grandchildren, we need enforceable spending restraints that only a Balanced Budget Amendment would provide. By refusing to send a Balanced Budget Amendment to the American people for a vote, congressional Democrats have demonstrated once again that they are not serious about debt reduction." With today's vote of 261-165, the measure -- which passed in 1995 with 300 bipartisan votes -- failed to achieve the necessary two-thirds majority vote required for constitutional amendments.
11.16.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 822, the National Right-to-Carry Reciprocity Act, which allows law-abiding gun owners with valid state-issued concealed firearm permits or licenses to carry a concealed firearm in any other state that also allows concealed carry. "This legislation will help ensure that Americans' Second Amendment rights are respected across state lines. Just as a driver's license is valid in other states, concealed carry permits should also be honored. Oklahomans should have the same right to protect ourselves in other concealed-carry states as we have at home."
11.10.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) today released the following statement after the Federal Election Commission (FEC) announced payments of $17.7 million in taxpayer money to each political party to fund their respective 2012 presidential nominating conventions: "It's outrageous for the government to write $17 million checks to political parties when we're facing trillion-dollar deficits. The Presidential Election Campaign fund is an outdated, wasteful program that only 7 percent of Americans support. It should be an easy target for the Deficit Reduction Committee. "My bill to end the program passed with bipartisan support in the House and has been introduced by Leader McConnell in the Senate. The Senate should pass this bill to save $617 million and end this welfare program for politicians." In January, the House passed HR 359, Cole's bill to eliminate taxpayer funding of presidential candidates and political conventions. According to the Congressional Budget Office, the bill would save $617 million over 10 years.
11.02.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Members of the Oklahoma Congressional Delegation today reacted to news that Tinker Air Force Base’s (AFB) Air Logistics Center (ALC) will become the new single head for Air Force sustainment and logistics. The realignment, a move that is in line with the Defense Department’s requirement to make $450 billion in spending cuts over the next decade, will mean that Tinker will lose its current Two Star General slot, but will gain a Three Star General and a One Star General billet. According to initial information provided by the Air Force, there will be no large movements of personnel from the centers but there will be a reduction of personnel positions at Tinker Air Force Base and across the state. However, because Tinker was selected as the lead facility, the impact of losses on Oklahoma will be less than in other states. One of the delegation’s concerns is the organization and reporting responsibilities of the Aerospace Sustainment Directorate (ASD), currently under the command of the ALC Commander. While all personnel in the ASD will remain at the new Air Logistics Complexes, how that organization reports to the new Air Logistics Complex Commander to ensure continued seamless operations is still to be determined. The ASD is critical to orchestrating and integrating the support at the Air Logistics Centers and ensuring weapon systems are delivered on time and on budget. Under the new organization, the ASD will report to the new Life Cycle Management Center. The new reporting structure could undermine efficiencies and drive up long term costs at the ALCs, where decisions are quickly executed locally at the Air Logistics Center. U.S. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), a senior member of the Senate Armed Services Committee (SASC), said, “Today’s Air Force announcement that Tinker AFB will become the Sustainment Center is great news for Oklahoma. It speaks volumes of the teamwork, innovation, experience, and hard work of the Tinker team and the quality work they produce. The expertise of the ALC’s leadership at Tinker, the support of the local community and its purchase of the old GM plant have all made Tinker Air Force Base the obvious choice for this increased role. “The mission and work being done at the Oklahoma City Air Logistics Center is a source of pride for our entire state. Today’s announcement puts Tinker at the heart of the Air Force’s drive to increase efficiency and cost effectiveness while focusing on the number one goal – supporting the warfighter. However, I wish Congress would have been included more in this decision-making process. After a decade of decay in the 1990s, our ALCs are once again setting the benchmark for maintenance, repair and overhaul operations - both military and civilian. Maintaining our organic ALC capability is essential to projecting airpower across the globe. This includes enhancing key partnerships that have formed between the Air Force and industry, fostering improvements across the maintenance and repair enterprise. Tinker will now be the premiere facility. “The key measurement of the ALCs is how fast they can get aircraft and engines out the door. The realignment of the ASD under the new Life Cycle Management Center at Wright Patterson AFB could jeopardize that, and is unacceptable. Secretary Donley has assured the delegations that the Air Force would work with Members of Congress on the future structure and reporting chain of the ASD. I will continue working with the Air Force and the delegations of Oklahoma, Georgia and Utah on the specific details of the ASD located at each of the three ALCs.” U.S. Sen. Tom Coburn, M.D. (R-Okla.) said, “The decision to designate Tinker Air Force Base to the superior rank of the Sustainment Center reinforces the great source of pride the base has been, and continues to be, for the state of Oklahoma. At a time when we have thousands of troops on the ground risking their lives fighting conflicts overseas, the ability of the Air Force to increase its efficiency to be able to provide a greater amount of support to these brave men and women, is crucial.” U.S. Rep. Tom Cole (R-OK-4), a member of the Appropriations Committee and subcommittee on Defense, said, “It's a testament to the importance of Tinker's work and the quality of its workforce that the base has been selected for these vital new tasks. Strong support from the community and the longstanding commitment of Oklahoma's congressional delegation have helped make Tinker a crucial defense asset and a magnet for private contractors. "Tinker has emerged from this process stronger than many other facilities and has great potential to gain additional new missions and jobs in the future As a member of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, I will continue to do everything I can to ensure Tinker remains the nation's premier air logistics facility. "The assignment of a sustainment center and 3-star general highlights Tinker's pre-eminent role among air logistics facilities. This is a big gain for Oklahoma and an honor for Tinker." U.S. Rep. James Lankford (R-OK-5) said, “The Air Force's decision today to combine sustainment and support functions at Tinker Air Force Base is a step forward for Tinker and the state of Oklahoma. I commend the vision and foresight of local leaders and the community to make Tinker a more valuable partner in the mission of our national defense structure. Tinker has routinely demonstrated its ability to provide quality results to the warfighter in a timely manner, and I am pleased the Air Force agrees. Increasing leadership at the base is a testament to their successful ability to complete the mission at hand. “In these times of budget constraints, we are all aware of the decisions that need to be made to find efficiencies and streamline operations. I look forward to continue working with Air Force leadership and the entire Oklahoma community to implement the details of this decision.” In an October 12, 2011 press release, Chief of Staff of the Air Force Gen. Norton Schwartz Air Force said, "Air Force organizations and installations of the future may not operate the same tomorrow as they do today. In fact, we are considering a restructure of AFMC - our largest employer of civilians - to standardize processes, streamline decision making and align missions for more effective operations. The new structure will focus on reducing overhead costs and redundant layers of management while largely protecting the command's rank and file workforce." Currently, the Oklahoma City Air Logistics Command repairs and maintains bomber, refueling and reconnaissance aircraft, among others. Many crucial airborne accessories also are maintained at the center, including life-support systems. The center provides cradle-to-grave support for a variety of aircraft, including the E-3 AWACS, C/KC-135, B-52 and B-1. It is responsible for depot-level repair, modifications, overhaul and functional check flight of the B-1, B-52, C/KC-135, E-3 and the Navy's E-6 aircraft. Engines managed include a substantial inventory, from the older Pratt & Whitney TF33 to the state-of-the-art F119. Units: 72nd Air Base Wing, 76th Maintenance Wing and Aerospace Sustainment Directorate. The restructuring will be fully implemented by Oct. 1, 2012.
10.21.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement in response to President Obama's announcement that he would be recalling all American troops from Iraq by the end of the year. "The clear winners in today's announcement are Iran and Al Qaeda. I find it very disappointing that Prime Minister Maliki and President Obama were unwilling to give the effort needed to come to an agreement that was clearly in the best interests of both of our nations. "For nearly a decade the United States devoted tremendous resources - including the lives of our sons and daughters - toward establishing a democratic ally in the war on terror. Today's announcement is a major set-back to that objective. "This announcement may represent a political victory for President Obama, but it is a diplomatic defeat for the United States."
10.18.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement in response to the death of tribal official Elouise Cobell:"I was saddened to learn of the passing of my good friend and distinguished Native American leader, Elouise Cobell. Nobody fought harder for the honest management of trust assets of Indian Country than Elouise. Due to her efforts, literally hundreds of thousands of native Americans received justice and compensation for the past mismanagement of tribal assets by the U.S. Government."I was proud to work with Elouise to pass The Claims Settlement Act of 2010 which provided $3.4 billion to Native Americans' whose trust assets had been mismanaged. Leaders of her caliber are irreplaceable but her work will serve as an example to all who follow her."
09.19.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the Obama White House released its latest debt plan, which calls for $1.5 trillion in new taxes: "This proposal is more about election year politics than deficit reduction. The fact that President Obama once again failed to propose serious reforms to entitlement programs -- which are the main drivers of the debt -- shows he is interested not in solving problems but in scoring political points. "Sadly, this is typical of the president's approach to budgetary negotiations. The president failed to embrace the policies of his own debt commission, released a budget so unserious it was rejected 98-0 in the Senate, and failed to publicly put forward a plan during the debt ceiling debate. "From a White House that has failed to lead on budget issues for two years now, releasing a new economic plan virtually every week smacks of political desperation. The country would be better served by serious dialogue rather than theatrics. "
09.08.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) today released the following statement in response to President Obama's address to a joint session of Congress: "Americans have made it clear that we will not support a return to the same failed stimulus policies that brought us 9 percent unemployment, but Congress is ready to work with President Obama on proven job creation polices like tax relief and free trade. "The infrastructure investments and tax breaks the president outlined could earn bipartisan support in Congress but only if they are fiscally responsible. House Republicans will oppose any attempt to pay for new programs through tax hikes and more deficit spending."Speeches don't create jobs, but it is my hope that this address signals a new willingness to work with Congress to pass the commonsense, bipartisan solutions the American people expect."
08.12.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) announced the following schedule of town hall meetings for the month of August:Telephone town hall - August 9 @ 7:00 pmCall 405-329-6500 for call-in information Ardmore - August 10 @ 5:30 pmArdmore Convention Center - Conference Room 1 & 22401 N. Rockford RoadArdmore, OK 73401 Norman - August 11 @ 5:30 pmNational Weather Center, Room NWC 1313120 David L. Boren BoulevardNorman, OK 73072 Ada - August 15 @ 5:30 pmMcSwain Theatre132 West Main StreetAda, OK 74820 Lawton - August 18 @ 5:30 pmCETES CenterCameron University2800 West Gore BlvdLawton, OK 73505Midwest City - August 29 @ 5:30 pmProfessional Training Center1720 Hudiburg Dr., Room 108-111, Midwest City, OK 73110
08.12.2011	NORMAN – Rep. Tom Cole toured three women-owned businesses in Norman Thursday. Cole met with business owners and employees at OMS Technologies, Fancy Cakes, and Pink Elephant Cafe to learn more about the challenges facing women-owned small businesses.OMS Technologies CEO Agi Lurtz shared her company's difficulties in dealing with the impact of federal rules on their businesses and expressed concern that small businesses are at a disadvantage because they don't have large teams of lobbyists or staff that can navigate the piles of information on federal rules and regulations. Deborah Van Wagoner, owner of Fancy Cakes Etc., cited availability of capital as a chief concern, as did Pink Elephant Cafe owner Shannon Benton-Sherrod."Small businesses are the backbone of the economy, and that's certainly true in Norman," said Cole. "These women-owned businesses create jobs and help keep local commerce strong. I appreciate the opportunity to learn more about their concerns."Other tour participants and organizers included: Laura Boyd, John Woods and representatives from Norman Chamber of Commerce; Women Impacting Public Policy; and State Reps. Emily Virgin, Scott Martin, and Aaron Stiles.
08.05.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Members of the Oklahoma delegation, including U.S. Sens. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), a senior member of the Senate Armed Services Committee (SASC), Tom Coburn (R-Okla.), and U.S. Reps. John Sullivan (R-OK-1), Dan Boren (D-OK-2), Frank Lucas (R-OK-3), Tom Cole (R-OK-4), and James Lankford (R-OK-5) along with members of their staff, today sent care packages to servicemembers of the Oklahoma National Guard’s 45th Infantry Brigade Combat Team (IBCT) currently deployed in Afghanistan and Kuwait. Members of the 45th IBCT have served overseas since June and are expected to return to the United States early next year. Sen. Inhofe: “The servicemen and women of the 45th IBCT truly define the patriotic spirit of Oklahoma and our nation. Their selfless service to our nation is commendable, and I am honored to have had the opportunity to meet with these soldiers in Oklahoma and at Camp Shelby days before their deployment. These care packages are a small way of expressing our continued gratitude for their loyal service to our nation. As we keep each man and woman of the 45th in our prayers, I look forward to the day we welcome these soldiers back home. May God bless each one and bring them back safely. Sen. Coburn: “The men and women serving in Oklahoma’s 45th Infantry Brigade Combat Team embody the true meaning of sacrifice. While it is easy to get distracted by issues we face here at home, I ask all Oklahomans to join me in praying that all our troops accomplish their mission and return home safely.” Rep. Sullivan: “Members of Oklahoma’s 45th brigade are doing our state and our nation proud through their continued service - they are sacrificing so much to defend our freedoms and it’s important for them to know how much they are respected and appreciated. These care packages will serve as a reminder of how grateful we are for their service in protecting our safety, and it is my hope that these items will bring them strength and courage in the days ahead. I’d like to thank Senator Inhofe and his staff for spearheading this effort, and I proudly join my Oklahoma colleagues in sending these care packages, as well as our continued thoughts and prayers for a successful mission and a safe return home.” Rep. Boren: “Our office contributed items to care packages that will soon be sent to members of the 45th Infantry Brigade Combat Team in Afghanistan. Members of the 45th are the pride of Oklahoma. Sending them care packages is just one thing we can do to thank them for their service and sacrifice during this deployment. I look forward to the day when we can welcome these brave men and women home and reunite them with their families and friends.” Rep. Lucas: “It is an honor to support the Members of Oklahoma’s 45th Infantry Brigade Combat Team in Afghanistan by sending them care packages that shows our continued support. It is the least we can do to show our appreciation for their willingness to put their lives on the line to fight for our freedom in the United States. I also want to thank Senator Inhofe and his staff for showing leadership in coordinating this thoughtful effort, and we will continue to pray for our men and women serving in the war in Afghanistan. I can only imagine how meaningful it is to our troops serving oversees to know the folks back home are thinking about them.” Rep. Cole: "We owe an enormous debt of gratitude to Oklahoma’s 45th brigade and their families for the service and sacrifice they give on our behalf. I've met with numerous Oklahomans serving in Afghanistan, and I've seen firsthand that their skill and dedication are unsurpassed. It is my hope that these care packages will help demonstrate the appreciation and pride our state has for these brave fellow Oklahomans." Rep. Lankford: “The soldiers of Oklahoma’s 45th Infantry Brigade know firsthand the meaning of commitment to country. We are unquestionably proud of our fellow Oklahomans and their unwavering dedication to protecting our nation. These care packages are small in comparison to the sacrifices our troops are selflessly making every day to ensure our safety. We are honored to honor them.” Jane Horton, Inhofe’s congressional summer intern, coordinated the delegation package to the 45th ICBT. Horton is the wife of current 45th ICBT Spc. Christopher Horton.
08.01.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the voting in favor of the Budget Control Act: "While this agreement doesn't have everything we would have liked, there is no question that it adheres to the conservative principles we have maintained throughout this debate. We promised the American people that we would not allow a debt ceiling increase without corresponding spending cuts, that we would not allow tax hikes, and that we would advance a Balanced Budget Amendment. We have achieved all of these objectives. "This bill is less than ideal, but is a responsible solution to the default crisis and a promising start toward changing the culture in Washington and getting the debt under control."
07.30.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the voting against H.R. 2693, Senator Harry Reid’s debt limit increase bill: "The Reid plan contains so-called spending cuts that are nothing more than smoke and mirrors. More than $1 trillion of the savings in the bill come from war spending for Iraq and Afghanistan that has never been requested in the first place. The only real cuts in the legislation are aimed at defense and would put America at risk. "The chief goal of the Reid plan seems to be getting President Obama through the next election -- not cutting spending. Unlike the Boehner plan, Sen. Reid's bill does not require any additional spending reductions. "Senate Democrats have twice rejected real plans to avoid default and have now offered one that can't even get out of their own chamber. Now that the House has rightfully rejected Sen. Reid's inadequate bill, it is time for Senate Democrats to get serious and begin negotiations to avert the crisis they and the White House have caused."
07.29.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the voting in favor of the Budget Control Act of 2011: "House Republicans have now voted twice to avoid default and bring a responsible end to the debt ceiling crisis. Senate Democrats have passed nothing. President Obama has offered obstacles and veto threats but has never publicly presented his own plan. "This is not a perfect bill, but it contains major spending cuts and budgetary reforms that would have been unthinkable just a few months ago when Democrats controlled the House. Conservatives have permanently ended the days of routine debt ceiling increases, and that alone is a major victory and historic achievement. "President Obama has failed to lead and Senate Democrats have failed to act, but the House has done the right thing for the American people and taken another important step toward putting the country on a responsible fiscal path."
07.19.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the voting in favor of the Cut, Cap and Balance Act. "America is going bankrupt unless we act now to cut spending and balance the budget. "Cut, Cap and Balance is a comprehensive plan to reverse the debt and bring permanent reform to Washington spending by making immediate cuts, mandating enforceable spending caps, and letting the states vote on a Balanced Budget Amendment for the federal government. "We've heard a lot of rhetoric from President Obama, but House Republicans have put forward the only serious plan to prevent a debt crisis and avoid defaulting on America's obligations. It is past time for the president and congressional Democrats to stop standing in the way of responsible spending cuts."
07.07.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House approved his amendment to prohibit funding for military operations in Libya by a vote of 225-201. Cole offered the amendment to the FY 2012 Department of Defense Appropriations Act (H.R. 2219). "Congress has allowed the president to overreach in Libya. We should not be engaged in military action of this level unless it is authorized and funded by Congress. "This is a very important moment for the Congress and for the United States. It's extraordinarily important that we stop the erosion of the war-making authority and responsibility of the Congress of the United States, that we end this ill-advised adventure in Libya, and that we reassert the rightful place of this institution in conducting war, authorizing it and funding it." Cole's amendment specifies that "None of the funds made available by this Act may be used by the Department of Defense to furnish military equipment, military training or advice, or other support for military activities, to any group or individual, not part of a country's armed forces, for the purpose of assisting that group or individual in carrying out military activities in or against Libya."
06.24.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after voting against H.J.Res.68, a bill to authorize the use of U.S. armed forces in Libya. Cole also voted against H.R. 2278, which would maintain funding for the majority of U.S. operations in Libya while eliminating funding for only limited aspects of U.S. involvement: "The House rightly voted against authorizing U.S. force in Libya but has failed to take the next step and fully eliminate funding for this illegal and unauthorized war. By allowing operations in Libya to continue, we are in danger of eroding the constitutional war- making authority of Congress and enabling an overreaching executive branch. "Congress should reassert its constitutional authority by either authorizing the use of military force or decisively ending it by cutting off funds. "
06.23.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the Obama administration announced its decision to release 30 million barrels of oil from the nation's Strategic Petroleum Reserve: "This is a bad decision driven by political considerations rather than sound policy. The Strategic Petroleum Reserve should only be used in cases of national emergency -- not as a gimmick to artificially reduce gas prices. If the president truly wants to bring fuel prices down, he should stop blocking American energy production at every turn. Relying on our reserves without justification is short-sighted and irresponsible."
06.03.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the voting in favor of H.Res. 292, which requires President Obama to seek congressional authorization for military operations in Libya and to specify a process for withdrawal. Cole also voted in favor of H.Con.Res. 51, a resolution calling for the withdrawal of U.S. forces from Libya within 15 days. Cole introduced legislation in April to require the Obama administration to release any State and Defense department documents pertaining to consultation with Congress prior to committing U.S. forces to intervene in Libya. These requirements are included in H.Res. 292. " Gadhafi is certainly an evil man with a long record of atrocities, but the fact remains that Libya has not attacked the U.S. or our interests, has not served as a safe haven for terrorists, and has actually cooperated with the U.S. in turning over its stockpiles of nuclear-related materials and WMD. There is simply no constitutional authority or compelling U.S. interest to justify intervention in Libya -- especially when our armed forces are already fighting two wars. "In committing U.S. forces without seeking congressional authorization, President Obama has gone beyond his constitutional authority and violated the War Powers Resolution. Congress must not allow this disturbing precedent to stand, and it is appropriate that we hold these votes to enforce the Constitution and hold the president accountable. "All Americans hope for peace and freedom in Libya and throughout the Middle East, but I cannot support committing our troops to Libya."
05.31.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the voting against H.R. 1954 - a bill to implement the president's request to increase the statutory limit on the public debt. "Today's vote sends a clear signal to the markets and to the American people that we are serious about cutting spending. No longer will it be a matter of routine for Congress to automatically vote to raise the debt limit. "Now that the president's request for a 'clean' debt ceiling increase has been defeated, maybe he will offer a more realistic proposal. Any debt limit bill that is not accompanied by significant and lasting spending cuts will be rejected as irresponsible."
05.26.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole, along with Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, and Small Business Committee Chairman Sam Graves today introduced legislation that would prohibit federal agencies from collecting or using information relating to campaign contributions and other political expenditures by potential contractors in the federal procurement process.Cole's amendment addressing the issue passed the House Wednesday by a vote of 261-163, in conjunction with H.R. 1540, the “National Defense Authorization Act of 2012.”In April, the Administration floated the idea of an Executive Order requiring federal agencies to collect information about the campaign contributions and other political expenditures of potential contractors before awarding any federal contract.The “Keeping Politics Out of Federal Contracting Act of 2011” reaffirms the fundamental principle that federal contracts should be awarded free from political considerations and be based on the best value to the taxpayers. Specifically, the bill would:• Prohibit a federal agency from collecting the political information of contractors and their employees as part of any type of request for proposal in anticipation of any type of contract;• Prohibit the agency from using political information received from any source as a factor in the source selection decision process for new contracts, or in making decisions related to modifications or extensions of existing contracts; and• Prohibit databases designed to be used by contracting officers to determine the responsibility of bidders from including political information (except for information on contractors’ violations already permitted by law)."The administration's proposal would effectively politicize the federal procurement process. Under the executive order, companies could be unfairly judged on the basis of politics as opposed to their professional capabilities,” commented Rep. Cole. “Government agencies should award contracts based on merit and value to taxpayers -- not politics. Americans should have the right to support the political candidates and causes of their choosing without fear that their income will be jeopardized. This legislation protects the rights of businesses and keeps politics out of the federal procurement process." “This legislation preempts an executive order designed to silence and intimidate job creators and Americans who are passionate enough to a support cause,” said Chairman Issa. “Businesses should not have to determine and report to the government on whether certain employees contributed to organizations that support or oppose positions on issues including gay marriage and abortion. Imagine your employer asking for such information – it would happen for some if the current draft executive order is put in place.”“Forcing small businesses that are seeking government contracts to disclose political contributions will wrongly politicize the federal procurement process,” stated Chairman Graves. “Government contracts are supposed to be awarded based on merit, not political support. Both Republicans and Democrats agree that this is a bad idea because we need less politics in Washington, not more. In addition, Congress and the Supreme Court have both already weighed in on this topic, so an Executive Order would circumvent and disrespect the regular policy-making process.”U.S. Senator Susan Collins, Republican Leader Mitch McConnell, and Senators Lamar Alexander and Rob Portman introduced a Senate companion bill.
05.25.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House passed his amendment to prohibit federal agencies from imposing a requirement that companies applying for federal contracts disclose political contributions. Cole's amendment was considered in conjunction with H.R. 1540, the “National Defense Authorization Act of 2012.”The amendment addresses a draft Executive Order by the Obama administration that would require companies to disclose political activity to be eligible to apply for federal contracts."Government agencies should award contracts based on merit and value to taxpayers -- not politics. Americans should have the right to support the political candidates and causes of their choosing without fear that their income will be jeopardized. Political affiliation should not be a consideration in the federal procurement process, and my amendment will ensure that it won't be."
04.15.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) will be holding a series of town hall meetings in April. Rep. Cole will be available to answer questions and address concerns about federal legislation. Members of Cole's staff will also be available to assist residents with federal casework."This is a crucial time for the nation, and the decisions Congress makes now will determine whether we will put America back on the path to prosperity or whether our children and grandchildren will inherit an economic disaster," said Cole. "I look forward to talking with Oklahomans about their concerns and hearing their ideas."For more information about the town hall meetings, contact Cole's office in Norman at (405) 329-6500.Ardmore- Monday, April 18 @ noonArdmore Convention Center2401 N. Rockford RoadArdmore, OK 73401Marietta- Monday, April 18 @ 5:30Red River Valley AuthorityCommunity RoomHighway 32 WestMarietta, OK 73448Moore- Wednesday, April 20 @ noonMoore Public LibraryRoom A & B225 S. HowardMoore, OK 73160Chickasha- Thursday, April 21@ noonUSAOTe Ata Theater1727 W. Alabama Ave.Chickasha, OK Norman - Tuesday, April 26 @ 5:30National Weather Center, Room NWC 1313120 David L. Boren BoulevardNorman, OK 73072Ada- Wednesday, April 27 @ noonMcSwain Theatre132 West Main StreetAda, OK 74820Lawton- Thursday, April 28 @ noonGreat Plains Technology CenterMain Auditorium4500 SW Lee BlvdLawton, OKDuncan - Thursday, April 28 @ 5:30Red River Technology CenterSeminar Center3300 W Bois D Arc Ave.Duncan, OK
04.15.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement in after voting in favor of H.Con.Res 34, the House Republican 2012 budget resolution introduced by Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan. Cole serves on the House Budget Committee and the Appropriations Committee. "Today's vote marks a turning point for the economy. The Ryan Budget cuts $6.2 trillion and signals the end of business as usual in Washington. After years of reckless spending and trillion-dollar deficits, Congress has finally gotten on the right fiscal path. "The Republican budget is the only plan that has serious solutions for dealing with the main drivers of our debt. It's impossible to balance the budget without reforming the entitlement programs that constitute 60 percent of all spending. Medicare and Social Security are bankrupting the country and going bankrupt themselves. The Ryan plan saves our vital health and retirement programs without changing benefits for anyone age 55 or older. "While President Obama and his party are offering tax hikes and scare tactics, we are pursuing real solutions. We have a long way to go to overcome our massive debt, but we're finally headed in the right direction."
04.13.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement in response to President Obama's speech today on the deficit. Cole serves on the Budget and Appropriations committees. "Today's speech was the least presidential and most political President Obama has delivered yet. The president criticized and distorted the Republican budget plan without offering any substantive proposals of his own. Tax hikes do not qualify as a valid solution to our crushing entitlement debt. "The president forfeited leadership on the budget long ago, and his remarks make it even more clear that he is more an obstacle to spending reform than a participant."
04.09.2011	House, Senate Agree to Largest Spending Cut in American History WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) released the following statement after Congress approved a temporary funding measure to avert a government shutdown and agreed to pass a long-term bill to cut almost $80 billion below President Obama's 2011 budget request -- the largest spending cut in American history: "When this agreement is approved next week, it could mark the point at which we begin turning our economy around. Republicans set out to obtain necessary spending cuts and ended up achieving cuts that are truly historic and significant -- without allowing a government shutdown or compromising important principles. "A government shutdown would bring real hardship to our military families, and passing one more temporary measure to prevent that is the right thing to do. It's unfortunate that Senate Democrats have dragged this process out so long, but the important thing is that we achieve real deficit reductions. "I look forward to voting for this agreement to cut $79 billion next week and moving on to pass a 2012 budget that cuts trillions."
04.07.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) today introduced legislation requiring the Obama administration to release any State and Defense department documents pertaining to consultation with Congress prior to committing U.S. forces to intervene in Libya. Examining the documents will allow members of Congress to determine if the Obama administration complied with its requirements under the Constitution and War Powers Resolution to consult with the legislative branch before sending troops into combat operations. Cole serves on the Defense and the Foreign Operations panels of the Appropriations Committee. "Serious questions remain about the nature of the mission in Libya and whether the Obama administration's decision to intervene is constitutional. Our military is already severely strained by two wars, and now President Obama has ordered troops into a third conflict without obtaining congressional authorization or consultation as required by law. "As much as we may wish to protect innocent lives and support freedom around the world, we should not be committing U.S. troops without careful deliberation. This bill will ensure Congress has the necessary information to exercise its constitutional authority."
04.07.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 1363, The Troop Funding Bill, which was passed today by House Republicans. The legislation funds government operations for one week with cuts of $12 billion, provides funding for U.S. Armed Forces for the remainder of the fiscal year, and would avert a government shutdown if adopted in the Senate. "House Republicans have worked consistently from day one to cut spending and avoid a government shutdown. Today's vote is one more attempt to force Senate Democrats to be responsible and end the uncertainty created by their inaction. "If they refuse to accept a bill that ensures our troops get paid and provides one more week to reach an agreement on necessary spending cuts, we have to conclude they want a shutdown."
04.05.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement in response to the announcement of "A Path to Prosperity: Restoring America’s Promise," the 2012 budget proposal released today by House Budget Committee Republicans. Cole serves on the House Budget Committee and the Appropriations Committee. "The House Republican budget is more than serious -- it's revolutionary. We've reached the point where only a decisive plan can reverse our disastrous debt trajectory, and that's exactly what Chairman Ryan and House Republicans have delivered. This budget cuts $6.2 trillion, reforms our outdated tax code, and saves Medicare and Medicaid from bankruptcy. "The contrast with the president's budget couldn't be more clear. Where President Obama didn't even attempt to address the primary drivers of our debt, Budget Chairman Paul Ryan's plan represents the single most significant effort to deal with entitlement spending in more than a generation. "With this budget, House Republicans have taken the lead in the fight to save the country from fiscal catastrophe. President Obama and congressional Democrats must now choose whether to work with us or to criticize from the sidelines."
03.30.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement regarding the Government Shutdown Prevention Act, which will be considered in the House of Representatives this week: "It's been 39 days since House Republicans passed a bill to cut $100 billion and keep the government running for the rest of the year, yet the Senate refuses to act. Two things are obvious: Senate Democrats have no interest in cutting spending, and they believe a government shutdown serves their political interests. "Democrats may view a shutdown as a victory, but it certainly won't feel that way to the millions of Americans who will be affected if government agencies stop functioning. "The Government Shutdown Prevention Act would ensure that the original $100 billion in cuts we passed weeks ago would become law if the Senate continues to drag its feet. The bill further guarantees that Congress and the president won't get paid for the duration of any potential shutdown. Hopefully, the prospect of losing their pay will inspire Senate Democrats to do their jobs and join us in passing a responsible budget."
03.22.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) will be holding a series of town hall meetings in April. Rep. Cole will be available to answer questions and address concerns about federal legislation. Members of Cole's staff will also be available to assist residents with federal casework.Please contact Cole's office in Norman at (405) 329-6500 for more information about the town hall meetings.Ardmore- Monday, April 18 @ noonArdmore Convention Center2401 N. Rockford RoadArdmore, OK 73401Marietta- Monday, April 18 @ 5:30Red River Valley AuthorityCommunity RoomHighway 32 WestMarietta, OK 73448Moore- Wednesday, April 20 @ noonMoore Public LibraryRoom A & B225 S. HowardMoore, OK 73160Chickasha- Thursday, April 21@ noonUSAOTe Ata Theater1727 W. Alabama Ave.Chickasha, OKNorman - Tuesday, April 26 @ 5:30National Weather Center, Room NWC 1313120 David L. Boren BoulevardNorman, OK 73072Ada- Wednesday, April 27 @ noonMcSwain Theatre132 West Main StreetAda, OK 74820Lawton- Thursday, April 28 @ noonGreat Plains Technology CenterMain Auditorium4500 SW Lee BlvdLawton, OKDuncan - Thursday, April 28 @ 5:30Red River Technology CenterSeminar Center3300 W Bois D Arc Ave.Duncan, OK
03.15.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House approved the latest in a series of short-term budget measures to avert a government shutdown and fund the government through April 8 while cutting $6 billion in spending: "Democrats seem content to waste week after week dealing with their unfinished business from last year while our economic security hangs in the balance, but enough is enough. House Republicans have passed $100 billion in spending cuts, yet Senate Democrats can't even agree to cut $10 billion. "We take the debt crisis so seriously that we've been willing to fight for spending cuts $1 billion at a time, but it's time to end the continual threat of government shutdowns, pass a budget for 2011 and move on to other challenges. "Spending cuts are no longer a partisan issue, they are a fiscal necessity. House Republicans have passed one spending cut after another while Democrats have sat on the sidelines. Every week that Senate Democrats fail to pass a budget, they risk creating financial panic, harming our fragile economic recovery and raising doubts about our capacity to govern. "Senate Democrats have an obligation to the American people to work with us to address the $14 trillion debt, and this last temporary measure gives them one more chance to get serious."
03.03.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House approved H.R. 4 – Small Business Paperwork Mandate Elimination Act of 2011. The legislation repeals a burdensome provision of Obamacare requiring small businesses and rental property owners to file an IRS Form-1099 for any vendor with which they have more than $600 in yearly transactions. The bill reduces the deficit by $166 million in the first 10 years, cuts federal spending by $20 billion over ten years and reduces taxes by $19.7 billion: "The 1099 provision is a perfect example of the many ways President Obama's economic policies burden small businesses and stifle job growth. I've received numerous complaints from Oklahomans about the cost increases and paperwork headaches created by this onerous Obamacare regulation. Repealing it will remove a significant barrier to economic growth and job creation."
03.01.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after the House approved legislation to fund the government through March 18 while cutting $4 billion in spending: "House Republicans have demonstrated that we are committed to cutting spending and keeping the government running. Now Harry Reid and Senate Democrats must decide whether to work with us or to fight the spending cuts demanded by the American people."
02.20.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after House Republicans approved legislation that cuts $100 billion in spending from the President Obama's fiscal year 2011 budget: "Historic deficits require historic spending cuts, and that's exactly what House Republicans have achieved. We pledged to voters that we would cut $100 billion this year, and we took less than eight weeks to do it. "This week's debate makes it obvious which party wants to reduce spending. In the most open debate process in years, members from both parties offered hundreds of amendments. Republicans repeatedly introduced amendments focused on spending cuts while Democrats consistently argued to keep wasteful spending in place. "House Republicans passed the biggest spending cuts in history, but this is just the beginning. We have many tough choices ahead in order to deal with our $14 trillion debt, but taxpayers can be encouraged that we're finally going in the right direction."
02.14.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement in response to the release of President Obama's 2012 budget. Cole serves on the House Budget Committee and the Appropriations Committee. "The president's budget demonstrates a disappointing lack of leadership. America will go bankrupt unless both parties come together and make tough choices, yet President Obama has ignored our massive debt and delivered a budget that contains even more spending, taxing and borrowing. "It's going to take a lot more than a few cosmetic spending cuts to overcome our $14 trillion debt. This budget cannot be considered a serious debt reduction proposal when it avoids tackling our greatest fiscal challenge: the two-thirds of the budget consumed by Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. "It appears House Republicans should not expect support from the White House in reducing the debt."
01.26.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) today released the following statement after the House passed HR 359, his bill to eliminate taxpayer funding of presidential candidates and political conventions. According to the Congressional Budget Office, the bill would save $617 million over 10 years."Outdated programs like the Presidential Election Campaign Fund are exactly what the American people had in mind when they voted overwhelmingly to end wasteful Washington spending. This is a program that doesn't help feed or educate a single American, doesn't build one mile of road and doesn't keep us safe. The only people who benefit from taxpayer financing of campaigns are a handful of long-shot presidential candidates. It's hard to find a more narrow, privileged special interest group than that."The deficit is too high to be haggling over a useless program that only 7 percent of Americans support. We have some genuinely tough choices coming if we hope to reduce the deficit, but this is a no-brainer. If Democrats aren't willing to save $617 million by eliminating taxpayer financing of presidential campaigns, what are they willing to cut?"I appreciate Sen. McConnell's support in the Senate and look forward to working with Senate Republicans to send this commonsense proposal to the president's desk."
01.25.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) today released the following statement in response to President Obama's State of the Union address:"The President is always eloquent, but the real degree of his commitment to fiscal responsibility will be measured by actions, not words."The five-year spending freeze is a nice gesture, but with yearly spending up to over $1 trillion, we need to reverse spending, not just freeze it. House Republicans voted today to cut spending back to 2008 levels, and we don't plan to stop there. That's the kind of progress Americans expect, and I hope to see the President and Democratic Senate embrace these serious proposals to rein in spending."For the first time in four years, we have an opportunity to make real progress in reducing the deficit before it's too late. Public support for spending cuts has reached the highest levels in recent memory, and that determination is shared by the Republican majority in the House."With both the debt and the public appetite for spending cuts reaching historic highs, deficit reduction has rapidly become not only the smart option politically but the only option fiscally. If President Obama offers a legitimate deficit reduction plan, he will certainly find allies in the American people and the Republican House."I appreciated the President's remarks on civility and am optimistic that this Congress can work together to overcome our challenges. As President Obama rightly noted, the spirit and strength that made America a world leader are more than equal to the moment, and I am confident that we will take the actions necessary to preserve America's competitiveness and prosperity."
01.25.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) today released the following statement in response to President Obama's Statement of Administration Policy opposing HR 359, Cole's bill to eliminate taxpayer funding of presidential candidates and political conventions. According to the Congressional Budget Office, the bill would save $617 million over 10 years:"The Presidential Election Campaign Fund is the very definition of frivolous Washington spending. We're not talking about investing in our infrastructure or spending money to improve the lives of average Americans-- this program pays for political party conventions and to prop up the candidacies of long shot presidential hopefuls."The idea that Americans need this program in order to support candidates is absurd. It's not 1971 anymore. With online communications, it's never been easier to participate in elections. President Obama himself raised a record $745 million without accepting a dime of federal assistance, and I don't believe he would say that makes his administration beholden to special interests or that his administration is hopelessly corrupt as a result of forgoing public financing."With a $1.4 trillion deficit, both parties need to work together to reduce the deficit. We've got a lot of tough decisions ahead, and it's not a good sign that the Democrats are squealing about cutting a program only 7 percent of Americans support."This bill provides an early test of the president's commitment to reducing the deficit. If the administration won't support the elimination of an outdated program that doesn't benefit a single ordinary American, what cuts will they support?"
01.19.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) today released the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 2 - Repealing the Job-Killing Health Care Law Act: "Obamacare is bad legislation that spends $1.2 trillion we don't have and burdens American businesses and families with unacceptable costs and regulations. Most Americans strongly oppose this law, and honoring our pledge to repeal is important, regardless of the prospects in the Democratic Senate. This vote is just the first step of a continuing process to pass real reforms that lower health care costs without expanding government control." ###
01.19.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) has been appointed to the powerful House Budget Committee. The Budget Committee sets yearly spending limits for the federal government and issues guidelines for cutting programs to meet spending targets. Cole was also recently named to a second term on the Appropriations Committee."Getting government spending under control is the most important and urgent task of this Congress, and it all starts with the Budget Committee. I welcome the unique opportunity to serve on both the Budget and Appropriations committees, and I am committed to ensuring that Congress is responsible with taxpayer dollars at every stage of the budget process."Chairman Paul Ryan has shown determined commitment to making the tough choices necessary to reduce spending, and I am confident that, under his leadership, the Budget Committee will bring an end to the fiscal recklessness of the past four years."Oklahomans are fortunate to have one legislator on the Budget Committee already, and I look forward to working with Congressman James Lankford to address America's economic challenges."
01.07.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) today announced his committee assignments for the 112th Congress. Cole will continue serving on the Appropriations Committee and has been named to the Defense Subcommittee, as well as the Foreign Operations Subcommittee. In addition to these new subcommittees, he will continue to serve on the Interior and Environment Subcommittee.Cole has served on the Appropriations Committee, which has jurisdiction over spending measures like the annual appropriations bills that fund all federal government agencies, since 2009. In the previous Congress, he served on the Interior and Environment; Labor/Health & Human Services/Education; and Legislative Branch subcommittees. "The Appropriations Committee will be the tip of the spear in efforts to cut government spending, and I am honored to be serving on this pivotal committee at such an important time for our country."I am especially pleased to be selected to serve on subcommittees that influence issues vital to Oklahomans."Oklahoma's military personnel and bases are vital parts of our national security operations, and I intend to ensure that Oklahoma views are fully represented as the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee shapes military funding priorities. Speaker Boehner and Defense Secretary Gates have made it clear that the defense budget will not be immune from review, and it's crucial that we work closely with military leaders to eliminate wasteful spending without undermining our ability to respond to threats. "On the Interior Subcommittee, I will continue to work to protect Oklahoma's agriculture and natural resource development from government overreach and to represent our Native American communities. "The committee has already cut its own budget by 9 percent, and more cuts are coming. I look forward to making the tough choices necessary to end Washington's spending spree and put the country on the path to fiscal responsibility." ###
01.06.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) today released the following statement after the House approved a spending cut resolution requiring a 5 percent cut to every congressional office budget: "In order to make the spending cuts necessary to reduce the deficit and create jobs, everything must be on the table. There are tough cuts coming to every part of the federal budget, and it's appropriate that Congress take the first step by cutting our own budgets by 5 percent. I'm proud to have worked on the Transition Team that recommended these cuts, and I'm pleased that the Appropriations Committee on which I serve is going even further and cutting our budget by 9 percent. This is just the beginning of a serious and sustained effort to cut government spending." ###
01.05.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) today released the following statement after the House Republican majority passed new operating rules for the 112th Congress: "House Republicans pledged to cut spending and reform government, and we've wasted no time getting started. For too long, Washington has operated under a system that reflexively enables spending and the growth of government. The new rules we passed today change the legislative process and put the focus where it should be -- on budget discipline, spending cuts, and transparency." ###
12.23.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) made the following remarks on the House floor in support of H.R. 847, the 9/11 Health and Compensation Act, which was approved Wednesday by the House of Representatives. "Mr. Speaker, long before New York City's First Responders rushed to save their fellow Americans in the fire and horror of 9/11, they came to help the people of Oklahoma City deal with the death and destruction stemming from the terrorist bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building on April 19, 1995. "The people of Oklahoma have never forgotten the help that they received in their most difficult days from the first responders of New York City and their fellow first responders from all across America. And when 9/11 occurred, Oklahoma's first responders were proud to join their fellow Americans and rush to the aid of a stricken New York City. "Now it is our turn in this body to help all those who answered the call of duty on 9/11. They risked themselves to save others and help one of America's great cities deal with and recover from devastation of the greatest terrorist attack in our history. It is time as our greatest president said in an earlier era and in another context, 'to bind up the Nation's wounds, to care for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow, and his orphan...' "Mr. Speaker, I urge the passage of H.R. 847 as amended by the United States Senate."
12.23.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) and Connecticut Congressman Joe Courtney announced a friendly wager over the Fiesta Bowl matchup between the Oklahoma Sooners and the UConn Huskies. Courtney wagered pizzas from Connecticut’s world-famous Mystic Pizza, and Cole placed chocolate from the Chickasaw Nation’s Bedre Chocolates on the line."Having spent two years in graduate school in Connecticut, I know that Mystic Pizza is terrific," said Cole. "However, I can assure Mr. Courtney that the Chickasaw chocolate he will never taste is better. I'm just relieved that we are playing their football team and not their women's basketball team. At least we'll have a chance to win."Courtney added: “As UConn coach Randy Edsall has noted, his program has been called ‘up-and-coming’ for years. With two conference titles and now a BCS bowl bid on its resume, they have arrived. Now I hope the team accomplishes one more thing: winning the Fiesta Bowl. Although I’d be happy to introduce Mr. Cole to some of the best pizza he’ll ever taste, I’m very much looking forward to sampling the chocolates he placed on the line. Go Huskies!”The Fiesta Bowl will be played at 7:30 p.m. CST on New Year’s Day.###
12.21.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) today released the following statement after voting against a temporary spending bill that maintains inflated government funding levels through March 2011: "Instead of cutting spending during this time of high joblessness and record deficits, Democrats have pushed through yet another bloated funding bill. After failing to pass a budget or sign any of the 12 annual spending bills into law this year, the outgoing majority's record of fiscal irresponsibility remains unbroken. "Fortunately, the Democrats' plan to pass a 1,900-page, pork-filled omnibus spending package at the last minute were thwarted by strong opposition from the American people and Republicans in Congress. "The good news is this temporary measure expires in March, and the new Republican majority is committed to putting a stop to runaway spending as soon as the new Congress convenes in January." ###
12.16.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) today released the following statement after voting in favor of legislation to extend tax cuts for all Americans: "This bill is certainly not ideal, but allowing massive tax hikes to go into effect for every American during a recession is unacceptable. I would have preferred a more fiscally responsible plan that makes the current tax rates permanent and avoids dipping into the Social Security trust fund, but this is the best agreement possible at this time. "This compromise ensures Oklahomans will not face tax increases over the next two years and encourages desperately needed job creation. It's time to end the financial uncertainty for families and businesses and move on to making the tough choices necessary to cut spending, reform entitlements and modernize the tax structure. That task will begin when the new Republican majority is sworn in next January." ###
12.02.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) today released the following statement after voting against Democrats' tax bill: "This vote is nothing more than a political stunt. Negotiations are under way to extend tax breaks for all taxpayers and small businesses. Staging this vote before the negotiations are complete shows that the Democratic majority cares more about scoring political points than about getting the economy moving." ###
11.30.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) today released the following statement after House passage of H.R. 4783, the Claims Resolution Act of 2010. The legislation provides for the settlement of a 14-year-old class action suit in which over 500,000 American Indians sought an accounting of mismanaged trust accounts held by the United States for the benefit of individual Indian beneficiaries. The legislation passed the Senate on November 19 by unanimous consent, and a similar measure has twice passed the House. "This legislation brings a fair and responsible resolution to the Cobell case and is a great bargain for American taxpayers. Today's approval of the Cobell settlement is a historic development for Native American communities, which will finally receive just compensation for decades of unfair government mismanagement of their lands. The Cobell settlement helps correct a historic wrong and ensures that Native Americans enjoy the full benefit of tribal lands and resources. The bill is fully paid for and will save taxpayers millions in additional costly litigation. After 14 years of negotiations, I am hopeful that the settlement will be implemented quickly and efficiently." ###
11.08.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) was named today to serve on the GOP Majority Transition Team. This 22-member team will work to ensure a seamless transition to a new Republican majority in the 112th Congress so that the House can get to work immediately in January to address the priorities of the American people. The team has been charged with implementing the reforms to Congress in the Pledge to America and looking for additional ways to reform Congress so that it is more transparent, cost-effective, and accountable to the people.Cole has been also been asked to co-chair the Working Group on House Operations. This is one of only three Working Groups, along with House and Conference Rules and Floor and House Schedule."The American people sent a clear message on Election Day that Washington has to change," said Cole. "House Republicans have an historic opportunity to reform Congress, and we are committed to running the House differently than it has been run by both Democrats and Republicans in the past. The transition team has concrete plans to restore fiscal discipline and bring more transparency, accountability and integrity to government. It's an honor to be a part of this important effort, and I look forward to working to implement the priorities of the American people."“I want to thank Rep. Cole for being a part of this historic transition team," commented Transition Committee Chairman Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.). "Together, we will reform how Congress operates so bills are available online for at least 72 hours, giving the press, public, and members of Congress enough time to actually read and understand legislation before it is put to a vote. It is high time that transparency and efficiency return to the nation’s capital, and I look forward to rolling up my sleeves with Rep. Cole to help make that happen.”NOTE: The Republican Pledge to America sets forth a plan to reform Congress and, in doing so, begin restoring the public trust. These reforms include: • A requirement that legislation be available online for 3 days before a vote so that members of Congress and the American people can read the bill. • A requirement that all bills include a citation of constitutional authority so that Congress respects the limits imposed on it by our founding document. • Changes to House rules to make it harder to increase spending and easier to cut it so that we begin a new era of fiscal responsibility in Washington.• An end to the practice of passing "comprehensive" or "omnibus" bills that package unrelated legislation together in an effort to avoid public scrutiny.Republican Leader Boehner has also pledged to end the days of bills being written in the Speaker’s Office behind closed doors, and instead vowed to move bill-writing authority back to committees, which would be required to post amendments and votes online to ensure full transparency.###
11.03.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) made the following statement after Republicans regained control of the House of Representatives in Tuesday's midterm elections:"This election is a resounding rejection of big spending and big government. In their first chance to vote on the Obama/Pelosi agenda, citizens overwhelmingly voted against Obamacare, higher taxes and trillion-dollar deficits."Congress now has a strong, unequivocal mandate to cut wasteful government spending and take decisive action to reduce our crippling debt. Conservatives have the right polices to restore fiscal sanity and economic prosperity, and I am confident we will move swiftly to make the tough choices demanded by the American people. "###
10.07.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) today issued the following statement after Bill Burgess was named Civilian Aide to the Secretary of the Army:"I congratulate Bill Burgess on this important assignment. Bill has an outstanding record of public service in Oklahoma. As the son of a career Army non-com, incoming State Chamber of Commerce president, and a leader in business and education, Bill will bring an amazing range of contacts, experience and skills to the job. I have no doubt he will make an excellent Civilian Aide." ###
09.30.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) made the following statement after Congress adjourned until November without voting to extend tax cuts for all American families and businesses:"Congress is leaving a lot of unfinished business on the table. Speaker Pelosi and her party are sending legislators home without allowing a vote on tax relief. It's highly irresponsible to adjourn without permitting consideration of tax breaks, which have bipartisan support and would bring urgently needed certainty and relief to our struggling job market."It's also disappointing that the majority party has neglected to pass 10 of the 12 annual appropriations bills that set government spending limits- nor have they passed a budget. With record deficits jeopardizing our economic security, we need more spending discipline, not less. This utter failure to complete the most basic budget tasks virtually guarantees that more reckless spending will be rushed through at the end of the year."Adjourning early without holding votes on tax relief or major spending bills is simply a dereliction of duty."###
09.23.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) today issued the following statement after House Republicans released the Pledge to America, a new governing agenda that includes policies to cut spending and reform government:"The American people are demanding decisive action to control government spending and reform the legislative process, and the Pledge to America is designed to begin delivering results immediately."This new plan lays out specifically what we need to do to restore fiscal sanity and transparency to the government and encourage the private sector to create jobs. It stops tax hikes, cancels failed stimulus spending and repeals the government health care takeover."Challenges like high unemployment and the growing national debt will not be solved with the same tired, old Washington tactics. The Pledge to America provides concrete solutions for getting the country back on track, and I'm proud to have been a part of its development."Cole was part of a committee to craft the Pledge to America, which was assembled based on feedback from the American people. ###
09.17.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Both the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate, in separate legislative sessions on Tuesday and Wednesday evening, respectively, approved legislation sponsored by the Oklahoma Congressional Delegation to honor the service members of Oklahoma’s Army and Air National Guard. The identical resolutions, H. Res. 1052 and S. Res. 624, express gratitude to the members of the Oklahoma Guard and their families for their service and sacrifice on behalf of the U.S. since September 11, 2001, and recognize them as invaluable to the national security of the United States, vital to defending against threats both foreign and domestic, and essential for responding to State and national emergencies. U.S. Rep. Tom Cole "It's an honor to join my colleagues in paying tribute to members of Oklahoma's Army and Air National Guard forces. I met with Guard members serving in Afghanistan earlier this month, and their professionalism, skill and dedication should make all Oklahomans proud. Guard forces are indispensable to our security, both at home and overseas, and service members and their families deserve our utmost appreciation.” U.S. Rep. Dan Boren “I am honored to join the Oklahoma Delegation to recognize the Oklahoma National Guard for their service and sacrifice since September 11, 2001. During this time, the Guard has deployed on numerous fronts, ranging from the deserts of the Middle East for Operation Iraq Freedom and the mountains of Afghanistan for Operation Enduring Freedom to the Gulf of Mexico states that were battered by Hurricane’s Katrina and Rita. Whether deployed abroad fighting terrorism or providing relief here at home, they have brought honor to Oklahoma. As members of the 45th Infantry Brigade Combat Team prepare for a possible deployment to Afghanistan in 2011, this resolution is just one of the ways we can honor the continued service and sacrifice they have made and that their families have made.” U.S. Rep. Mary Fallin “The members of the Oklahoma Army and Air National Guard have served with distinction in every theater of the War on Terror, deploying to Iraq, Afghanistan and support areas. Throughout their service, Oklahoma Guard servicemen and women have been simply outstanding, and as the 45h Infantry Brigade and other Guard units prepare for further deployments in 2010 and beyond, it is fitting that Congress recognizes their efforts and sacrifices with this resolution. Just as they did in World War II and Korea, the Oklahoma Guard is on the front lines of America’s defense. I know the entire Oklahoma delegation is proud to salute them.” U.S. Rep. Frank Lucas “I am proud to join my colleagues from Oklahoma to honor the brave men and women who serve in the Army and Air National Guard of Oklahoma. They are an invaluable addition to our Oklahoma community and their service and sacrifice will not soon be forgotten.” U.S. Rep. John Sullivan “I am proud to join my colleagues in the Oklahoma delegation in paying tribute to the brave men and women who serve our country as members of the Oklahoma Army National Guard and Air National Guard. These citizen soldiers and airmen represent the best of our state, and all Oklahomans can be grateful for their service, sacrifice and dedication to defending the freedoms we enjoy as American citizens. Their contribution to the war on terrorism and protecting us here at home have made our nation realize the vital role they play in keeping us safe and eliminating global terror. May God continue to bless our troops both home and abroad.” U.S. Senator Tom Coburn “I am honored to recognize the service members of Oklahoma’s Army and Air National Guard as well as their families. The unimaginable sacrifices made by these brave men and women throughout the state of Oklahoma, and across the nation, will not be forgotten. Protecting our country and preserving individual freedoms is an invaluable service performed by members of the Oklahoma National guard, and something for which we are all deeply grateful.” U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe “Having visited the members of the Oklahoma National Guard many times while at home and while they have been on the front lines in both Iraq and Afghanistan, I have seen first-hand their dedication to their country and the hardships they have faced. Whether serving here at home or in various places overseas, the members of the Oklahoma National Guard have sacrificed much to keep us free as they have served both their nation and their state with honor and distinction. It is fitting that Congress honor these true patriots.” ###
09.07.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) traveled last week to Afghanistan to observe operations and meet with troops, including service members deployed from Oklahoma. "It was a privilege to meet with our soldiers and military leaders serving in Afghanistan," Cole said. "I was honored by the opportunity to express gratitude on behalf of our state to Oklahoma's own service members and civilians serving in harm's way." "There is a great sense of optimism among our forces in Afghanistan. With the commitment of additional troops and the arrival of General David Petraeus, our military personnel believe they have the resources they need to complete the mission." "Everyone I spoke with demonstrated a unity of purpose and level of cohesion greater than I've ever seen before. Our troops expressed great confidence in the support of the Afghan people and government." "There is no doubt that we can complete the mission in Afghanistan if our military leaders are given sufficient time to implement the surge strategy. President Obama's announcement that forces will begin leaving in July 2011 creates real concern among our service members that their mission will be cut short before victory is assured." "Success in Afghanistan is critical to our national security. I urge President Obama and members of Congress to provide full support to our mission and give our military leaders the time they need to achieve victory." Cole traveled with a bipartisan congressional delegation including Rep. James Moran (D-VA), Rep. Harold Rogers (R-KY), and Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-NJ). ###
09.01.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) made the following statement in response to the withdrawal of combat troops from Iraq: "Iraq, the world and America are safer because America removed Saddam Hussein from power. Combat troops returning from Iraq have earned our utmost gratitude and respect for their courage and sacrifice. "It's important to remember that the success of the surge would not have been possible without President Bush's refusal to let our military strategy be dictated by artificial timelines and political considerations. If we had followed the course recommended by candidate Obama we would be leaving in defeat. As president, Obama was wise to follow Bush's approach, which has allowed us to leave in success. "During this crucial new phase in both Iraq and Afghanistan, it is my hope that President Obama will remain committed to victory and not allow the extraordinary achievements of our service members to be undermined." ###
08.11.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) was honored recently with the Oklahoma Veterans Council Special Award for his support of veterans, military personnel and their families. Cole accepted the award at the Veterans Council meeting in Oklahoma City. "I am honored to receive this award," Cole commented. "Our veterans and active duty military have earned our utmost support for their service and sacrifice. I will continue to work to ensure service members receive the care and resources they deserve." "We are proud to present the Oklahoma Veterans Council Special Award to such a deserving person as Congressman Cole," said Scott Ellis, of the Mid America Chapter Paralyzed Veterans of America. "We are extremely proud of Congressman Cole and all that he has done to advance the care and quality of life of Oklahoma Veterans and their families." ###
08.10.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) made the following statement after House Democrats passed H.R. 1586, the latest "stimulus" bill: "Oklahoma taxpayers are tired of the federal government spending their hard-earned money on one failed stimulus bill after another. President Obama's previous stimulus packages have done nothing but prolong the economic crisis by deepening America's debt. This latest effort to throw money at the problem may score political points, but it will not create jobs or get the economy moving. We need to be cutting spending, not convening special votes to pass even more spending we can't afford. We can't borrow and spend our way to economic prosperity." ###
07.30.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) made the following statement after the House vote on H.R. 3534, the "CLEAR" Act: "This is simply a bad bill. Democrats are exploiting the BP spill to impose new taxes and bureaucracy that will raise energy costs for consumers, kill jobs and increase dependence on foreign oil. There is no guarantee that this legislation will do a thing to prevent future spills, but it is certain that it will discourage domestic exploration and punish small, independent companies that had nothing to do with the spill. At a time when we should be doing everything possible to create jobs and promote energy independence, this is exactly the wrong approach." ###
07.27.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) made the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 4899, a supplemental appropriations bill to provide critical funding for war operations in Afghanistan and Iraq: "The missions in Afghanistan and Iraq are critical to our national security, and our armed forces deserve our full support. Unfortunately, the majority party has held this funding hostage for months in an attempt force through domestic spending completely unrelated to defense. Without this legislation, service members were in real danger of having salaries and benefits going unpaid in the near term -- all so the majority party could disguise more deficit spending. "Our men and women in uniform deserve better than to have their pay and resources jeopardized while Democrats play politics with the defense budget. I'm pleased to vote for a responsible funding bill so our military members and their families will have the support they need." ###
07.22.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) made the following statement after the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior approved language to amend the Indian Reorganization Act of 1934 (IRA) to reaffirm the authority of the Secretary of Interior to take land into trust for Indian tribes. The policy would address issues created by the Carcieri v. Salazar decision: "Today's action is a significant step forward for this important legislation. Without this language, the standard set forth in Carcieri v. Salazar will be devastating to tribal sovereignty and economic development. Resolving any ambiguity in the Indian Reorganization Act is vital to protecting tribal interests and avoiding costly and protracted litigation. I commend Congressman Moran and Congressman Simpson for their work on this issue and hope that the full Committee will ensure this provision receives long overdue consideration in the House." In 2009, the Supreme Court ruled that a modern reading of the IRA did not adequately provide authority for the Secretary of the Interior to take land into trust for the Narragansett Indian Tribe of Rhode Island. Many tribes in existence today were not federally recognized before the 1934 law was passed. Today's Subcommittee action, based on legislation (H.R. 3697) previously introduced by Cole, makes clarifying changes to the IRA of 1934 so that the Interior Department will be able to continue to acquire trust lands for tribes, regardless of the date a tribe was federally recognized. ###
07.21.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) made the following statement after the House passed H.R. 725, the Indian Arts and Crafts Amendments Act, which included amendments to the Tribal Law and Order Act: "The ability of law enforcement to fight crime in Indian Country has been severely compromised by inadequate training and resources. This bipartisan legislation will help tribal law enforcement crack down on violence and drug abuse in Native American communities. All Americans have the right to public safety and security, and this legislation is an important step toward making Oklahoma safer. This is a major victory for not only Oklahoma, but all of Indian Country. Today, Congress has approved the greatest stride forward for public safety in Indian Country in decades." H.R. 725 re-authorizes existing programs at existing or last appropriated levels, creating no new spending. The legislation includes provisions to: provide enhanced sentencing authority allowing longer sentences for tribal offenders; enhance evidence sharing and federal accountability; increase the number of officers on the ground in Indian Country; streamline the process for the BIA and IHS employees to testify in sexual assault cases; re-authorize funding to support tribal courts. Crime on Indian reservations is 2.5 times the national average. One in three Native women will be raped over the course of a lifetime. The 56 million acres of Indian Country have less than one-half of the law enforcement presence available in comparable rural communities. ###
07.06.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) today issued the following statement after the Obama Justice Department filed a lawsuit to block implementation of Arizona's immigration law: "Arizona was forced to act because of President Obama's failure to enforce federal immigration laws, and this lawsuit can't hide that fact. Undermining state laws will not make the country safer. Rather than waste time and taxpayer money suing Arizona, the Obama administration should focus on securing the border." ###
07.02.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) today issued the following statement after House Democrats passed their latest spending bill: "House Democrats have made a habit of exploiting defense legislation to force through unpopular spending increases, but they've really outdone themselves this time. Less than half of the funds in this $72 billion spending bill will go to support war operations while the bulk of the items are a grab bag of pet projects and domestic spending. At a time of fiscal crisis, any new spending should be subject to a full and transparent debate on the merits -- not tacked on to a vital defense bill. Funding for our troops overseas should not be exploited in the interests of giving liberals cover to run up more deficit spending." ###
06.30.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) today issued the following statement after voting against H.R. 4173, "Restoring American Financial Stability Act of 2010": "Americans are no safer from another economic collapse today than we were yesterday. This bill institutionalizes 'too big to fail' and does nothing to address the rampantly irresponsible lending practices at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that played a leading role in causing the financial crisis. Creating new government bureaucracy and jeopardizing more taxpayer dollars is not reform." ###
06.28.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) today issued the following statement after the Supreme Court ruled in favor of gun rights in McDonald v. Chicago: "The Constitution is crystal clear that citizens have the right to bear arms. This decision affirms that no government, at any level, has the authority to deny the rights of Americans to own guns. Today's ruling further reinforces the importance of appointing Supreme Court justices who will respect the fundamental rights plainly set forth in our Constitution." ###
06.23.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) today issued the following statement after President Obama accepted the resignation of General Stanley McChrystal as commander of forces in Afghanistan: "I have the utmost respect for General McChrystal and his distinguished career of service to our country, but his comments were ill-advised for a commander in a time of war. It is disturbing that the administration's management of the war has created an atmosphere of doubt and division among military and civilian leaders in Afghanistan. However, any criticism must be kept within the chain of command, regardless of disagreements with the White House. It is imperative that our men and women in uniform have the full, unified support of the administration, the Congress, and the American people. "I'm pleased with the appointment of General Petraeus to lead the mission in Afghanistan. He is a brilliant commander, an accomplished diplomat, and a great patriot. Now, it is vital that the Obama administration fully commit itself to achieving victory and providing General Petraeus and our soldiers with the support needed to complete the mission in Afghanistan." ###
05.28.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) today congratulated Frederick resident Matthew Tyler on his acceptance to the Page Program in the U.S. House of Representatives. Cole nominated Tyler to serve as a congressional page for the summer session. "I congratulate Matthew and his family on this exciting opportunity," Cole said. "It's an honor to be selected as a congressional page. With Matthew's academic achievements and enthusiasm for public service, I'm sure he will represent his hometown well and make the most of his time in Washington." Tyler, a junior at the Oklahoma School of Science and Mathematics, is the son of Gary and Julie Tyler. ###
05.13.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) today issued the following statement after the House Republican Economic Recovery Working Group launched YouCut, a first-of-its kind initiative designed to give taxpayers an opportunity to vote on spending cuts they would most like to see Congress enact. Cole's proposal to eliminate the Presidential Election Fund is one of the first spending cuts to be considered under the program. "Wasteful government spending is bankrupting the country, and the American people know it," said Cole. "The YouCut initiative allows taxpayers to communicate directly to Congress exactly which spending cuts should be tackled first. House conservatives are committed to proposing new spending cuts every week until we change Washington's runaway spending culture. "I'm pleased that my proposal to get rid of the Presidential Election Fund was selected as one of the first to be considered," Cole added. "Taxpayer money should not be used to finance presidential campaigns -- especially considering candidates raised over $1 billion in the last election. The fund is just one more example of outdated, unnecessary expenses that need to go." Each week, the House Economic Recovery Solutions Group will post online (at https://republicanwhip.house.gov/YouCut) a list of five proposals to reduce wasteful or unnecessary spending. The public will have a chance to vote online or on their cell phones on the proposal they would most like to see Congress take up. The following week, House Republicans will force the House to vote on whether or not to take up and debate the bill. Cole's proposal, one of five to be considered in the initial round of online voting, would abolish the Presidential Election Fund, a federal program that provides matching funds to presidential primary candidates, certain third-party candidates, and funds for political conventions. In the 2008 presidential election, the candidates raised over $1.3 billion from individuals and PACs, making taxpayer money unnecessary. ###
05.11.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) today released the following statement after touring storm-damaged areas in Cleveland and Oklahoma counties:"Recovery efforts are already well under way in the hardest hit areas. First responders have done a remarkable job, and the utility crews from rural electric coops and OG&E should also be commended for their tremendous efforts to restore power to homes and businesses."Oklahomans always respond admirably in challenging circumstances, and the accounts of neighbors going out of their way to help each other in the aftermath of these devastating storms demonstrate our state's character once again."I've been in close contact with Governor Henry and local officials and will continue to work with state and local leaders to help ensure they have the federal resources needed to rebuild." ###
05.10.2010	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) announced today that Tyler Powell will be joining his staff as field representative in the Lawton region. Powell will be replacing Keri Dennis who has accepted a position with Triangle Insurance Company."I am pleased that Tyler is joining our Lawton team," Rep. Cole said. "With his government experience and background in agriculture, I have every confidence he will do an outstanding job representing the needs of southwest Oklahoma."Tyler recently graduated from Oklahoma State University with a degree in Agribusiness. While at OSU, Tyler served in numerous leadership positions and was named Oklahoma State University Outstanding Senior, as well as College of Agricultural Science and Natural Resources Outstanding Senior. Additionally, Tyler served as an intern in the Oklahoma House and Senate Agriculture Committees.###
05.07.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) was honored Thursday as one of the most conservative members of Congress by the American Conservative Union (ACU). ACU held ceremonies on Capitol Hill to present awards to those members of the United States House and Senate who earned high ratings on ACU's annual Ratings of Congress for the 111th Congress, First Session."Conservative principles of low taxes, small government and fiscal discipline are the only way to restore America to prosperity," Cole said. "I appreciate the American Conservative Union for recognizing the importance of commonsense Oklahoma values to getting the nation back on track."“This award is a reflection of Representative Tom Cole’s consistent support of conservative principles on a wide range of issues of concern to grassroots conservatives in 2009," commented ACU Chairman David A. Keene. "At a challenging time when the fundamental principles on which the American system of government are being challenged, Representative Tom Cole stands with those who are trying to preserve those principles.” ###
05.06.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) today joined fellow House conservatives to launch the 10th Amendment Task Force. A project of the Republican Study Committee (RSC), the Task Force will work to uphold constitutional principles that limit federal authority over states and individuals."The alarming growth of the federal government threatens not only our economic security but our personal liberty," Cole said. "It's past time to restore the constitutional principles that protect state and individual rights from government overreach, and that's exactly what this task force will work to do."In remarks at the Capitol, Cole highlighted the 10th Amendment Regulatory Reform Act, a bill he introduced in March. H.R. 4946 would provide special standing for state government officials to challenge regulations issued in conjunction with the implementation of federal laws. Under the legislation, any rule proposed by a federal agency would be subject to constitutional challenges if state officials determine the rule infringes on powers reserved to the states under the 10th Amendment.The 10th Amendment states "The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people." The mission of the 10th Amendment Task Force is to restore the proper constitutional balance of power. ###
04.30.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) was honored this week on Capitol Hill by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and presented with the Spirit of Enterprise Award for his pro-business record during the first session of the 111th Congress. "American entrepreneurship is the key to job creation and economic prosperity," Cole said. "I'm pleased to accept this award from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and I'll continue to support policies that allow American businesses to grow, free from high taxes and government interference." “The Chamber applauds Representative Cole for supporting the private sector and job growth through these difficult times,” said Thomas J. Donohue, president and CEO of the U.S. Chamber. “He has demonstrated great courage and we commend him.” Eligibility for the award is based on how Members of Congress vote on key business issues, which the Chamber outlines in its annual publication How They Voted. Those members of Congress who support the Chamber’s position on at least 70 percent of those votes receive the award. According to the scorecard, Rep. Cole maintained an 80 percent rating with the Chamber this year and collectively holds a 93 percent ranking during his tenure in Congress. The Chamber scored Congress on 7 Senate and 15 House votes in 2009, including the economic stimulus package, legislation to promote the U.S. as a travel destination abroad, and both the House and Senate healthcare reform bills. ###
04.26.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Members of the Oklahoma Delegation reacted to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) analysis that the recently passed health care legislation will result in higher premiums, lower reimbursement rates, and will force many Americans from their current health care plan breaking President Obama’s promise of ‘if you like it, you can keep it.’ U.S. Rep. Tom Cole "This report validates all of Oklahomans' worst fears about ObamaCare. The president's own analysts have now verified that concerns about cost hikes, Medicare cuts, and doctor shortages aren't just slogans -- they're the new reality now that government-controlled health care is the law of the land. We knew from the start that claims like 'if you like your health care, you can keep it' were false, and now CMS has confirmed that 14 million people will likely lose their employer-provided coverage, not to mention all the seniors who will lose coverage when Medicare providers drop out of the program. It's a shame that President Obama and Speaker Pelosi didn't listen to the American people, who knew all along that this plan was a disaster." U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe “This report from President Obama’s own Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) confirms what those of us against the government takeover of health care feared. As a result of the passage of the Democrats socialized medicine measure, health care costs are expected to increase faster than they otherwise would have. This will have a negative impact on Oklahomans, especially the elderly and those living in rural portions of our state. The Democrat leadership in Congress rushed this through without regard for this type of information, and now Americans are faced with tax increases, premium increases, cost increases and an overall reduction in the quality of their care.” U.S. Rep. Mary Fallin “The report confirms what we feared all along. This misguided health care bill will increase costs on American families and businesses as they struggle to recover from the worst economic recession in a generation. It’s time to stop taxing and regulating families and businesses into the ground and provide them with the freedom and incentives they need to grow and prosper. That is why I support repealing the recently-passed health care bill and replacing it with cost-saving, market-based reforms that will increase consumer choices while driving down the excessive costs that have shut so many people out of our health care system in the past.” U.S. Rep. Frank Lucas “Rather than taking the time to ensure a full analysis was completed on their government takeover of health care, Speaking Pelosi and President Obama shoved it through Congress on a partisan vote before the American people could truly learn its long-term effects on the cost and standard of health care they would receive under it. The report released by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) highlights what I and a majority of my fellow Americans repeatedly pointed out during the health care debate: that the bill would result in higher premiums, rationed health care, and would force many Americans from their current health care plans.” U.S. Rep. John Sullivan “As I have said from the start, higher premiums, higher taxes and cutting seniors Medicare is not reform. This Obama Administration report confirms that the new health care law clearly puts our nation on a path to bankruptcy, limits healthcare options for seniors and increases the price families and small businesses have to pay for the care they receive – this is exactly why I voted against it. As a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health, I will lead the charge to repeal and replace Obamacare with real healthcare solutions that lower the price of healthcare, increase access to quality care, and allows patients to choose the healthcare plan that best fits their needs.”
04.14.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) made the following statement in response to comments by Rep. Betty McCollum (D-Minn.) on the House floor today politicizing the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing: "These outrageous remarks are deeply offensive to all Oklahomans - indeed all Americans. The fact that a Member of Congress would invoke this tragedy to make a cheap political statement is reprehensible. Members of both parties should show respect for the victims' families and refrain from using rhetoric that politicizes this tragic event."Governor Frank Keating and President Bill Clinton did a superb job at the state and national levels responding to this event. Neither of them has ever used this event to make a partisan point. Others should follow their lead."As Oklahoma's Secretary of State at the time, I witnessed remarkable cooperation and unity in the aftermath of the attack. My current House colleagues Frank Lucas, whose district office was devastated in the explosion, and then- Lieutenant Governor Mary Fallin were a part of the remarkable bipartisan efforts to help Oklahoma City recover. "This tragedy was not a partisan political event and should not be exploited now for divisive, partisan purposes. As the 15th anniversary of the bombing approaches, our thoughts should be with the 168 victims of the attack and their families." ###
04.07.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) announced today that he will be holding 10 town hall meetings in March and April. Rep. Cole will be available to answer questions and address concerns about federal legislation. Members of Cole's staff will also be available to assist residents with federal casework."These town hall meetings are a great opportunity to get feedback from Fourth District residents, and I'm looking forward to hearing everyone's ideas and concerns," Rep. Cole said. "With everything that's going on in Washington these days, these forums play a valuable role in shaping debate. I invite everyone to participate and share their views."This series of town hall meetings will be held between March 30 and April 12. Please contact Cole's office in Norman at (405) 329-6500 for more information about the town hall meetings.Sulphur/Davis - Tuesday, March 30 12:00, noonMurray County Expo Center4000 West Highway 7Sulphur, OK 73086Norman - Wednesday, March 31 5:30 p.m.Moore Norman Technology Center (Franklin Rd. Campus)Straughan Seminar Center4701 12th Ave. N.W.Norman, OK 73069Lawton- Thursday, April 1 5:30 p.m.Comanche County Fairgrounds Annex920 S SheridanLawton, OK 73505Mustang - Monday, April 5 5:30 p.m.Mustang Town Center1201 N Mustang RdMustang, OK 73064Pauls Valley- Tuesday, April 612:00, noonPauls Valley High School Auditorium601 North StreetPauls Valley, OK 73075Ada- Wednesday, April 75:30 p.m.McSwain Theatre130 West Main StreetAda, OK 74820Madill- Thursday, April 812:00, noonCommunity RoomFirst Baptist Church110 East Tishomingo StreetMadill, OK 73446Ardmore- Thursday, April 8 5:30 p.m.Ardmore Convention Center2401 N. Rockford RoadArdmore, OK 73401Waurika: Friday, April 912:00, noonWaurika Depot98 S MeridianWaurika, OK 73573 Midwest City - Monday, April 12 5:30 p.m.Rose State CollegeProfessional Training and Education Center1720 Hudiburg Drive Midwest City OK 73110 ###
04.06.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) made the following statement upon the passing of Wilma Mankiller: "All Oklahomans and every Native American who knew her mourn the passing of Wilma Mankiller. Chief Mankiller was not only the first woman to serve as Principal Chief of the Cherokee Nation, she was a national icon and role model for women and Native Americans everywhere. "Her strong, visionary and principled leadership set a standard seldom equaled and never to be surpassed. I had the opportunity over the years to get to know Chief Mankiller personally. She was tough, shrewd and dedicated to the well-being of the Cherokee Nation and all Native Americans. No one more fiercely defended the concept of tribal sovereignty, yet no one was more willing to partner with others of different backgrounds and points of view than Wilma Mankiller. "My deepest sympathies go out to her family, the people of the Cherokee Nation, and all her many friends and admirers. We'll not soon see her like again. " ###
03.25.2010	Legislation would allow states to challenge federal regulationsWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) today introduced the 10th Amendment Regulatory Reform Act, which would provide special standing for state government officials to challenge regulations issued in conjunction with the implementation of federal laws. Under the legislation, any rule proposed by a federal agency would be subject to constitutional challenges if state officials determine the rule infringes on powers reserved to the states under the 10th Amendment. The 10th Amendment states "The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people." "The reach of the federal government into citizens' daily lives has become far more expansive than the Founding Fathers ever intended," Cole said. "The Constitution places strict limits on federal power, but those limits are enforced so rarely that federal actions routinely usurp states' rights in practice although not under law. This bill ensures that states can challenge unconstitutional mandates before they take effect so that more authority will reside at the state level where it belongs." Under the process created by H.R. 4946, federal agencies would be required to publicly post and rule on challenges filed by designated state officials. After a challenge is filed, the agency would have 15 days to withdraw the rule or issue a written declaration certifying the rule's constitutionality under the 10th Amendment. State officials empowered to issue challenges under the bill include governors, lieutenant governors, and majority or minority leaders in state legislatures. The bill, co-sponsored by Tom Rooney (R-Fla.), will now be referred for committee consideration. ###
03.21.2010	U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) issued the following statement today after House Democrats passed H.R. 4872, Reconciliation Act of 2010, and H.R. 3590, Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act: "Along with an overwhelming majority of Oklahomans, I strongly oppose the government takeover of health care and the arrogant way it's been forced upon the American people. This deeply flawed legislation raises taxes, expands government control and kills job creation, but it fails to cut health care costs or meaningfully reform the insurance system. "The bill approved by House Democrats today does not deserve the name ‘health care reform.’ This $1.2 trillion monstrosity increases taxes by $569 billion and cuts Medicare by $523 billion. Remaking one-sixth of our economy in such a radical way could have disastrous long-term consequences for both our medical system and financial security. It’s nothing short of irresponsible to embark on such a massive government spending spree during a time of 9.7 percent unemployment and record deficits. “The divisive process by which President Obama and Speaker Pelosi have rammed this bill through Congress is almost as misguided as the legislation itself. Over the adamant objections of the American people, the Democratic majority has pursued their health care takeover through extraordinary exploitation of parliamentary rules, closed-door negotiations, budget gimmicks, and vote-buying kickbacks that have further undermined Americans’ confidence in the legislative process. “If this legislation is implemented, it will weaken our health care system and bring the government closer to bankruptcy. As the Senate begins consideration of the bill, I urge my congressional colleagues and the Obama administration to listen to the American people and scrap this government health care takeover.” ###
03.01.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Rep. Tom Cole and his colleagues in Oklahoma’s House delegation introduced H.Res.1110, a resolution to honor the Oklahoma National Guard’s Agricultural Development Teams and commend members of the 45th Agri-Business Development Team for their efforts to modernize agriculture and sustainable farming practices in Afghanistan. The resolution also recognizes their dedication and their service to our nation. “With their diligence and expertise, members of the 45th Agri-Business Development Team have made an invaluable contribution to our mission overseas,” said Cole. “By using their skills to bring stability to Afghanistan, these Oklahomans contribute tremendously to our security here at home. I join all Oklahomans in thanking them for their courage and commitment.” In December 2009, the Oklahoma National Guard deployed a 64-member Agricultural Development Team (ADT) to eastern Afghanistan. The ADT, which is currently stationed in Wizah, is working closely with the Provincial Director of Agriculture and Afghan farmers and ranchers to modernize agriculture and sustainable farming practices. In August, the Oklahoma National Guard will deploy a second ADT to replace the first team’s effort in the region. “I am incredibly proud of the job the Oklahoma National Guard is doing in Afghanistan,” said Rep. Mary Fallin (OK-05). “It is a true testament to the skills and efforts of our men and women in uniform to provide such an important advisory role to the Afghan people. The Guard’s partnership with Oklahoma State University demonstrates the assets the state of Oklahoma can provide to ongoing operations in the Middle East.” Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-03) said, “Oklahoma has historically been a leader in the agriculture industry, and that remains true today through the hard work of the Agri-Business Development Team of the Oklahoma National Guard and their efforts to strengthen agriculture development in Afghanistan. I am proud to join my fellow colleagues from Oklahoma to honor their dedication and their invaluable contribution to the people of Afghanistan.” Congressman John Sullivan (OK-01) said, “I am proud to join my colleagues in the Oklahoma delegation in honoring the 45th Agri-Business Development Team of the Oklahoma National Guard. Our state has a proud agricultural history, and I am confident that the knowledge and expertise of our National Guard members will improve the health and lives of the Afghan people. I commend the hard work of the 45th ADT, wish them a successful mission and look forward to their safe return home.” “The 45th Agri-Business Development Team’s work is critical to improving the lives of the citizens of Afghanistan,” Congressman Dan Boren (OK-02) said. “The team’s work will provide the Afghanis with the tools necessary to establishing a sustainable means to provide for themselves and their families long after military operations have been completed. These Oklahomans bring honor to Oklahoma’s National Guard and I am pleased to join my colleagues in recognizing their efforts.” ###
02.04.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) issued the following statement after voting against legislation to increase the debt limit: "Runaway government spending is bankrupting the country, and the Democrats' response is to raise the debt limit and keep on borrowing and spending. Today's vote increased the debt limit for the sixth time in three years. That kind of spending is simply unsustainable. "In just three years, the Democratic majority has increased the deficit from $161 billion to $1.6 trillion. Rather than focusing on spending cuts, the Democrats elected to increase the debt limit by 59 percent and enact the same weak PAYGO rules they've routinely waived while driving spending to record levels. "Congressional Democrats are pushing through such an extraordinary debt increase now in the hopes that they won't have to do it again before the next election. But taxpayers will feel the consequences of this incredibly irresponsible policy for years to come." ###
02.01.2010	Your Representative is looking forward to holding a local event in a specific town in our congressional district.We will use our website to display relevant information regarding this event, such as time, location and subject matter.We look forward to seeing you at the event!
02.01.2010	The office is pleased to announce the publication of press releases on its new website. This will allow our office to communicate timely events and important news to our constituents and district residents.Please stay tuned for continued information from us.
02.01.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) made the following statement today in response to the release of the Obama administration's fiscal year 2011 budget: "President Obama accomplished the remarkable feat of simultaneously raising taxes and increasing the deficit in the same budget. He did so by recklessly increasing spending, diverting TARP repayments from debt repayment to new programs, and avoiding entitlement reform. It just goes to show that while President Obama is swift to lecture conservatives about fiscal responsibility, his administration seems to be incapable of exercising any itself. This president and his liberal allies in Congress have raised government spending to unprecedented levels and created the largest deficits and debt this nation has ever seen. "I believe the American people are also growing weary of President Obama's penchant for blaming every problem he has on former President Bush. The fact is President Obama dramatically increased spending beyond the level President Bush recommended in 2009, and he's now increased spending yet again. It is President Obama and the Democratic majorities in Congress that have unleashed unprecedented federal spending and created the largest deficits and debt in American history. It's time for the president and his party to get serious about confronting the severe economic challenges facing our nation. Unless and until they do, our economy will remain at risk. "It's time to cut the deficit the old-fashioned way -- by reducing spending. I am certain Republicans will work with the president to do just that in order to avoid the ruinous tax hikes he proposes in his current and future budgets if he meets them half way." ###
01.27.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cole made the following statement about President Obama's State of the Union Address, January 27, 2010:"The agenda President Obama outlined tonight essentially promises more of the same: more spending, more burdens on American businesses, and more symbolic measures that do nothing to provide real solutions to the challenges we face. "I agree with the president that overcoming our problems requires a fresh approach and a spirit of cooperation. The American people have made it clear that they are tired of wasteful Washington spending and politics-as-usual. Unfortunately, President Obama and congressional Democrats appear committed to the same costly policies that have deepened the deficit and stifled economic growth for the past year. "Whether the issue is health care, energy policy or jobs, the Democrat answer remains the same: more spending, higher taxes and bigger government. "Such an approach is not what the times require. We need commonsense policies that control runaway government spending and allow American innovation to thrive. This is the key to job creation, long-term economic security, energy independence and affordable health care."President Obama campaigned on a promise to usher in a new era of post-partisan cooperation and transparency. Unfortunately, the past year has demonstrated that the soaring rhetoric of his administration is hollow. Despite what he promised, President Obama continues to blame the past administration for all of America's problems, drive our nation further and further into debt, and look to big government programs to solve every challenge we face. That is not what made America great in the first place, and it is certainly not an approach to restore our greatness."###
01.25.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) announced the names of students from Oklahoma's Fourth Congressional District who have received nominations to one or more of America's prestigious service academies. "It's my privilege to nominate outstanding young Oklahomans to serve in our nation's military academies," Congressman Cole said. "Our state has a distinguished tradition of military service, and the impressive accomplishments and commitment demonstrated by these students should make Oklahomans proud."Each year, members of Congress are given the opportunity to nominate a certain number of students from their district to the U.S. Air Force, Merchant Marine, Military, and Naval Academies. The students nominated become eligible for an appointment, and if selected will begin classes this fall.The process for receiving a nomination is highly competitive. Nominations are made based on a composite of academic factors including: school records, class rank, and SAT/ACT scores. They are also selected based on leadership potential, extracurricular activities, athletics, and physical fitness. The list below includes the names, hometowns and high school information of the students, as well as the academies to which they were nominated. At this time, the students' applications are being considered by the academies' selection committees for potential admission. Many of the students received nominations to multiple academies.Amanda C. McClelland, Lawton, MacArthur High School - MilitaryAustin S. Nesom, Tuttle, Tuttle High School - Air ForceBrent A. Chappell, Fletcher, (Home School) - Naval, Military, Merchant MarineColeman D. Gracey, Tuttle, Tuttle High School - Military, Naval, Merchant MarineDavid P. Figueroa, Midwest City, Carl Albert Senior High School - Air ForceDillon G. Bryant, Lawton, Cache High School - Military, Air Force, NavalDillon S. VanVleet, Lawton, MacArthur High School - Air ForceJeremy D. Penry, Oklahoma City, Westmoore High School - Air ForceJoshua T. Christen, Tuttle, Tuttle High School - Naval, Military, Merchant MarineKarli O. Boothe, Tipton, Tipton High School - NavalKenan C. Bell, Norman, Norman North High School (Class of 2009) - Air Force (Kenan is currently attending the Wentworth Military Academy.)Kolby T. Vaverka, Midwest City, Midwest City High School - Military, Air ForceMichael H. Ricken, Lawton, MacArthur High School - Air Force, Naval, Military, Merchant MarineSeth R. Bayless, Ardmore, Ardmore High School - NavalTanner C. Faulkner, Newalla, McLoud High School (Class of 2009) - Air Force, Military, Merchant Marine (Tanner is currently attending the U.S. Air Force Preparatory School.)Tanner L. Sellers, Midwest City, Choctaw High School - Air Force, Military, Naval, Merchant Marine###
01.25.2010	WASHINGTON - Oklahoma’s House Delegation is urging Speaker Pelosi to exclude any unfunded federal mandates from the final health care bill. In a letter to the Speaker, the House Delegation said the unfunded Medicaid mandates in the House-passed bill would have a crippling effect on the state of Oklahoma. “As a delegation, we are deeply concerned this mandate would force drastic funding cuts for valuable state programs and significantly deteriorate the choice and quality of Oklahomans’ health care programs,” they wrote. The House-passed health care bill, opposed by Oklahoma’s entire House delegation, contained provisions that would expand Medicaid eligibility to 133 percent of the federal poverty line. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office estimated the cost of this expansion to be $26 billion, which would amount to a $128 million annual expense for the state of Oklahoma. “The state of Oklahoma simply cannot afford to pay for the cost of this bill,” said Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-05), who noted that state revenue had fallen 31 percent below projections in December and statewide programs had been cut ten percent. “I want Speaker Pelosi to know this unfunded mandate will surely break the bank in our state and reduce the quality and availability of programs in Oklahoma. States should have the freedom to pursue the programs that work best for them.” Fallin said she was also concerned the unfunded mandates would stifle the growth of Insure Oklahoma, a partnership program specifically designed to provide affordable health care coverage for Oklahoma’s families and small businesses who can’t afford quality coverage. Some 20 insurance providers offer about 400 products to enrolees. “These are the types of affordable health care choices Oklahoman taxpayers support,” said Fallin. “It’s not fair to ask them to finance backroom deals exempting other states while the quality of our own program suffers.” Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) said, “At a time when our state is facing cuts to vital programs for Oklahomans, allowing additional unfunded federal mandates will only make an already difficult budgeting situation worse. Health care reform should consist of cost-conscious reforms that empower patients and improve care -- not sweetheart deals that create winners and losers out of our state governments.” Congressman John Sullivan (OK-01) commented, “Simply put, health care reform should lower health care costs not raise them for Oklahoma families and our state. Unfortunately, the Democrat health care bills contain several unfunded mandates on state budgets and tremendous costs that will drive up our nation’s debt and limit access to quality health care. Oklahomans deserve an honest and open debate on this trillion dollar government takeover of our healthcare system and it’s time to scrap these bills and start over.” ###
01.06.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) issued the following statement today supporting C-SPAN's request to air coverage of the health care reform negotiations. "The fact that the Democrat leadership and the Obama White House have decided to negotiate the final version of health care reform without a formal conference committee and with no Republican participation is bad enough. But to do so behind closed doors and without the slightest trace of transparency is unconscionable," Congressman Cole said. "The American people are deeply concerned about a government takeover of their health care system but instead of listening to their concerns, the Democrats are effectively slamming the door in their face." "President Obama pledged during his campaign that the health care debate would be televised on C-SPAN. The President should honor his pledge and let the media cover these deliberations. If he and his liberal allies in Congress are determined to destroy the health care system in America through a government takeover, they ought to have the courage to do it openly instead of hiding behind closed doors." ###
12.08.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) announced today that he will be holding a town hall meeting in Chickasha on the campus of the University of Science and Arts of Oklahoma (USAO) in the Troutt Building's TeAta Auditorium. Cole will be available to answer questions and members of his staff will be on hand to assist with federal casework."This meeting will be held on Saturday to accommodate residents of the Fourth District who may have difficulty making it to weekday town hall meetings," Congressman Cole said. "This year the Congress has debated drastic changes in health care policy, energy taxes and dozens of other critical policy issues that will affect Oklahomans. I want to invite citizens from Chickasha and surrounding communities to join me for this town hall meeting and ask their questions about the latest going on in Washington."Please contact Cole's office in Norman at (405) 329-6500 for more information about this meeting. Town Hall Meeting Details:Saturday, December 12th10:00 a.m.USAO, Troutt BuildingTeAta Auditorium1727 West AlabamaChickasha, OK 73018
12.08.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Tom Cole (R-OK) and Congressmen Dale E. Kildee (D-MI), Co-Chairs of the House Native American Caucus, praised today’s announcement of a long-awaited settlement of the Cobell lawsuit regarding the mismanagement of over 300,000 individual Indian trust accounts by the U.S. Government. "I am very pleased that the Cobell case has finally reached a compromise between the federal government and the litigants. After 13 long years of litigation, Native Americans have been vindicated after the Department of Interior's blatant mismanagement of tribal lands. Though I would like to see individual plaintiffs receiving a more substantial compensation, I am glad that the U.S. government was finally willing to acknowledge past mistakes and offer a measure of compensation to the injured parties. It is my sincere hope that these monies will be distributed quickly and efficiently,” said Congressman Cole. “The tribal trust land management must still undergo serious reform; however, this decision is an important step to granting Native Americans the compensation they deserve and correcting over a century of government negligence."“Today’s announcement that the Cobell case has been settled after 13 years of litigation will bring welcome closures to our Native American tribes. This decision will help make amends for the past mismanagement of Indian trust funds by the U.S. Government, as well as bring much needed resources to address fractionated Indian lands. While this is an important step, this is not the end of the fight for justice on behalf of Indian trust assets, and I will continue to fight to ensure that our tribes are treated in a fair and equitable manner,” said Congressman Kildee. “I commend President Obama, Attorney General Holder and Interior Secretary Salazar for their attention to this matter and their continued efforts to strengthen the relationship between the United States and tribal nations.” The class action case, which involves several hundred thousand plaintiffs, was filed by Elouise Cobell in 1996 and has spanned the past 13 years. Under the negotiated agreement, a fund totaling $1.4 billion will be distributed to class members to compensate them for their historical accounting claims and to resolve claims that past U.S. officials mismanaged the administration of trust assets. In addition, the settlement establishes a $2 billion fund for the voluntary buy-back and consolidation of fractionated land interests. The land consolidation program will provide individual Indians with an opportunity to obtain cash payments for divided land interests and free up the land for the benefit of tribal communities. ###
12.02.2009	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) issued the following statement regarding President Obama's recent speech on the way forward in Afghanistan. "I believe the President made a compelling case for why it is absolutely critical that America defeat al Qaeda and prevent its capacity to threaten America and our allies," Congressman Cole said. "And while I would have been more comfortable with the original recommendation of General McChrystal to increase troops by 40,000, I am still pleased with the addition of 30,000 new troops and the increased contributions of our NATO allies. However, I am troubled by the suggestion that we plan to bring our troops home in 18 months. Wars aren't usually fought on timelines, and if conditions on the ground are not adequately considered, setting a deadline is a mistake. We have an opportunity to win this war and we need to take it. If the President is truly committed to winning by making the difficult decisions that a Commander in Chief is expected to make, I predict he'll have the support of the American people and strong bipartisan support in the Congress." ###
11.20.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) issued the following statement regarding the Labor Department's announcement that Oklahoma's unemployment rate rose from 6.8 percent to 7.1 percent during October."The unemployment rate increased nationally in October and now so has Oklahoma's," Congressman Cole said. "A year ago our state's unemployment rate was 4.2 percent, now it's checking in at 7.1 percent. This means more Oklahomans are struggling to find jobs and provide for their families. And although we're still below the 10.2 percent national average, Oklahomans and the rest of the American people were told that unemployment would not go above 8 percent nationally. The 'stimulus' plan was supposed to generate millions of jobs - but since it was passed more than 3.3 million jobs have been lost. As if that weren't bad enough, Americans now know that the government can't even accurately account for how these stimulus funds have been spent. Oklahomans want real solutions that generate jobs - not bigger government and more reasons to mistrust it."###
11.18.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole provided the following comments after hearing reports that the web site that tracks spending from the nearly $800 billion stimulus bill, Recovery.gov, misreported the number of Congressional districts in the state of Oklahoma. Fox News reported that jobs were listed as created in nine Oklahoma Congressional districts. Currently, the state only has five Congressional districts. In addition, ABC News reported that "recovery.gov lists more than $19 million in spending - and 15 jobs created - in yet more congressional districts that don't exist" within Oklahoma. "These inaccuracies are either the result of gross incompetence or deliberate dishonesty," Congressman Cole said. "But either way, it points out the fact that the stimulus has been a disappointing failure. The Obama Administration claimed it would create millions of new jobs, yet our national unemployment rate has skyrocketed to over ten percent. And their obvious inability to track the money and measure its results accurately should be deeply disturbing to the American taxpayer - especially in light of the attempted government takeover of our health care system. If the government can't run a web site, do we really trust them to run our nation's health care system?" ###
11.07.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) issued the following statement after House Democrats passed an unprecedented, government run health care plan, H.R. 3962. "The Oklahomans I represent oppose this bill because they know what it does and what it does not do," Congressman Cole said. "They understand that this bill will raise taxes, not lower them and that it will grow government, instead of shrinking it. They know that this legislation weakens Medicare, instead of strengthening it. And they understand that during a time when unemployment has reached 10.2%, we don't need a bill that destroys jobs. They understand that this bill will force state governments to cut services and raise taxes and it will put government bureaucrats rather than health care professionals in charge of their health care system." "This bill does not include common sense health care reforms that Oklahomans do support - such as tort reform and the establishment of tax deductions for individual purchasers. My constituents want a plan that establishes national insurance markets and association health plans that would allow small businesses to provide affordable insurance to their employees. Oklahomans rightly believe the Pelosi health care bill is a giant step backwards and it's one that I don't support." ###
11.06.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In response to the Bureau of Labor Statistics report that 190,000 jobs were lost in October, bringing the unemployment rate to 10.2%, U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) issued the following statement:"We haven't seen this rate of unemployment since 1983," Congressman Cole said. "This should be a wake up call for the Administration and members of the majority in Congress. Instead of focusing their efforts on job creation, they've pushed an expensive, government takeover of our nation's health care. Earlier this year Congress passed a stimulus package that was allegedly going to create more than three million jobs. Not only did those jobs not materialize, more than 2.8 million jobs have been lost since the passage of that legislation. These figures make it clear that the economic policies being pursued by the Obama Administration are not working.###
11.05.2009	The office launches a new website for district residents. It is aimed to allow site visitors to have access to the latest information from Capitol Hill. Constituents can make requests such as receiving assistance with Federal Agencies, apply for an appointment to one of the U.S. military academies, and request a Presidential greeting. District residents can view the latest news by signing up for the website's RSS feed.
11.04.2009	JOINT RELEASE WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Tom Cole recently sent a letter to Oklahoma Senate President Pro Tempore Glenn Coffee and Oklahoma House Speaker Chris Benge asking them to assess the impact on the state of Oklahoma if Speaker Pelosi's health care bill, H.R. 3962, passes. The bill is expected to be considered late this week. In a letter to President Pro Tempore Coffee and Speaker Benge, Cole posed the following four questions: 1. Can Oklahoma afford these unfunded mandates in the current fiscally constrained environment?; 2. Should the House version of health care reform pass, what are your plans for fully funding the unfunded mandate that will be transferred to Oklahoma?; 3. Would new taxes on citizens of Oklahoma be necessary to cover the increased cost of Medicaid?; 4. What do you believe the actual cost would be to Oklahoma? "It's abundantly clear that Speaker Pelosi either hasn't asked or doesn't care how states are affected by her expensive health care plan," Congressman Cole said. "Every state in the nation is struggling with severe budget shortfalls and yet the liberals in Congress are prepared to shift $34 billion in unfunded mandates to state governments. And since most state governments are not allowed to spend money they don’t have, this will result in draconian cuts in vital state services and/or steep tax increases – neither of which is acceptable to me, Pro-Tem Coffee, or Speaker Benge.” "This legislation will be a disaster for Oklahoma," President Pro Tempore Glenn Coffee (R-Oklahoma City) added. "We’re plugging leaks in the dam already, and these unfunded mandates would cause it to burst. Our fiscal situation, while grim, is not nearly as dire as most other states. This is a bipartisan, multi-state issue. The results will be the same in states led by Republicans and Democrats alike. I urge my counterparts in other states to make their voices heard within their respective Congressional delegations." “In Oklahoma, we have put in place market and consumer driven reforms that are working to move our state’s uninsured onto private insurance, all while improving access to affordable health care for all of our citizens,” said Speaker Benge (R-Tulsa). “I wish Washington would give states the maximum amount of flexibility possible to craft a health care plan that best meets individual state needs. A one-size-fits-all health care policy is not the answer for Oklahoma, or our country as a whole. Thankfully, Congressman Cole and the rest of our congressional delegation agrees with me, and I am confident they will fight this legislation not only on behalf of our country but our state as well.” ###
11.02.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) announced today that his district office in Ada is moving locations, effective November 5. The office has relocated to the Sugg Clinic Office Building, located at 100 East 13th Street, Suite 213."In an effort to better meet the needs of my constituents, my office has relocated to a new building in Ada," Congressman Cole said. "I want to invite residents from the area to stop by our new location and learn more about the services my office provides. Members of my staff are on hand to help answer questions and assist with casework. I am very pleased to represent the people of the Fourth District and proud to have an office in the Ada community."Cole has maintained an office in Ada since entering Congress in 2003. Cole also has offices in Norman and Lawton. The new mailing address for Cole's relocated office in Ada is:Congressman Tom Cole Sugg Clinic Office Building100 East 13th Street, Suite 213Box 13Ada, OK 74820###
10.29.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) provided the following remarks after House Democrats revealed their latest health care proposal earlier today. "The introduction of this legislation makes it abundantly clear that the liberals who control Congress, and the Obama administration, either weren't listening to the American people, or simply don't care what we have to say," Congressman Cole said. "The latest version of their health care legislation will raise taxes, increase costs, restrict coverage and shift massive expenses to state governments who are in no position to absorb additional financial responsibilities." "In numerous town hall meetings, my constituents made it very clear that they are opposed to the proposed government takeover of our health care system and that they are appalled at the explosive growth in government. This bill is just more of the same and I will strongly oppose it." ###
10.21.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) provided the following comments regarding his recent co-sponsorship of a resolution acknowledging the participants of the 9/12 Taxpayer March on Washington which took place on September 12th. "Last month, hundreds of thousands of Americans came to D.C. for the Taxpayer March on Washington," Congressman Cole said. "I was pleased to meet with a group of Oklahomans who made the trip to express their deep concern over skyrocketing national debt, the proposed government takeover of health care, the appointment of unaccountable czars, and numerous other expansions in the size, scope and expense of the federal government." "I applaud the patriotic Americans who took the time out of their busy lives to demand a return to open, accountable, responsible, constitutionally-based government. Their efforts to preserve liberty should be commended. I want to thank them for participating in the march and making their voice heard." ###
10.16.2009	WASHINGTON - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) announced today that he will be holding a town hall meeting at Southmoore High School in Moore early next week. Cole will be available to answer questions and members of his staff will be on hand to assist with federal casework."The meetings I held in August were very informative," Congressman Cole said. "But I believe that the dialogue about health care and other issues of national importance needs to continue. That's why I hope residents from the Fourth District will join me for this town hall meeting."Please contact Cole's office in Norman at (405) 329-6500 for more information about this meeting. Town Hall Meeting Details:Monday, October 19th5:30 p.m.Southmoore High SchoolAuditorium2901 S. Santa FeMoore, OK 73160###
10.15.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement regarding the lack of jobs created by the stimulus bill."Eight months ago the Administration and Democrats in Congress pushed through a nearly $800 billion so-called 'stimulus' bill that was supposed to lead to the creation of nearly 3.5 million jobs. However, recent statistics suggest that since the time the 'stimulus' bill was passed America has actually lost almost 2.3 million jobs. The unemployment rate, which the President said would not exceed eight percent with the implementation of the stimulus is now approaching 10 percent and climbing." "The only place where the job creation goals of the Obama Administration have been met is in Washington, D.C. This is to be expected from legislation designed to expand the size and scope of the federal government. The Administration and liberals in Congress need to rethink their strategy for economic development by focusing more on small businesses and less on big government.""To truly help small businesses and stir job creation, we need policies that cut taxes and reform health care costs. This will empower employees to retain their current workforce and hire new employees. We should also lower taxes for all taxpayers. This will provide an immediate increase in income for every taxpaying family in America. I strongly urge the members of the majority in Congress and the President to consider these options. Unless and until they do, Americans will be left to wonder 'where are the jobs?'"###
10.08.2009	WASHINGTON - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) gave the following statement regarding H.R. 2647, the National Defense Authorization Act for FY2010, a bill that sets annual defense policy and authorizes the Department of Defense budget. This bill also contains controversial language related to so-called hate crimes legislation. "I have a long and consistent record of supporting America's Armed Forces. In fact, just this past June I voted for a clean version of the National Defense Authorization Act. But I find it unconscionable that the legislation would come out of a conference committee with completely unrelated - and extremely controversial - language attached to it." "If the Majority party wants to bring hate crimes legislation to the floor for a vote, they should bring it as a stand alone bill without attaching it to legislation regarding our national defense. The Democrat leaders know that a vast majority of Republican members support America's Armed Forces, so this is nothing more than an effort to blackmail the Republicans into supporting their far left social agenda. Such actions divide this House and our country on an issue which should unite us - the defense of the United States." "Unfortunately this is not the first time Democrats have employed this deplorable tactic. Earlier this year, House Democrats chose to tie supplemental war funding to a global bailout for the International Monetary Fund. That move resulted in almost unanimous Republican opposition to the bill. Now Democrats are at it again. Congressional Democrats need to understand that the U.S. government has no higher priority than the security of our nation. We must stop playing these shameful partisan games on issues of grave importance to the nation and the men and women who defend it." ###
10.02.2009	Bill Clarifies Indian Reorganization Act of 1934 WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) recently introduced H.R. 3697 a bill that would amend the Indian Reorganization Act of 1934 (IRA) to reaffirm the authority of the Secretary of Interior to take land into trust for Indian tribes. Land into Trust is a process of converting land from a private or individual title to a federal title, allowing the land to belong to the United States. Earlier this year the Supreme Court ruled that a modern reading of the IRA did not adequately provide authority for the Secretary of the Interior to take land into trust for the Narragansett Indian Tribe of Rhode Island. Many tribes in existence today were not federally recognized before the 1934 law was passed. Cole's bill makes clarifying changes to the IRA of 1934 so that the Interior Department will be able to continue to acquire trust lands for tribes, regardless of the date a tribe was federally recognized. Cole's legislation is a companion bill to the Senate version, S.1703, which was introduced by Senator Byron Dorgan (NC) on September 24. Senator Dorgan is the chairman of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee. "This bill will clarify federal law to ensure all federally-recognized Indian tribes are able to participate in the Trust process with the United States," Congressman Cole said. "There has been too much confusion with the way the law is currently written. The Trust process was meant to allow tribes to purchase lands for their benefit. Without the changes Senator Dorgan and I have proposed, there will still be questions about which tribes can legitimately enter into a Trust agreement with the United States. It is my hope that this legislation will be taken up in short order." ###
09.29.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) provided the following comments on the passing of Henry Bellmon."Henry Bellmon was a great American, a great Oklahoman and a great Republican. He first served his country in combat as a marine in the South Pacific during the Second World War. When he returned home he was elected to the State House of Representatives and later became Republican State Chairman. Next he served as the first Republican governor of our state. He served two terms in the U.S. Senate and was then reelected as governor. Over the years, Henry Bellmon served the people of Oklahoma in every conceivable fashion in terms of public service, private commitment and personal example. He laid the foundation for the modern two-party system in Oklahoma and is rightfully called the 'father of the Oklahoma Republican Party.' I had the pleasure and privilege of serving as State Republican Chairman when he was elected for the second time as governor. Later, I served in the State Senate during his administration. Henry Bellmon led on every issue with courage, commitment, integrity and an unwavering sense of optimism about Oklahoma and its future. Like tens of thousands of other Oklahomans, I honor and appreciate his life, mourn his loss and offer my heartfelt sympathy to his family. Henry Bellmon was an Oklahoma political pioneer - we won't see his like again."###
09.25.2009	WASHINGTON - Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) added his name to a discharge petition calling for House Democratic leadership to give members of Congress - and the public - at least 72 hours to look over major legislation before it is voted on. "This year a budget-busting 'stimulus' bill and a 'cap-and-tax' on energy have been rushed through the House," Congressman Cole said. "While I voted 'no' on both of these bills, I'm sure some members of Congress rubber-stamped the legislation without reading it. We need to give more time for the American people and their representatives to read the language of major bills. This way, Congress will be better informed and hopefully stop the trend of hyper-legislating. With our country facing a record deficit and working to recover from an economic downturn, we cannot afford to make rushed and uninformed decisions on legislation." A discharge petition is a legislative tool used to bring a bill to the floor for consideration after it has been held in committee for more than thirty days. After the petition receives 218 signatures, it is placed on the Discharge Calendar where it remains for seven days, giving the original committee of jurisdiction the time to act. If there is no action by the committee after that timeframe the petition will be considered by the House. Finally, if the petition is approved, the original bill will either be considered immediately or added to the schedule of one of the legislative calendars. This discharge petition was drafted by Rep. Greg Walden (OR- 2), Rep. Brian Baird (WA-3) and Rep. John Culberson (TX-7). ###
09.24.2009	"Defeating these Amendments is a Disservice to the American People" WASHINGTON - Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) recently introduced two amendments during a conference committee on the FY2010 Legislative Branch Appropriations bill. Cole's first amendment would have prevented the Treasury from re-spending TARP funds that banks have repaid and prohibited the Secretary of Treasury from extending the TARP program beyond the end of 2009. Cole's second amendment would have prohibited funding for czars that do not have statutory authorizations - unless the President certifies the czar will respond to requests from Congress for testimony and information. Cole's amendments were defeated on a party line vote in conference committee. Cole's Comments on czars, TARP and the amendments: "The President has brought in dozens of czars without the advice and consent of the Senate. These individuals perform duplicative duties, waste money and are not held accountable. My amendment was an effort to apply real transparency in government and stop the proliferation of czars by the Obama administration." "Secretary Geithner has said that our economy has moved from crisis to recovery. But our nation's debt is still over $11 trillion. Our country's enormous debt is just as much of a threat to the fiscal stability of our nation as the troubles of private companies that received TARP monies were. Preventing the Treasury from extending the TARP program and stopping the program's repaid funds from being re-spent are important provisions that should have been passed." Cole's Comments on the conference committee process: "I knew when I offered my amendments that they were unlikely to be adopted. However, I think it's critical that we start a bipartisan dialogue on these topics. I'm proud every House Republican on the conference committee saw the wisdom of these amendments. And I'm also pleased the Appropriations Chairman, David Obey of Wisconsin, said he was 'half persuaded' by my argument that any money repaid to the TARP fund should not be reused by the executive branch for other purposes. I'm hopeful that in the months ahead we can continue to discuss these issues and arrive at the bipartisan consensus that recycling TARP funds and appointing unsupervised, so-called czars are dangerous overreaches by the executive power. Frankly, I suspect my Democrat colleagues are as uneasy about the abuse of executive power as I am." After a bill passes the House and the Senate it moves to a special conference committee where selected members of Congress are able to debate and reconcile the legislation's differences. Once the differences are resolved, a conference report is put together and both chambers must once again vote on and approve the legislation. This was Cole's first time to serve on a conference committee. ###
09.18.2009	WASHINGTON - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) provided the following statement regarding news that President Obama has chosen to abandon plans for the European Missile Defense site, which would have placed 10 missile interceptors in Poland and a radar in the Czech Republic. "The announcement to abandon our plans for a missile defense shield in Poland and the Czech Republic is extremely disappointing," Congressman Cole said. "This is a grave error that could potentially undermine our country's strategic influence and diplomatic relations in the European region. Ground-based missile defenses are effective deterrents that stymie aggression from unfriendly nations. With unpredictable regimes working to get their hands on nuclear capabilities, we cannot afford to stand down." "This is a reckless and dangerous decision by the President. And it is compounded by the fact that the Democrat majority has already stripped $1.2 billion out of our existing missile defense budget since taking control of Congress. The government has no more important and legitimate purpose than to protect our national security. These decisions are an abandonment of that purpose." ###
09.17.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Cole (OK-04) issued the following statement regarding the observance of Constitution Day on September 17."I would like to encourage parents and teachers to take time to discuss the significance of Constitution Day with their children," Congressman Cole said. "The Constitution is among our most significant and important founding documents and it is literally the foundation upon which our system of government is built. It is very important for future generations of Americans to learn about and respect the Constitution."This year marks the 222nd anniversary of the completion of the Constitution. On this day, the 39 delegates to the Constitutional Convention met in Philadelphia for the last time to finalize and sign this great work that took them over four months to complete. We have marked this day as a national holiday since 2004.To help celebrate and learn about this significant day, the Congressional Joint Committee on Printing publishes pocket Constitutions for Members of Congress to make available to interested schools. Congressman Cole has provided these materials to several schools in the Fourth District.###
09.17.2009	WASHINGTON - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) made the following statement today after voting against H.R. 3221, The Student Aid and Financial Responsibility Act. "This is just another fundamentally-flawed government takeover," Congressman Cole said. "Abolishing the Federal Family Education Loan student loan program in order to institute a government-run lending program that pulls dollars from the already overdrawn U.S. Treasury is a mistake. We should be helping make higher education more affordable and accessible to students, not further jeopardizing the fiscal stability of our country. Overthrowing an existing loan program that has made more than 200 million loans available to families and students is not the answer." "This government takeover of our student loan system is all too similar to ongoing attempts to inject more government into our health care system. The so-called 'public option' will destroy the private health care market. This legislation does the same things with respect to the student loan industry. It will cost taxpayers billions, eliminate private jobs and make students and colleges more dependent on the federal government."###
09.16.2009	WASHINGTON - Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) recently co-sponsored the "Defund ACORN Act." This legislation calls for the federal government to cut financial ties with the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now (ACORN). Cole has consistently condemned the housing association's abuses and wants the federal government to stop sending taxpayer dollars to ACORN and its affiliates."It defies common sense and common decency that an organization like ACORN receives any federal funding," Congressman Cole said. "The numerous incidents of voter registration fraud should have been enough to stop funding this criminal enterprise, but the recent video tape of ACORN employees making suggestions to a couple as to how they could better conceal and profit from an underage prostitution ring is simply too much. Federal funding for ACORN must stop immediately and permanently."###
09.15.2009	WASHINGTON - Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) issued the following statement today denouncing efforts to condemn Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02)."Congressman Wilson has already apologized to the President and the President has already accepted that apology," Congressman Cole said. "Today's vote was nothing more than an unnecessary partisan distraction. Congressman Wilson is a good man, a good legislator and a National Guard veteran with 31 years of service. His initial apology should have been enough. This unwarranted action by the Democratic majority will make this a House that is more rather than less partisan in its tone and demeanor."###
09.11.2009	Park Chosen to Appear on CoinWASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) issued the following statement acknowledging the Chickasaw National Recreation Area and the recent decision by the Treasury Department to include the park's image on the Oklahoma quarter-dollar to be issued in 2011 as part of the America the Beautiful Quarters Program."I am pleased that the Treasury Department has chosen to depict the Chickasaw National Recreation Area on a new quarter," Congressman Cole said. "The park is one of the oldest national parks in the country and it boasts a proud history. While it has gone through a number of changes since it was originally authorized as the Sulphur Springs Reservation, it has always been a relaxing place for Oklahomans to enjoy the beauty of our state. Placing its image on a coin is a wonderful way to highlight the importance of this park. I am very pleased with this decision and proud to represent the Chickasaw National Recreation Area and the surrounding communities."The present-day Chickasaw National Recreation Area is located south of Sulphur, Okla. In 1902 the Park was originally authorized as the Sulphur Springs Reservation. Four years later it was renamed the Platt National Park. Areas adjacent to Platt National Park such as the Arbuckle National Recreation Area were combined together in 1976 and established as the Chickasaw National Recreation Area. To learn more about the Chickasaw National Recreation Area please visit https://www.nps.gov. ###
09.10.2009	Congressman Calls for More Accountability in Presidential Appointments WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) recently cosponsored legislation calling for more transparency in Presidential appointments. Specifically, Cole cosponsored H.R. 3226, the "Czar Accountability and Reform Act of 2009," introduced by Representative Jack Kingston (GA-01). If passed, funding will be withheld from any task force, council, or czar that is not confirmed by the Senate. "The President has appointed dozens of czars since coming into office," Congressman Cole said. "The words 'advice and consent of the Senate' from Article II, Section 2 of our Constitution should not be taken lightly. But the vast majority of these individuals have not undergone Senate hearings and confirmation. Despite this fact, they have been given considerable salaries, staff, and budgets for travel and office expenses. This duplicative government is wasteful, unaccountable and should be brought to an end." ###
09.09.2009	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) issued the following statement regarding President Obama's speech on health care given during a joint session of Congress."The American people do not want another speech. They want a sensible bipartisan health care plan that lowers costs, increases coverage and avoids tax increases or benefit cuts.""Citizens from my state and all across the country have made their voices heard during the August recess. They don't want a government takeover of healthcare. They don't want a public option. They don't want bureaucracy wedged between them and their personal physicians. And in terms of the trigger mechanism that has been discussed - I believe the only reason to have a trigger is if someone intends to pull it. I want to prevent the government takeover of our health care system, not just postpone it.""The President has squandered many opportunities to make this bill better and to garner bipartisan support for health care reform. There are many worthwhile ideas that have been left out of the discussion. For example, we could lower costs dramatically by embracing real tort reform and eliminating lawsuit abuse which drives up costs for doctors and patients alike. We could allow consumers to purchase health insurance across state lines, allowing them to shop for the best deal. And we could allow self-employed consumers to purchase health insurance with pre-tax dollars, just like consumers who have their health insurance provided to them, in part, by their employer. All of these proposals would draw strong bipartisan support.""In the days ahead we'll find out whether or not the President and liberal Democrats are actually prepared to negotiate in good faith with Republicans and conservative Democrats to pass a bipartisan reform bill that all of us can support and be proud of."###
08.19.2009	Ada and Ardmore Town Hall Location Changes IncludedWASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) announced today that he will be adding an additional town hall meeting in Mustang, Okla., on Monday, August 24th from 1:30 - 3:00 p.m.Congressman Cole will be available to answer questions about federal legislation such as the health care bill. Rep. Cole will also have staff members on hand to answer specific questions related to federal casework. Monday, August 24th1:30 - 3:00 p.m.Mustang Town Center1201 N. Mustang Rd.Mustang, OK 73064 In addition, Rep. Cole recently announced location changes for Ada and Ardmore town hall meetings. These changes were made to accommodate more area citizens interested in attending. Please contact Rep. Cole's office in Norman at (405) 329-6500 for additional information. Wednesday, August 26th5:30pmDorothy Summers Auditorium, Science HallEast Central University1100 E. 14th StreetAda, OK 74820 Thursday, August 27th12:00, noonArdmore Convention Center2401 N. Rockford RoadArdmore, OK 73401###
08.14.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) announced today that he will be holding five town hall meetings in the month of August. Congressman Cole will be available to answer questions and address concerns about federal legislation. Members of Cole's staff will also be available to assist residents with federal casework."I'm looking forward to talking with residents of the Fourth District at these town hall meetings," Congressman Cole said. "I appreciate the opportunity to listen to people's concerns and discuss the latest proposals being considered in Washington. The feedback I receive at these meetings helps keep me informed so that I can do a better job representing the people of the Fourth Congressional District. I want to invite everyone to join me at these meetings."This series of town hall meetings will be held between August 4th and August 27th. Please contact Cole's office in Norman at (405) 329-6500 for more information about the town hall meetings.Tuesday, August 4th12:00, noonRed River Technology CenterMain Bldg Seminar Room3300 W Bois D' ArcDuncan, OK 73533Tuesday, August 11th12:00, noonMoore Public Library, Meeting Room A225 S. Howard Ave.Moore, OK 73160Thursday, August 13th12:00, noonCameron UniversityCETES Conference Center2800 W. Gore BlvdLawton, OK 73505Wednesday, August 26th (UPDATED ADDRESS AS OF 8/14/2009)5:30pmDorothy Summers Auditorium, Science HallEast Central University1100 E. 14th StreetAda, OK 74820Thursday, August 27th (UPDATED ADDRESS AS OF 8/14/2009)12:00, noonArdmore Convention Center2401 N. Rockford RoadArdmore, OK 73401###
07.17.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today during the Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations Committee markup, U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) worked with members of the Committee to redirect $10 million dollars of funding for pediatric cancer research and eradication efforts. Cole is Oklahoma's sole member of the House Appropriations Committee. Specifically, language inserted into the manager's amendment at Congressman Cole's request will redistribute money away from the Department of Health and Human Services' administrative budget, and instead apply it to the National Cancer Institute in order to conduct special research into pediatric cancers. This redistribution will finally provide funding for the Caroline Pryce Walker Conquer Childhood Cancer Act of 2008. Former Congresswoman Deborah Pryce introduced the bill which is named for her daughter, Caroline. The legislation was passed in 2008 by a vote of 416-0. Prior to today the program had received no federal funding. In addition, Congressman Bob Latta (OH-5) helped secure the language that was included in the bill that ensures a portion of the Caroline Pryce Walker Act was funded as there is an ongoing childhood cancer cluster study happening in his district. "I am pleased that I was able to help redirect these funds towards researching pediatric cancer," Congressman Cole said. "There are very few people whose lives are not touched in some way by cancer. But it is particularly heart-wrenching when children are stricken by the disease. We have a responsibility to combat pediatric cancer by investing in promising technology and research efforts that will help cure the disease." "I want to thank Chairman Obey for his willingness to negotiate and make sure this money is put to good use. In addition, Congressman Latta deserves kudos for his efforts to move the Caroline Pryce Walker Act forward. This is an example of a truly bipartisan effort to help research and eradicate a serious health concern that has affected many of our nation's children." The legislative language that directs the funding of the Caroline Pryce Walker Act will be included in the manager's amendment. It is considered a budget neutral allocation. The manager's amendment will be applied to the Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations bill when it goes to the floor. The bill will likely be introduced on the floor of the House sometime in the next few weeks. ###
07.14.2009	WASHINGTON – Today the House of Representatives passed H.Res.469, a resolution honoring the life and contributions of Wayman Tisdale. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) introduced the bill in May after Tisdale passed away."Wayman Tisdale was an outstanding athlete, a talented musician and an all-around inspiration to everyone who knew him or followed his extraordinary career," Congressman Cole said. "I am very pleased that this resolution has been passed in the House of Representatives. Wayman's life deserves to be acknowledged on the national stage.""Wayman rose to fame on the court - first as a Sooner, later on the U.S. Olympic team and finally as a pro basketball player. But he achieved well beyond the basketball court as a talented jazz musician. Wayman will be remembered for his faith in God and for being a testament to the power of positive thinking. His contributions to our country will not be forgotten."###
06.26.2009	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) issued the following statement today regarding H.R. 2454, the Waxman-Markey cap-and-trade bill. "The President said it best: cap-and-trade legislation will cause utility rates to 'skyrocket,'" Congressman Cole said. "The national energy tax the House passed today will cause energy prices to rise and it will force American manufacturers to relocate to other countries - countries with far less stringent environmental regulations than exist in the United States today." "It is sadly ironic that in their effort to turn down the thermostat of the earth, Congress has actually set in motion a policy that will cause skyrocketing utility prices, lost American jobs, and more CO2 produced by companies operating in countries with little or no environmental regulations. It is a high-cost, no-benefit approach that should have been rejected." "It is now up to the United States Senate to save the country from the disastrous consequences of legislation passed by the Democratic dominated House of Representatives," Cole concluded. ###
06.24.2009	Says "Taxpayer Payouts for Political Party Conventions and Presidential Elections Must Come to an End" WASHINGTON – Today Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) introduced two bills that seek to eliminate federal programs that currently use taxpayer dollars. Cole's first bill would terminate taxpayer financing of presidential election campaigns. The second bill would prohibit the use of public funding for political party conventions. "Washington spending is out of control," Congressman Cole said. "I believe most Americans would be shocked and appalled to know exactly how much of their federal tax dollars are used to fund political party conventions and presidential election campaigns. Frankly, this is an inappropriate use of taxpayer dollars - a practice that should have ended long ago." "I'm proud to join with other members of the Sunset Caucus to identify and eliminate wasteful programs like these. There are too many federal programs that the government has no business funding and these two are certainly among them." Cole is a member of the Republican Study Committee's "Sunset Caucus," a group that attempts to abolish unnecessary government programs. Cole's bills are part of a larger initiative, lead by Reps. Kevin Brady (TX-08) and Jason Chaffetz (UT-03) to strike-out wasteful programs from the federal budget. Congressman Jim Jordan (OH-04) is an original co-sponsor of both bills. ###
06.24.2009	WASHINGTON - Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) encouraged Oklahoma residents who sustained damages from April wildfires to apply for Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) aid. Affected citizens in the following Fourth District counties may be eligible for aid: Carter, Cleveland, Grady, McClain, Murray, Oklahoma and Stephens."In April, a series of wildfires burned across the state," Congressman Cole said. "Our firefighters fought hard to help Oklahomans save their homes, but despite their efforts, damages were sustained. The President has since issued a disaster declaration, and several counties in the Fourth District were included in the declaration. Now those affected can apply for individual disaster aid. I want to encourage those who sustained damages to their homes, property, and businesses to apply for this disaster aid."The incident period for the wildfires took place April 9-12, 2009. At this time federal funds are available to help individuals who sustained losses in Carter, Cleveland, Grady, Lincoln, McClain, Murray, Oklahoma, Payne and Stephens Counties. Affected residents and business owners can apply for assistance at www.DisasterAssistance.gov or by calling 1-800-621-FEMA. The line is toll-free and operated everyday from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. ###
06.16.2009	WASHINGTON – Today Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) issued the following statement regarding the emergency War Supplemental. Despite the House and Senate previously passing clean versions of the bill, the final version - the conference report - has been unnecessarily loaded with $108 billion in aid for the International Monetary Fund (IMF). "Last month, the House of Representatives passed a clean troop funding bill on a strong and bipartisan vote - I had hoped to be able to do so again today," Congressman Cole said. "But unfortunately the Administration and the Senate chose to load up an otherwise good bill with a $108 billion global bail out. This will permanently increase by ten fold the IMF's ability to borrow from the U.S. Treasury. And this comes at a time when our own national resources have been so depleted by the Obama Administration's spending spree, that we would have to borrow the money ourselves in order to make it available to the IMF. Something is seriously wrong with the idea that the United States will essentially borrow money from China in order to establish a line of credit for an international bank to make loans to foreign countries - some of whom are our enemies." "I am strongly in favor of funding our troops in the field of battle. But with the size of our troop commitment growing, and our new focus in Afghanistan unfolding, now is not the time to meddle with military funding measures. Unfortunately the Majority in the House of Representatives decided to push through with this legislation, knowing that they would lose the support of dozens of Republicans. It's clear that the Majority has lost the mantle of bipartisanship on this issue. If they are going to talk-the-talk of bipartisanship - they should remember to also walk-the-walk." ###
06.16.2009	Bill would Lower Energy Costs and Invest in New Energy Sources WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) made the following statement today after becoming a co-sponsor of the American Energy Act. "One of my top priorities in the 111th Congress is to make sure Congress implements comprehensive energy legislation that will curb the rising costs of fuel and energy prices," Congressman Cole said. "The American Energy Act takes an important step in accomplishing that goal. We are in a global economic slump and our economy cannot recover if it is crippled by sky-rocketing energy costs. I am in favor of an all-of-the-above approach that would lower energy costs, open areas for energy exploration, provide incentives for driving fuel efficient cars and invest in alternative fuel sources." "The American Energy Act would allow us to invest in innovative energy sources such as nuclear and solar power. Instead of adding duplicative energy taxes that would cause prices to soar even higher, the plan that I support would lower costs and take steps towards energy independence. In addition, this bill will provide important tax incentives for alternative fuel, hydrogen cell, and plug-in vehicles. These vehicles perform double-duty - they curb pollution and reduce our dependence on foreign oil." The American Energy Act is a comprehensive plan introduced by members of House Republican leadership. The plan will invest in new energy sources and open areas, such as the Outer Continental Shelf and Arctic Coastal Plain, for energy exploration. The Act would create 100 new nuclear reactors and invest money into clean coal, wind and solar technology. For more information about the American Energy Act, please visit www.gop.gov/energy. ###
06.11.2009	Allow Local Workers Back on Job – Resume NegotiationsWASHINGTON, DC – Today, the Oklahoma Congressional Delegation stressed their desire to allow locals to return to work at Vance Air Force Base and for CSC and the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAMAW) to begin broader negotiations in earnest.Leading the delegation in this effort, U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe said, “I am concerned for the local workers that will begin to feel the financial pinch if their pay checks do not resume. During these difficult economic times, I understand that increasing health costs and pay increases are especially important issues. I am concerned about the entire community of Enid who will also be impacted by the strike. While I was in Enid last Sunday night, I heard legitimate concerns from both sides of the table. None of the issues I heard were impassable. If the negotiations are taken out of the hands of outsiders and given to Gary Richardson and Jerry McCune, I believe we’d get Vance back flying again.Inhofe continued, “Because of the strike, damage has already been done that will make saving Vance in the future more difficult. However, that damage can be minimized if workers are allowed to return to work under the offer of a 30-day bridge contract with the assurance by both CSC and IAMAW that negotiations will resume. It is vital that work resume before classes of pilots are shipped off to other training venues.”“Vance Air Force Base has been a leader in training American pilots and, especially during a time of war, it would be devastating to see this mission transferred out of Oklahoma. It is critical to the Air Force and the town of Enid that an acceptable solution to this labor dispute is reached soon. It is my hope and belief that the parties involved will do what is right as quickly as possible,” said Senator Tom Coburn, M.D.Congressman Tom Cole stated, "The Vance Air Force Base needs to be positioned for long-term success - this means continuing the negotiations and sorting through the concerns of both parties so that an agreement can be reached. In the interim, the union should proceed responsibly and allow local workers to go back to work. Given the economic downturn, it is critically important for those workers to receive paychecks so that they can care for their families. Our state has never experienced a base closure. Our top priority should be to make sure that Vance remains open and active."Congressman Frank Lucas commented, “The current labor dispute at Vance Air Force Base continues to be hard on the economy of Enid and on the families stationed there. In addition, I am very concerned about the long term effects this strike may have on the future of Vance as well as the entire community of Enid. In the past, Vance has served as a model for how a successful base can thrive. I encourage all parties involved in negotiations to come to a fair compromise that will get the planes back in the air as quickly as possible.”Congresswoman Mary Fallin said, “As I told both parties this weekend, it is extremely important for this dispute to be resolved as quickly as possible. Vance Air Force Base is an important part of our national pilot training and plays an absolutely vital role in the health of the surrounding community. Keeping our planes grounded is threatening the future of this base as well as the economic security of its employees and the men and women of Enid. A 30 day bridge contract will allow us to get Vance up and running while the CSC and IAMAW work out a more permanent settlement.”Congressman Dan Boren added, “As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I believe that the longer this drags on the more it harms everyone involved. A resolution can only be reached if all parties come to the table in a constructive and reasonable manner. The employees, the base, and the community of Enid all greatly depend upon each other for the success of this negotiation, just as they do at any other time. I thank Senator Inhofe and Congressman Lucas for their leadership on this issue and I look forward to working with the Delegation to facilitate an amenable solution for all involved.”###
05.07.2009	Bill Discourages Detainee Transfers, Strengthens States Rights, Enacts Strict Guidelines for Administration WASHINGTON – Today U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) signed onto the Keep Terrorists Out of America Act. This legislation is similar to the bill Cole introduced in February, H.R. 1012, the Guantanamo Bay Detention Facility Safe Closure Act of 2009. Both pieces of legislation were designed to discourage the transfer or release of terrorists held at Guantanamo Bay onto United States soil. "First and foremost - dangerous terrorists from Guantanamo Bay should not be transferred to the United States," Congressman Cole said. "But if this Administration has its way, some of Guantanamo Bay's most notorious terrorists, like the mastermind of 9/11, will be relocated to prisons in communities across the country." "I strongly believe that states should have the right to refuse to accept international terrorists into their communities, even if it is into prisons. The Keep Terrorists Out of America Act will give state legislatures and governors the power to say no. The bill also ensures that strict certifications are met before a Guantanamo Bay prisoner is ever relocated to the United States. These are important protections that will help hold the Administration accountable, keep states in the driver's seat, and, most importantly, keep Americans safe." The following is a summary of the Keep Terrorists Out of America Act, provided by the Office of the Republican Leader: Affirming Congress’ Opposition to the Release and Transfer of Terrorists. The bill affirms Congress’ opposition to transferring or releasing terrorists held at the Guantanamo Bay prison into the United States. Most Americans do not support releasing these terrorists from Guantanamo Bay prison and transferring them into the United States. The bill gives Congress an opportunity to show that it stands with the American people on this critical matter, and opposes the release and transfer of these terrorists. Governor & State Legislature Pre-Approval. The measure prohibits the Administration from transferring or releasing any terrorist detainees at Guantanamo Bay to any state without express approval from the state’s governor and legislature, and certifies to Congress that strict requirements have been met. For example, the Administration must certify to the respective governor and state legislature that the detainee does not pose a security risk to the United States. The certifications must be made 60 days before any transfer or release. Presidential Certification Requirements. The measure prohibits the President from transferring or releasing a terrorist detainee into the United States unless he provides the following notification and certification to Congress regarding: · The name of the detainee and transfer/release location in the United States. · The release/transfer would not negatively impact continued prosecution of the detainee. · The release/transfer would not negatively impact continued detention of the detainee. · The ability of federal judges to release detainees into the United States. ###
04.04.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) announced today that he will be holding eight town hall meetings across the Fourth Congressional District in April. During these meetings, Representative Cole will meet with citizens to address their concerns. The meetings will be held in Ada, Ardmore, Midwest City, Marietta, Norman, Chickasha, Purcell and Lawton."I am looking forward to visiting with residents from the Fourth District," Congressman Cole said. "These town hall meetings help me read the pulse of Oklahomans and hear how I can better serve our state. I invite everyone to come and share their thoughts and concerns." This series of town hall meetings will be held between April 6 and 14. All Fourth District residents are invited to attend. Cole will be accompanied by members of his staff who can assist constituents with federal casework. Please contact Cole's office in Norman at (405) 329-6500 for more information about the town hall meetings. AdaMonday, April 6th5:30 pmEstep CenterEast Central University1100 E. 14th StreetAda, OK 74820 Midwest CityTuesday, April 7th12:00 pmReed Conference Center - "D" Room5800 Will Rogers RdMidwest City, OK 73110 NormanTuesday, April 7th5:30 pmNorman Regional Hospital Education Center - "Jimerson Auditorium"901 N. PorterNorman, OK 73071 PurcellWednesday, April 8th5:30 pmLighthouse Worship Center2726 N 9th Ave.Purcell, OK 73080 ArdmoreThursday, April 9th5:30 pmArdmore Convention Center2401 N. Rockford RoadArdmore, OK 73401 MariettaFriday, April 10th5:30 pmRed River Valley Rural ElectricCommunity Room1003 Memorial DriveMarietta, OK 73448 ChickashaTuesday, April 14th12:00 pmGrady County Fairgrounds-Community Building500 E. ChoctawChickasha, OK LawtonTuesday, April 14th5:30 pmCETES Conference Center- Cameron University2800 W. GoreLawton, OK###
04.03.2009	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) gave the following statement regarding H. Con. Res. 85, the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for fiscal year 2010, which passed yesterday in the House. "The size and scope of the Obama budget is simply staggering," Congressman Cole said. "It may have been handed down from the President, but members of Congress have a responsibility to make sure the taxpayer's dollars are spent appropriately. Unfortunately, the liberal majority in Congress has completely abdicated that responsibility. Their budget grows the deficit to nearly $10 trillion, triples the national debt over ten years and increases taxes by $1.5 trillion dollars. In a time of global economic crisis, our government is responding with an irresponsible, economically disastrous spending spree." "Every year since I have been in Congress I have voted for the lowest budget proposal. This year was no exception. That's why I supported both the Republican Study Committee's budget as well as the Republican Budget Alternative. These budgets spend far less and focus heavily on debt reduction. They reflect the values of hard working Americans who know that in tough economic times, you don't spend what you don't have, and you don't mortgage your children's future in order to ride out short term challenges." ###
03.27.2009	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) issued the following statement today regarding President Obama's call for a new strategy in Afghanistan and Pakistan. "The situation in Afghanistan is fluid, so I welcome the new strategic direction that the administration announced this morning," Congressman Cole said. "Many skilled military advisors have recommended a troop level increase to our President, and I am pleased that he is heeding their advice." "Al Qaeda extremists are continuing to use Afghanistan as a staging ground and then travelling to the northern provinces of Pakistan to find safe-haven. This is a complex problem that must be addressed. That's why I support President Obama's call for a regional approach that recognizes the nature of this conflict. We must work with Pakistan to address the fluidity of the border and encourage them to stand against the forces of terror that undermine the security of their own country, as well as the entire region." "I also want to commend the President for reaffirming our joint commitment to our allies to fight the forces of terror and extend freedom where it is threatened. Reaching victory will require us to continue to work in conjunction with other like-minded nations. Intense military and diplomatic efforts are needed to dismantle extremism and rebuild democracy abroad." "Finally, the sacrifices made by our U.S. military should never be far from our minds. They are the lynchpin of our nation's security. And as we move forward with troop increases, we must make sure that they have every resource necessary to succeed." ###
03.19.2009	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) gave the following statement today, calling for President Obama to remove Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner from his post."The Treasury Department has been on a collision course ever since Tim Geithner took the helm," Congressman Cole said. "From the very beginning his nomination was riddled with controversy. He didn't pay his taxes but was confirmed anyway, when only weeks later other administration nominees were toppled by similar tax delinquencies. Secretary Geithner was also a major architect of the budget-busting stimulus plan that has saddled our country with debt as far as the eye can see. And now we find out that despite President Obama's insistence that he only recently learned of the outrageous A.I.G. bonus payments, they were actually authorized by his own Treasury Secretary." "Simply put, it is clear that Secretary Geithner is in over his head and if he doesn't realize this fact and step down from his position, President Obama should remove him."###
03.18.2009	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) gave the following statement in an effort to encourage state, local and tribal law enforcement agencies to apply for federal grants through the COPS Hiring Recovery Program (CHRP). The grant application period closes April 14th."Like many organizations across the country, law enforcement agencies are not immune to the current economic downturn," Congressman Cole said. "Too many communities have been forced to cut back on the size of their police force. But Oklahomans stand to benefit from these job-creating and job-saving federal grants. The funds will help put police officers in uniform and get them back to doing what they do best - patrolling, policing and protecting. I hope that law enforcement agencies in the Fourth District will take advantage of this opportunity and apply for these grants."CHRP is a competitive grant program that makes funds available to law enforcement agencies across the country. The grant is intended to help create and save jobs in the law enforcement field and help agencies increase their policing capacity and crime-prevention efforts. More specifically, CHRP grants will provide 100 percent funding for approved entry-level salaries and benefits for 36 months for full-time, newly-hired officers or rehired officers who have been laid off or were scheduled to be laid off due to budget restraints. There is no cap on the number of positions an agency can request, but awards are limited to funding availability. At the conclusion of the federal funding period, grantees must retain officer positions awarded under the CHRP grant. The deadline to submit applications for CHRP is April 14th, 2009. Interested applicants can find more information and application materials at www.cops.usdoj.gov or call the COPS Office Response Center at 1-800-421-6770. ###
03.10.2009	Says Workers Deserve to Have Secret Ballots ProtectedWASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) criticized a bill introduced today which will eliminate secret ballots in union organizing elections. The so-called Employee Free Choice Act has also been described as "card check" and will replace the private vote with a public sign-up."The secret ballot is the foundation of American democracy," Congressman Cole said. "Forcing workers to publically disclose their decision about whether or not to join a union is not 'free choice.' Workers could be subject to bullying, pressure and intimidation based on their choice. I support the right of American workers to join a union if they choose to do so. But I strongly believe that they should have the right to make that choice through the use of a secret ballot."Cole is an original cosponsor of alternative legislation that would preserve workers' rights to a secret ballot. The bill, H.R. 1176, the Secret Ballot Protection Act would ensure that employers and unions cannot take away an employee's right to vote by secret ballot, in private. ###
02.26.2009	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) issued the following statement today in response to the President's FY2010 budget proposal."Many of America's families are facing foreclosures, struggling to pay their bills and losing their jobs," Congressman Cole said. "While the government has a responsibility to look after the interests of American citizens, I don't think a $3.5 trillion dollar budget proposal is what they had in mind. And to make matters worse, the proposal will spur tax hikes during a period of recession - a move I think is monumentally irresponsible.""Just two days ago President Obama gave a speech where he announced his intention to cut the deficit in half. But Congress has passed over $1.2 trillion dollars of spending in a mere 21 legislative days so far this year. At the rate Congress is spending money, cutting the deficit in half is pure fantasy. And adding insult-to-injury, this high level of spending will trigger tax hikes on millions of American small businesses and families. President Obama had it right today when he said everyone will have to 'compromise' - but under his plan no one will have to compromise more than American families and small-business owners. This is not the change America needs."###
02.24.2009	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) made the following statement after President Obama delivered his address before a joint session of Congress."Tonight was truly an historic moment for our country. I appreciate that the President took time to address the growing financial and economic situations that are facing our country. There is no band-aid that can fix the problems that are gripping our country. And while our situation merits a serious tone, I am confident that American innovation and strength will lead us on the road to recovery. But first, responsible steps must be taken to get our country's economy back on track - and those steps are within our reach.""Republicans agree with the President that we must work together to get things done. Pushing past partisanship is going to mean taking time to work towards solutions that can create jobs, bolster the economy and create a better future for our children. In short, overcoming the challenges facing our country is going to take more than just lip-service. It is going to take sweat equity.""Now is the time to get serious about fiscal responsibility. We cannot tax and spend our way into recovery and prosperity. In fact, raising taxes during a period of recession is a recipe for disaster. And unfortunately, the President has already made it known that he intends to let the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts expire next year. Letting those cuts phase out, while raising other taxes and pouring more money into expensive government programs is antithetical to the ideals of fiscal responsibility.""The President has also made it known that he wants to cut the federal deficit in half. And while the goal in itself is noble, it stands in stark contrast when compared to the outrageous spending habits of the Democratic Congress. Growing the deficit to historic highs around $1.4 trillion - through stimulus plans and omnibus bills - and then cutting it 'in half' is not the balanced budget approach our country needs. In fact, if President Obama succeeds, we'll still be left with a deficit larger than any recorded during the Bush years - the highest of which was $455 billion dollars in 2008. We have to seriously alter our spending habits and work on balancing our budget as we move forward.""I had hoped to hear more from the President about our military servicemen and women. It should never be far from our minds that we are currently engaged in conflicts overseas. Our troops are diligently fighting the war on terror in Iraq and Afghanistan and they deserve the full extent of our support. This is not the time to cut critical military funding. In the coming days, the President will be releasing his annual budget proposal. I hope the budget contains the necessary funding to protect our troops and help them move forward towards victory.""Our country is resilient. Our people are innovative and strong. Even though we are facing serious economic and financial challenges, I believe they can be overcome. I look forward to continuing to work with President Obama and my fellow members of Congress to adopt fiscally responsible policies that will restore our nation to economic well being."###
02.13.2009	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) issued the following statement after voting against the final Pelosi-Reid stimulus that passed today. "This bill is a recipe for disaster," Congressman Cole said. "To paraphrase Winston Churchill, never have so few spent so much so quickly to do so little. This bill checks in at a staggering $789 billion. To put that in perspective - that is nearly the total amount of all United States currency currently circulating worldwide. But it's not just the price tag of this bill that should offend every American - it also creates 30 new federal programs and agencies, growing the government to the largest size ever.""To make matters worse, this bill breaks a commitment to the American people to provide the text of the legislation to the public at least 48 hours before a vote. The bill is more than 1,000 pages long - making it impossible for the public to have ample time to review and scrutinize it. It is shameful to see Members of the Majority party in Congress so blatantly break their word to the American people.""This bill should have put more money in the hands of those who pay taxes, create jobs and invest in our economy. Instead, we're giving billions to those who will grow government and raise taxes. This is not the stimulus plan that Oklahomans deserve."###
02.12.2009	Vows to Fight Detainee Relocation to Fort Sill and other Communities in the United StatesWASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) introduced legislation today to prohibit use of the Department of Defense's (DOD) funds to transfer enemy combatants from Guantanamo Bay to the United States. It also prohibits using DOD's funds to build or repair holding facilities in the U.S. that would be used to house detainees. Cole's bill is H.R. 1012, the "Guantanamo Bay Detention Facility Safe Closure Act of 2009.""Our country is engaged in an active war against terror," Congressman Cole said. "Closing the facility that houses many known terrorists is irresponsible and potentially dangerous. I cannot support a plan to close a facility that has safely held high security risk detainees in favor of a PR-move that may put Americans in the path of danger. The complex at Guantanamo Bay has housed terrorists who planned the American Embassy attacks in Yemen as well as Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the mastermind of the 9/11 attacks. These are dangerous terrorists that do not belong anywhere near American communities."On January 22, 2009 President Obama announced his intention to close the Guantanamo Bay Detention Center in Cuba. According to a report issued by the House Armed Services Committee in 2007, the following American facilities were listed as potential relocation points for the individuals held at Guantanamo Bay: Fort Leavenworth, Kansas; Fort Knox, Kentucky; Fort Sill, Oklahoma; Fort Lewis, Washington; Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune, North Carolina; Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton, California; Marine Corps Air Station Miramar, California; NAVBRIG Norfolk, Virginia; WPNSTA Charleston, South Carolina; NAVSTA Pearl Harbor, Hawaii; SUBASE Bangor, Washington; NAS Jacksonville, Florida; NAS Pensacola, Florida; MCB Quantico, Virginia; Edwards Air Force Base, California; Kirtland Air Force Base, New Mexico; Lackland Air Force Base, Texas ###
02.12.2009	Joins More than 450,000 in Disapproval of Democrats' Stimulus PlanWASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) added his name to a petition recently, joining hundreds of thousands of Americans who are urging Congress not to pass the latest version of the stimulus bill. "The bill that is moving through Congress will not stimulate our economy or create jobs," Congressman Cole said. "The Pelosi - Reid stimulus legislation is short on tax relief, short on infrastructure investment and very heavy on liberal special interest projects that cost hundreds of billions of dollars. The path this legislation takes us down is dangerously unsustainable and gambles the very future of our country."The petition, a project of Americans For Prosperity (AFP), states: “Congress should not enact an expensive spending bill under the pretense of stimulus or recovery. We cannot spend our way to prosperity, and such an expansion of the federal government will put a crushing burden on taxpayers in the long-term.”It is available on AFP's "No Stimulus" web site at https://nostimulus.com. ###
02.11.2009	Cole will Visit Lone Grove and Surrounding Areas SoonWASHINGTON – Yesterday, severe storms and a large tornado touched Lone Grove, Wilson, Springer and other areas in the Fourth District of Oklahoma. Earlier today, at Congressman Cole's request, the House of Representatives observed a moment of silence in honor of the victims of this disaster. In addition, Cole will be visiting the affected areas this coming Saturday."This is a sad day in Oklahoma," Congressman Cole said. "Many communities in the Fourth District and across the state are hurting today after a series of severe storms and tornados touched down last night. I am tremendously grateful for the local, state and federal officials who worked through the night last night and into today to help their fellow Oklahomans. I appreciate their rapid response and professionalism as well as the efforts of every Oklahoman who has sheltered a neighbor and lent a hand during this trying time.""I will be visiting the areas in Southern Oklahoma that took the brunt of this storm this Saturday. I have been and will continue to be in contact with the Governor and other officials as they respond and make decisions. I will be working with them in the coming week to help ensure the federal assistance process goes forward in a way that truly benefits those who suffered at the hands of this storm."###
01.28.2009	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) issued the following statement today after voting against the $825 billion dollar stimulus bill, H.R. 1."We are facing a global recession and a federal response is needed," Congressman Cole said. "But this bill busts the federal budget while doing next-to-nothing to truly stimulate our economy. Congress just spent 300 percent more on this legislation than was spent in all of World War II, and a staggering 1200 percent more than was spent during the New Deal. And while the stimulus bill will create some government jobs, it does so at an outrageous expense to the taxpayer. In fact, job-creating tax measures for small businesses have virtually been eliminated from this stimulus bill." "This legislation did have some reasonable provisions - such as tax cuts and important infrastructure spending. But they made up a comparatively small percentage of the overall bill. The vast majority of the discretionary spending is aimed at government programs that will not stimulate economic growth and will ultimately create greater deficits and / or higher taxes."The economic stimulus bill, H.R. 1 passed the House of Representatives today by 244 - 188.###
01.27.2009	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) announced today the names of students who have been nominated from the Fourth Congressional District for entry into one of America's prestigious military academies. The schools to which these students have been nominated may include the Air Force, Merchant Marine, Military and Naval academies. Each year members of Congress are given the opportunity to nominate a certain number of students from their district to these prestigious institutions. The students nominated may be eligible to enroll in the fall of 2009. The process to receive an academy nomination is highly competitive and based on criteria such as: SAT/ACT scores, G.P.A., extracurricular activities and class rank, among other things. "I am proud that so many students from Oklahoma's Fourth District are interested in attending a military academy," Congressman Cole said. "Each of these individuals has an impressive academic history and a demonstrated record of leadership. I believe these students have the capacity to work hard and live up to the high standards of our nation's military academies. I am pleased to nominate them."The list below includes the names, hometowns and high school information of the students as well as the academies to which they were nominated. At this time the students' applications are being considered by the academies' selection committees for potential admission. Many of the students received nominations to multiple academies.Aisling V. Henschel, Goldsby, Washington High School - Air ForceBamboo W. Hewitt, Norman, Wentworth Military Academy - Air ForceChristian D. Hinson, Duncan, Duncan High School - Air Force, Naval, Merchant Marine, MilitaryDavid M. Ross, Norman, Kaiserslauten High School - Air ForceDonald "Wes" Weaver, Ardmore, Oklahoma School of Science and Math - Air Force, NavalJacob R. West, Stonewall, Ada High School - Air Force, Merchant Marine, MilitaryJohn G. Heller, Blanchard, Oklahoma School of Science and Math - Air Force, Naval, MilitaryJonathon D. Frank, Ardmore, St. John's Military School - Naval, MilitaryKenan C. Bell, Norman, Norman North High School - Air ForceKiernan P. Beresford, Norman, Norman North High School - NavalLindsey R. Rutledge, Lawton, Lawton Christian School - Air Force, NavalMatthew L. Wright, Fittstown, Ada High School - Air Force, NavalMichael H. Reed, Ardmore, Ardmore High School - Air Force, Naval, Merchant Marine, MilitaryNadine N. Harrison, Fletcher, Oklahoma School of Science and Math - Naval, Merchant MarineRebecca M. Bailey, Norman, Oklahoma School of Science and Math - Naval, Merchant MarineTanner C. Faulkner, Newalla, McLoud High School - Air Force, Naval, Merchant Mar., MilitaryTaylor S. Scherler, Walters, Walters High School - Air Force, Merchant Marine, MilitaryZachery S. Stearman, Mustang, Southwest Covenant - Air Force ###
01.23.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), a Senior Member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Rep. Dan Boren (D-Okla.), a Member of the House Armed Services Committee, Rep. Mary Fallin (R-Okla.), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, Rep. Tom Cole (R-Okla.), and Rep John Sullivan (R-Okla.) joined together today in a united front to express outrage at President Obama’s decision to shut down Guantanamo Bay, possibly leading to terrorists coming to Oklahoma. Senator Inhofe: “President Obama’s decision to shut down Guantanamo Bay could have a devastating impact on our national security and is simply unacceptable. Through my position on the Senate Armed Services Committee, I will lead the fight in the Senate to prevent these terrorists from coming to my state or any state on American soil. My constituents in Oklahoma deserve to feel safe, and we will not feel safe with some of the most dangerous terrorists in the world - men who would kill thousands for an extremist ideology - on our soil. I will fight this decision, and Oklahomans will not be subject to this type of insecurity. I will work hand and hand with the rest of the Oklahoma delegation, and the other 93 Members of the Senate who in 2007 resolved that detainees housed at Guantanamo should not be released into American society, nor should they be transferred stateside into facilities in American communities and neighborhoods.”Congressman Boren: “I am adamantly opposed to the movement of Guantanamo detainees to any location in Oklahoma. It is absolutely unacceptable to even consider relocating these terrorists to American soil, let alone Oklahoma. With three Members of the Delegation sitting on the Armed Services Committees in both houses of Congress, we will be working diligently to stop any plan that includes relocating detainees to any military facility in Oklahoma.”Congressman Cole: "I will oppose any efforts to transfer Guantanamo Bay detainees into our state and other American communities. Moving dangerous terrorists closer to home threatens the safety of our citizens and undermines the security of our military posts. Many of these detainees have committed dangerous acts against Americans and it gravely concerns me that others are considering transporting them into our country. I believe the President made a mistake by announcing the closure of Guantanamo Bay before providing a plan that details what will be done with the detainees."Congresswoman Fallin: “Oklahomans had a very personal and tragic confrontation with terrorism in 1995 that killed 168 of our friends and neighbors and we frankly do not want our soil polluted by these terrorists. I question the decision of the new administration in announcing the closing of Guantanamo Bay without a viable plan in place, and I will do all I can to make sure that if President Obama persists in this policy that none of the terrorists will be housed in our state, even for one night.”Congressman Sullivan: “The listing of Ft. Sill, Oklahoma as a potential relocation facility for al-Qaeda terrorists is completely unacceptable and represents a direct threat to the safety and security of Oklahoma and our nation. I have long been skeptical about President Obama’s calls to close our terrorist detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba and I will do everything in my power to keep these terrorists who have killed American’s out of our communities-period. Since the tragic attacks of September 11, 2001, our nation has been focused on keeping the American people safe by taking the fight to the terrorists so we don’t have to face them here on our soil –relocating those who mean us harm to American cities is a huge step backwards in the war on terror and a danger to our homeland.” Congressman Lucas: “I am disappointed by President Obama's decision to close the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay. His poor choice has made this country less safe for each and every Oklahoman. I will work closely with the other members of our delegation to ensure that we don't expose our country to another tragedy like September 11th.” ###
01.19.2009	Cole Praises Decision on Border Patrol AgentsSays Commutations Fall Short of Full JusticeWASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) gave the following statement after receiving word that President Bush commuted the sentences of border patrol agents Jose Compean and Ignacio Ramos. In October 2006, Ramos and Compean were each sentenced to more than a decade in prison after shooting an illegal immigrant who was believed to have been armed while transporting hundreds of pounds of marijuana into the country. "I appreciate the decision by the President to commute the sentences of Jose Compean and Ignacio Ramos. The sentences they received were excessive and harsh. But I wish the President would have issued a full pardon and completely cleared the names of these two American patriots. These men were simply doing their job - so the guilty verdict they received was, in my opinion, unjust. Justice would have been more fully served with both a commutation of the sentence as well as a full pardon."In December, Cole sent a letter to the President asking him to pardon the men and commute their sentences before leaving the White House.###
01.12.2009	WASHINGTON – Earlier today Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) received word that he will serve on three House Appropriations subcommittees. Specifically, he will serve on Interior and Environment, Labor/Health & Human Services (HHS)/Education and Legislative Branch Subcommittees."I am pleased to have the opportunity to serve on these subcommittees," Congressman Cole said. "While serving on the Appropriations Committee will allow me to add an Oklahoma voice to all matters the committee deals with, I'll be able to invest extra time on subcommittee issues.""There is definitely important work to be done in each of these areas. There are tough decisions that have to be made to make sure our nation's spending is more focused, direct and accountable to taxpayers. After all, I believe what most Oklahomans believe - the federal government is too big and spends too much money."The Interior and Environment subcommittee has jurisdiction over the Department of the Interior, the Environmental Protection Agency and other agencies. Labor/HHS/Education has jurisdiction over those three federal departments as well as related agencies such as the Social Security Administration. The Legislative Branch committee deals with issues related to the House of Representatives and other legislative services.Cole is the sole Member of Congress from Oklahoma to have a seat on the Appropriations Committee. This committee has jurisdiction over spending measures such as the annual appropriations bills which fund all federal government agencies. There are 12 total subcommittees. ###
01.08.2009	WASHINGTON – The House Republican Steering Committee today appointed Oklahoma Congressman Tom Cole to a coveted seat on the House Appropriations Committee. He becomes the only Member of Congress from Oklahoma to sit on the powerful committee.The Appropriations Committee has jurisdiction over spending measures such as the annual appropriations bills which fund all federal government agencies. In addition, there are 12 subcommittees, each with jurisdiction over an annual appropriations bill. At this time Congressman Cole has not received his subcommittee assignment, but should receive it in the near future. "I am very pleased to have been appointed to serve on the House Appropriations Committee," Congressman Cole said. "This has been a goal of mine since I arrived in Congress. For the last two years Oklahoma has not had an appropriator from either party in the House or the Senate so this is an important development for our state.""Like most Oklahomans, I believe that the government is too big and spends too much. I look forward to serving on the committee that can help rein in wasteful spending and bring more transparency to the process. Now, more than ever, the American taxpayers need leaders who will be responsible stewards of their tax dollars by holding a firm line on government spending."###
01.07.2009	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) issued the following statement yesterday after Oklahoma's Fifth District Representative, Congresswoman Mary Fallin, accepted an appointment to the House Armed Services Committee."I want to congratulate Congresswoman Mary Fallin on her appointment to the Armed Services Committee. Having served six years on the Committee myself, I am very pleased to see that Oklahoma will continue to be served by strong bipartisan representation on this important committee. I am confident that Congressman Boren and Congresswoman Fallin will well-represent the military interests of our state.""Congresswoman Fallin has been an outspoken defender of the military. During both her tenure in Congress and throughout her statewide service as lieutenant governor, she has diligently fought for the needs of our Armed Forces. I look forward to supporting her efforts on military spending through my position on the House Appropriations Committee."###
01.05.2009	Friendly Wager for the National ChampionshipOklahoma Sooners' Rep. Cole and Florida Gators' Rep. Putnam Talk TermsWASHINGTON – There will be more at stake than pride and a national championship when the University of Oklahoma and the University of Florida meet in the BCS National Championship football game January 8, it’s a matter of chocolate and oranges. U.S. Congressmen Tom Cole (R-Okla.) and Adam Putnam (R-Fla.) have a friendly wager riding on the outcome of the matchup involving their two alma maters.Cole has bet Bedre Chocolates, made in the Fourth District by the Chickasaw Nation, against fresh Florida oranges from groves in Polk County, Fla. Polk County, which is in the heart of Putnam’s district, is the largest citrus producing county in Florida."The last time OU played a team in Florida for the National Championship it worked out pretty well for us," Cole said. "The Sooners are going to have another fresh-picked win and I'm going to have a basket of oranges to enjoy because of it." “I’m looking forward to tasting those delicious chocolates as I savor the ‘Gators victory over the Sooners,” said Putnam. “It should be the perfect way to start 2009.” ###
12.30.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) recently returned from a congressional delegation trip to Iraq, Afghanistan and Germany. Cole observed the ongoing operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, discussed regional, political, and security issues with military officials and foreign leaders and visited with troops."Spending time over the holidays with members of our Armed Forces was a wonderful experience," Congressman Cole said. "I was pleased to share a meal and have conversations with a group of Oklahomans I met in Iraq. By serving our country overseas, these men and women have sacrificed time with their own families. Now is the time of year that we should all be especially thankful for their service.""The trip also served as a time for me to meet with foreign leaders and discuss the progress being made in Iraq. Many of our nation's top officials stationed in Iraq are upbeat about the current situation and looking forward to 2009 - a year that will bring a wave of provincial, local and national elections to the country. While progress is still fragile and reversible in Iraq, violence is down, and over 600,000 Iraqi security officers have stepped up to help fight. These are promising signs.""In Afghanistan I was able to meet with President Karzai and U.S. Ambassador William Wood. The situation is more difficult in this country because Al Qaeda terrorists find safe haven in the northern provinces of nearby Pakistan. Afghanistan also lacks infrastructure, tribal rivalries are deeper and there has been a sustained war going on since the 1970's. Our troops are encouraging Afghanis to take action - to join local security forces and stand up against terrorists who use the country as a thoroughfare. But there is still much to be done. Our nation's focus is shifting to Afghanistan and in the coming year I think we'll see major policy changes to reinforce our security presence there."The congressional delegation included Representatives' Anthony Weiner, Steve Israel, and Ed Whitfield. They were also joined by New York Governor David Paterson. In addition to their time in Iraq and Afghanistan, the congressional delegation was able to visit wounded troops at Landsthul Regional Medical Center in Germany.###
12.10.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) gave the following statement after Oklahoma's Third District Congressman, Frank Lucas, was appointed to the position of Ranking Republican Member of the House Agriculture Committee. Lucas will assume his new responsibilities in January at the start of the 111th Congress."The elevation of Frank Lucas to the position of Ranking Member of the House Committee on Agriculture is not only great news for Oklahoma's farmers and ranchers, it is great news for agricultural producers throughout America. Congressman Lucas has long been a mentor to many members of Congress on these issues and his knowledge and expertise are going to greatly benefit the House Agriculture Committee. Congressman Lucas is known as one of the most thoughtful and hard working members of Congress, and one of his greatest attributes that will guide his leadership at the Committee, is that he is a rancher in practice and at heart. Having a genuine Oklahoma Cattleman as the Ranking Member of this important committee means America's farmers and ranchers will have a knowledgeable and passionate advocate at the highest levels of agricultural policy making."###
12.10.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) sent a letter to President Bush late yesterday asking him to commute the sentences and issue pardons for Border Patrol agents Jose Compean and Ignacio Ramos. In October 2006, Ramos and Compean were each sentenced to more than a decade in prison after shooting an illegal immigrant who was believed to have been armed while transporting hundreds of pounds of marijuana into the country."The justice system has failed border agents Jose Compean and Ignacio Ramos," Congressman Tom Cole said. "When a narcotics-smuggling criminal, who has illegally crossed our borders on multiple occasions, receives more just treatment in our judicial system than officers of the law - a gross injustice has occurred. Officers Compean and Ramos were rightfully carrying out their duties to protect our nation from a drug smuggler illegally attempting to enter the United States. They should be commended for their actions, not put in jail." "While these border agents may have violated certain rules of procedure, I believe they have received excessive and unwarranted sentences. After all, these men were respected members of their communities, with unblemished records, who were acting to protect our borders from those wish our country harm. The harsh and excessive sentence they received was uncalled for - these men deserve a full pardon."###
10.03.2008	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement today after the House of Representatives voted on H.R. 1424, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act."Lyndon Johnson used to say, 'doing the right thing isn't hard, knowing the right thing to do is.' Over the past few weeks I have questioned whether passing this bill is the right thing to do. But I believe that without immediate action the stock market will take a nose dive, credit will freeze up and economic activity will grind to a halt. I am not willing to gamble the jobs, life savings, retirement accounts, the homes and the businesses of the people I represent. We cannot risk the global, political and social turmoil that will surely occur if there is a severe and prolonged recession or depression in the United States.Oklahoma has had more than its share of economic hardship over the years. My grandparents and parents lived through the Great Depression. They dealt with the hard times at home and the wars abroad that it spawned. My family and I lived through the 1980s when a banking and real estate collapse devastated Oklahoma's economy. I saw my state's per capita income fall from 98% to 79% of the national average. I saw hundreds of banks close, thousands of businesses fail and countless families lose their life's savings. I do not intend to let that happen again for the sake of political popularity, ideological purity or legislative perfection.Passing this bill is no substitute for long term structural reforms, appropriate legislative oversight and the establishment of suitable levels of accountability and transparency in our financial markets. Those are issues we must confront in the next Congress. However, I believe that inaction in the face of the current turmoil in the markets is not an acceptable option. In fact, it is a huge gamble.This was a very difficult vote, one that I will have to stand up and defend for the rest of my political life. And I know, having made this vote, I will have to make other tough votes to reform our economic and political systems. I am willing to take those tough votes. But I will also make sure that I let my constituents know exactly why I voted the way that I did. And I will continue to make myself available to listen to their concerns and answer their questions as we go forward and deal with the future of our economy. At the end of the day, I believe that taking a tough vote is easier than seeing more jobs lost, homes foreclosed, savings depleted, businesses broken, lives devastated, and a more dangerous world emerge as the consequences of our failure to act."###
09.18.2008	WASHINGTON – Last night Congressman Tom Cole's (OK-04) bill recognizing Toby Keith's commitment to members of the Armed Forces, H.Res.1255, passed in the House."Toby Keith is a homegrown hero who never fails to show his appreciation for our men and women in uniform," Congressman Cole said. "He's a true patriot and selfless in his support of our Armed Forces. And while Toby is not alone in using his talent to entertain our service members - he is certainly a leading, modern example of a musician going above and beyond to boost the morale of the military.""Over the years Toby Keith has entertained hundreds of thousands of service members on USO tours overseas and at home. He has even taken trips to dangerous parts of our world and put his life at risk. His honorable actions and stalwart support of our troops throughout his career deserve our appreciation and support."Cole introduced the resolution in June to honor country music star Toby Keith for his support of the Armed Forces. Keith has shown his dedication to our service members by volunteering to perform on six United Service Organizations (USO) tours overseas. Keith has participated in USO tours to Belgium, Kosovo, Italy, Germany and Afghanistan, among other places. The USO was established in 1941. Since it was founded, thousands of celebrities and musicians have gone on tour with the USO to bring entertainment to members of the Armed Forces in America and overseas. The purpose of the USO according to its web site is to "support the troops by providing morale, welfare and recreation-type services to our men and women in uniform." ###
09.09.2008	WASHINGTON - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) gave the following statement today after Speaker Pelosi and other Democrat leaders concluded a "no energy" press conference."All throughout the month of August members of the Republican Party were here in Washington calling for the Speaker to halt her vacation and come back for a vote on real American energy," Congressman Cole said. "Now it is five weeks later and the Speaker has announced an 'energy' plan that lacks one key element - tangible sources of American energy. The public has made it abundantly clear that they want a plan that will open up more of our domestic energy sources. Unfortunately, the Speaker has failed to deliver that.""We need to pass legislation with a backbone like the American Energy Act. This is not the time to be in talks with liberal environmental groups looking to trap Congress into another ban on accessing our nation's offshore energy resources. The Speaker is simply out of touch with the American public."###
08.29.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) praised today's announcement made by Senator John McCain to choose Governor Sarah Palin as his running mate."Choosing Governor Palin as the Republican vice presidential running mate is a truly historic decision," Congressman Cole said. "This was a smart and savvy choice that proves John McCain is willing and able to think outside the box. Sarah Palin is a maverick reformer - just like Senator McCain - and I am proud and excited to support her addition to the Republican presidential ticket. ""Her list of credentials is impressive. She will bring her strong record of support for America's families, her expertise on energy issues and her refreshing style of leadership to the White House. As Mayor she shook things up in Wasilla, as Governor she shook things up in Alaska, and together with John McCain, she stands ready to shake things up in Washington DC."###
08.08.2008	WASHINGTON - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) gave the following statement today after the conclusion of his 2008 Energy Summit. At the event, Oklahoma's energy leaders offered their insight about our nation's energy outlook and the future of gas and energy prices. They also spoke about their respective industries and their changing role in helping the country overcome the energy crunch."Americans have suffered from the disturbingly high costs of gasoline and other sources of energy for too long," Congressman Cole said. "But, clearly there is not a single, quick-fix solution that will help Americans see a measurable difference in their transportation and home-energy expenses. That's why I believe it is important for the public to hear more about alternative forms of energy and ways to better utilize our existing domestic resources. I'm proud that the energy summit was able to serve as an opportunity for many interested individuals to learn more about Oklahoma's fuel and energy landscape.""History reminds us that Oklahoma does have a unique status as an energy-producing state. But even with our rich natural resources, most of our citizens are still feeling the pinch of the high cost of gas. But with innovators in our state on the job working to create new ways to help Oklahomans get the most out of a gallon of gas and developing alternatives - our state is on the right track to help our nation reduce its reliance on foreign oil from overseas dictators.""No institution should stand in the way of our nation's future of energy security - especially not Congress. That's why I have every intention to continue to pressure Speaker Pelosi and members of House leadership to lift the ban on drilling and allow legislation like the American Energy Act to come to the House floor for a vote."Cole hosted the 2008 Energy Summit today at the National Weather Center. Speakers at the event included the following: Corporation Commissioner - Jeff Cloud, President of Bergey Windpower - Mike Bergey, Senior Vice President of Chesapeake Energy Corporation - Tom Price, General Counsel at the Noble Foundation - Steve Rhines and CEO of Devon Energy - Larry Nichols.###
08.06.2008	WASHINGTON - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) will be hosting an energy summit Friday at the National Weather Center in Norman. During the summit, Oklahoma's energy leaders will offer their perspective on the current gasoline and energy crunch and discuss their role or their company's role in the state's future of energy security. All members of the media are invited to attend.The event will be attended by dozens of community leaders from across the Fourth District. The following topics will be discussed by major industry representatives: nuclear energy, wind energy, natural gas, switchgrass, and oil, among other things. In addition, Cole will be available to speak individually with members of the media from 8:30 - 9:00 a.m. at the National Weather Center prior to the summit.Who: Congressman Tom Cole, various Oklahoma energy leaders and industry insiders, as well as Community leaders from across the Fourth DistrictWhat: 2008 Energy Summit When: Friday, August 8th9:00 - 11:00 AMWhere: National Weather CenterUniversity of Oklahoma120 David L. Boren BlvdNWC Suite 1100Norman, OK 73072###
07.15.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) offered the following comments after receiving word that the Department of Veterans Affairs has chosen Comanche County to receive a new Vet Center with counseling services."Oklahoma's service members have served this nation proudly and carried a great debt for our country," Congressman Cole said. "That's why they deserve every advantage and opportunity to successfully readjust when they come home to us. This decision is going to be even more important as more and more military service members and their families relocate to Comanche County.""I believe this facility provides a great service by helping veterans' who have recently returned from combat. Those service members and their families will have access to the first-rate facility and be able to connect with professional counselors trained to help them with their readjustment. I'm very pleased that Comanche County was chosen to receive this new Vet Center."The Department of Veterans Affairs will be establishing 39 new Veterans' Centers throughout the nation. The Vet Center in Comanche County will be operational by the end of 2009. The particular city where the service center will be located in Comanche County has not been announced at this time.###
07.14.2008	WASHINGTON - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) gave the following statement today after President Bush announced his intentions to lift the executive ban on offshore oil drilling."Seeing the President announce his intentions to lift the executive order that banned offshore drilling is a shameful reminder that Congress has not lifted its own legislative ban," Congressman Cole said. "Congress' outdated ban was put in place at a time when our economy was looking up and gas prices were low. But, today we have different circumstances and an uncertain energy outlook. We need to act now by lifting the legislative ban, a move that will unlock oil and natural gas reserves, create good-paying American-energy jobs and put us on a path towards a more secure energy future.""Congress has stood in the way of accessing these resources for far too long. It's time for common-sense to prevail and for Congress to come together to listen to the majority of Americans who support off-shore drilling. By repealing the ban we can start tapping into our domestic resources in a responsible way. We have the technology and conservation policies in place that will allow responsible drilling without harming our environment. The President said it best - 'the time for action is now.'" ###
07.10.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) recently bid farewell to summer intern D.H. Dilbeck. Dilbeck was chosen to participate in the summer internship program in Cole's Washington, DC office."Our summer internship program provides a great opportunity for students like D.H. to experience Washington, DC and see the inner-workings of our government firsthand," Congressman Cole said. "The job of an intern isn't always glamorous, but D.H. met every objective he was assigned. I appreciate his hard work and positive attitude. He was an asset to our office and will certainly be missed." Cole's summer internship program accepts applications from students interested in working in a Congressional office. While in Washington interns attend congressional hearings, give Capitol tours to constituents and aid legislative staff with projects. "My time on Capitol Hill was very informative," Dilbeck said. "Interning for Congressman Cole gave me a great deal of insight into the day-to-day operations of Congress. I'm returning to Oklahoma with a deeper understanding of the complex problems facing our nation and a new appreciation for those dedicated leaders who are willing to tackle our problems." Dilbeck is the son of Hance and Julie Dilbeck of Edmond, Oklahoma. He is a junior at Oklahoma Baptist University studying history and economics. Upon graduation, he intends to pursue a graduate degree in history. ###
07.10.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) recently bid farewell to summer intern Katherine Rainbolt. Rainbolt was chosen by Cole to participate in the internship program in Washington, DC.“The summer internship program is an excellent opportunity for students like Katherine to see the inner workings of our government up close,” Congressman Cole said. “Katherine’s enthusiasm and loyal work ethic made her a vital asset this summer. She made a positive impression on my staff and I know she'll be missed around our office.”Cole’s summer internship program allows college upperclassmen to work in a Congressional office, attend hearings, give Capitol tours to constituents, compile press clips and aid legislative staff with projects. “Working on Capitol Hill has deepened my understanding of our system of government and enhanced my pride in America and its institutions,” Rainbolt said. “It has greatly increased my desire to continue my involvement in our American future.” Rainbolt is the daughter of Dr. Leslie Rainbolt and Mr. Scott Forbes of Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. She will be a senior at Washington University in St. Louis and is majoring in art history with a minor in psychology. After graduation Rainbolt hopes to return to Washington, DC to work on a congressional staff and potentially attend Georgetown Law School. ###
07.08.2008	WASHINGTON - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) gave the following comments today after receiving the news that Former Congressman Clem McSpadden had passed away."Oklahoma lost a true cowboy today," Congressman Cole said. "Clem McSpadden epitomized the very best of Oklahoma throughout his life - he was enormously accomplished yet humble, dedicated to his work, his family, and his nation and deeply committed to the state of Oklahoma and her citizens.""He served our state and our nation in a variety of capacities, including the U.S. Navy in World War II, the Oklahoma State Senate and the U.S. Congress. Oklahoma has lost an icon. But more importantly, every Oklahoman has lost a friend."###
06.26.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) praised today's ruling by the U.S. Supreme Court to uphold a federal appeals court decision that the gun ban in Washington, DC is unconstitutional."For far too long, certain American citizens have had their right to keep and bear arms denied," Congressman Cole said. "The Second Amendment of the Constitution very clearly establishes the right of all law abiding Americans to own a firearm, yet this right has been denied to residents of our nation's capital for over 30 years. I applaud the Supreme Court for finally restoring this right. This is a true victory for freedom and one that underscores the significance of individual Constitutional rights.""The weight and importance of this ruling cannot be overstated. This not only restores the Second Amendment rights of the citizens of Washington, DC, it paves the way for the restoration of these rights to other citizens living under unconstitutional gun bans throughout the rest of the country."Earlier this year Congressman Cole was among 250 House Members and 55 Senators who signed an amicus brief defending the right of residents of the District of Columbia to own a handgun.###
06.25.2008	WASHINGTON – Today U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) congratulated Katherine Habeck, Fourth District winner of the 2008 Congressional Art Competition: An Artistic Discovery. Habeck, a student from Plainview High School in Ardmore, was in Washington, DC, today to attend the competition ribbon-cutting ceremony and reception."Every year I am proud to host a piece of artwork created by a student from the Fourth District," Congressman Cole said. "This year's contest winner, Katherine, created a work of art that will be showcased in Washington for the next calendar year. It's clear that Katherine worked very hard on this piece and she deserves to be honored for her artistic talents.""I'm also pleased that Katherine and her family were able to make the trip up to Washington to see her picture hung in the U.S. Capitol building. Katherine truly has a bright future ahead of her. I know she has made and will continue to make Oklahoma very proud."Habeck's picture, titled "Ornaments" was chosen by a panel of judges in Norman, Oklahoma. "Ornaments" will hang in the tunnel between the U.S. Capitol and the Cannon Office Building, a path regularly taken by tourists visiting the building as well as Members of Congress walking to the House Chamber for votes. Habeck and two of her guests were flown to Washington courtesy of Southwest Airlines. While in Washington, Habeck and her guests met with Representative Cole, attended the art competition ceremonies and toured the Capitol building. ###
06.20.2008	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) gave the following comments today after the House passed H.R. 6304, the FISA Amendments Act of 2008. This bill will modernize the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) and strengthen our country's terrorist surveillance laws."This is a long overdue victory for all Americans," Congressman Cole said. "After months and months of negotiating, we are finally passing legislation that will modernize our foreign intelligence laws. Republicans have pushed for these reforms for a long time now, but I certainly welcome to support and cooperation of the Democrats to get this done.""We live in a dangerous day and age where our enemies have access to dangerous technology that could be used against us. We need to utilize every tool at our disposal to make sure we know where they are and what they are planning. This legislation is a critical step in the right direction.""Although this bill is not perfect, it is a bipartisan compromise that meets our country's urgent need to monitor the communications of suspected foreign terrorists. Now our nation's intelligence officers will again be empowered to use their skills and abilities to guard the safety and security of our nation.""But before passing this bill we also wanted to make sure that Americans' individual liberties were protected. This bill achieves that. It is critical that we always uphold the constitutional rights of American citizens. Americans living within our borders and those living abroad can have confidence that this bill maintains their civil liberties.""Both U.S. Attorney General Michael Mukasey and Director of National Intelligence Mike McConnell wrote to Speaker Pelosi in support of this bill. In their letter they noted that 'this bill would also provide the necessary legal protections for those companies sued because they are believed to have helped the Government prevent terrorist attacks in the aftermath of September 11.' I am pleased that this bill protects those companies who patriotically stepped in to help the government detect potential terror attacks. They deserve to be commended, not condemned.""In short, this is an important bill that will provide greater protection for Americans, strengthen our intelligence officials, uphold civil liberties and protect American telecommunications companies that helped us after 9/11." ###
06.10.2008	WASHINGTON - Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) introduced a resolution today to honor country music star Toby Keith's commitment to the United States Armed Forces. Keith has demonstrated his commitment in a number of ways, most notably by performing on six United Service Organizations (USO) tours overseas."Toby has done so much to show his commitment and appreciation to our nation's Armed Forces," Congressman Cole said. "He has given his time and energy to put on performances for our troops overseas and at home. He has really gone out of his way to support our servicemen and women and their families.""I believe Toby deserves to be acknowledged for his work. He's shown a unique understanding of the dedication and difficult work the members of the Armed Forces do and he has made it his priority to bring joy and entertainment back to them. I am proud to bring forth this resolution commending Toby Keith for all that he has done to boost the morale of the military. He has made Oklahoma very proud." Oklahoma native Toby Keith has performed for over 135,000 members of the Armed Forces during USO tours to Cuba, Germany, Belgium, Kosovo, Italy, parts of Africa and other places overseas. Keith has volunteered to perform at dangerous and remote locations across the world. For example, on April 24, 2008, during a USO event, mortar fire disrupted Keith's concert in Kandahar, Afghanistan.The USO was established in 1941. Since it was founded, thousands of celebrities have volunteered with USO to entertain members of the Armed Forces in America and overseas. The purpose of the USO according to its web site is to "support the troops by providing morale, welfare and recreation-type services to our men and women in uniform."###
05.23.2008	WASHINGTON - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) introduced legislation yesterday to re-establish the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) as an independent agency. Cole's bill, H.R. 6147, is titled the "Federal Emergency Management Advancement Act of 2008" or the "FEMA Act.""It is high time that FEMA is given the authority to act as an independent agency once again," Congressman Cole said. "Placing FEMA under the Department of Homeland Security has only created more red-tape and bureaucracy for an agency that is charged with the responsibility of reacting immediately during an emergency. We need to restore FEMA's authority to act as quickly as possible when disaster strikes.""Oklahoma has suffered repeatedly at the hands of the FEMA bureaucracy since it was brought under the umbrella of the Department of Homeland Security. Whether it's been wildfires, floods, ice storms or tornados, the Homeland Security controlled FEMA has been slow to react and its officials have made some inexplicable decisions regarding aid to our communities and our neighbors.""Oklahoma has the fourth highest total number of disasters declared in the country, following the much larger states of Texas, California and Florida. I can no longer stand by in good conscience while FEMA bureaucrats in Washington ignore the very legitimate needs of Oklahoma. By restoring their independence we will also restore authority to those who direct FEMA on the ground and in the midst of the disasters. They see the damage and suffering first-hand. You just can't do that sitting behind a desk in Washington D.C."Cole's bill serves as a House companion to legislation introduced by Senator Inhofe. Both Cole and Inhofe have called for FEMA to be independent and removed out from under the jurisdiction of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS).According to the FEMA web site, Oklahoma has had three major disaster declarations and two fire management assistance declarations so far in 2008. In 2007, Oklahoma had seven major disaster declarations and two emergency declarations. Also, according to FEMA's online records, Oklahoma has had 57 disasters declared since 1955. That number places Oklahoma as number four in a ranking of states that have had the most disasters declared. Oklahoma is also the only non-coastal state to be in the top five.According to this legislation, FEMA will once again be an independent agency responsible for serving, protecting and preparing the country's recovery efforts regarding natural disasters, acts of terrorism and man-made disasters. The bill also calls for an independent FEMA to be headed by an agency director and deputy director. According to the bill, the director will be appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate and report to the President as his chief advisor on issues relating to emergency management in the United States. The modern equivalent of FEMA was established by an executive order issued by President Carter in 1979. For the next quarter century, FEMA acted as an independent agency of the United States government. After the September 11, 2001 attacks, Congress approved the Homeland Security Act of 2002. The Act established DHS, a department responsible for coordinating disaster recovery and preparation plans with different federal agencies as well as in charge of building up civil defense and border protection. FEMA was incorporated into DHS in 2003.###
05.22.2008	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) made the following comments yesterday after supporting passage of H.R. 5658, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The bill authorizes a portion of the budget for the Department of Defense and the Department of Energy's national security programs. It will also authorize $70 billion in supplemental funding to support the troops in Iraq and Afghanistan for the beginning months of Fiscal Year 2009."Once again members from both sides of the aisle were able to agree on the contents of a good bill that will give our nation's defenses a needed boost. This bill does that in one critical way by making sure our military families are supported and given priority. The legislation also authorizes spending for additional barracks, calls for funding for more military research and development, and sets aside additional resources for our men and women engaged on the front lines. These are priorities that I can definitely put my weight behind.""This bill isn't perfect, though - it has some obvious flaws. The cut in Future Combat System funding is particularly egregious. FCS is a new and cutting edge approach to develop future weapons systems that are linked up across a computer network. These weapons are more precise, have better targeting capability and provide enhanced protection for our servicemen. I am very displeased that amendments to correct the FCS funding gap were not given the appropriate consideration and I believe the effects of this oversight will be felt later on down the line. Rest assured that when the conference report for this legislation comes to the table, I will advocate for full funding for FCS before the bill is sent to the President.""But despite some of the legislation's disappointments, the overall bill does rise above partisanship and create a working defense agenda that will meet our nation's most pressing security needs. For that reason, I am pleased to support it. The Armed Services Committee members and staff have worked with a real spirit of bipartisanship - one that I hope will continue in the coming months. I am proud that this legislation will help secure our nation's defenses and give our dedicated members of the Armed Forces the resources they need."###
05.21.2008	WASHINGTON - Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) issued the following statement today after joining House Republicans to announce an energy agenda that will lower gas prices and expand America's energy base."We need an energy plan that packs a real punch and makes a visible difference in the price Americans are paying for gas and electricity. Oklahomans are paying a record $3.68 a gallon - a price that is expected to go up before Memorial Day weekend. This should be a time when Oklahoma's families take well-deserved vacations, but instead, the high cost of energy is putting a dent in their plans. There has been far too much talk and not enough action on tangible ways to reduce the cost of what American's are paying at the pump. The time for common sense energy policies is long overdue.""Nancy Pelosi and her liberal allies need to stop stonewalling legislation that will expand the use of American-made energy. We have the resources in this country that can alleviate the skyrocketing costs of fuel and we need to use them. Whether it's drilling in ANWR or off the coasts of Florida and California - these domestic energy sources should be tapped into in short order. We also need to fund and build new oil refineries to process our energy resources.""But opening up domestic energy sources for exploration is only one piece of the energy puzzle. We should also be promoting innovative and clean sources of energy like clean coal, nuclear energy and wind energy. In fact, France is leaps and bounds ahead of the U.S. for using advanced nuclear energy to power 80 percent of its electricity requirements. Nuclear energy has proven to be a safe and environmentally sound alternative and we should get with the times and look to it to meet more of our energy needs.""In short, the hallmark of an effective energy policy is that it draws from a broad base of resources. House Republicans have a plan that will expand domestic resources, minimize the impact on the environment, encourage reasonable use of renewable energy and maximize energy through technology and innovation. These common sense policies will have an immediate impact on energy supplies and prices. It's time for Nancy Pelosi to put the interests of American families first and allow our nation to develop and utilize the abundant natural resources we have right here at home."###
05.07.2008	WASHINGTON - Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) issued the following statement today after meeting with the President and other Republican colleagues to plan a positive legislative agenda to help the American people."I agree with the President's sentiment that enough is enough - it's time for the House leadership to stop stonewalling good legislation that can help our country. With home values in decline and gas prices skyrocketing, Speaker Pelosi and her allies need to stop obstructing progress and allow Congress to bring real relief to America's families and small businesses.""Our energy problems need to be addressed with legislation that has a backbone. We need a solution that will expand our nation's supply by opening up our domestic resources to drilling. The price of gasoline has reached an average of $3.46 in Oklahoma and $3.61 nationally. And as the price of fuel goes up, the American people's trust in the government goes down. It is shameful to let this continue when we have the resources to help alleviate the problem.""Speaker Pelosi and the leaders of her party also need to stop playing games with the supplemental legislation that will fund our troops. This needs to be put on the agenda immediately and passed before Memorial Day so that the men and women of our nation's Armed Forces have the resources necessary to carry out their mission.""My colleagues and I are prepared to work with Speaker Pelosi and the other members of her party to find solutions that will help restart America's economic engine and find responsible solutions to help people who are losing their homes. The American people are sick and tired of negative, partisan bickering and they have a right to expect their elected leaders to roll up our sleeves and put forth positive solutions to the challenges we face."###
04.25.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. - This week U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) received the "2008 Friend of the Wildcatter" award from the Oklahoma Independent Petroleum Association (OIPA) for his service to Oklahoma’s natural gas and oil industries. Cole was recognized for voting consistently in the 110th Congress to protect oil and natural gas industry jobs in Oklahoma and calling for more domestic exploration and production.“I'm honored to be recognized by Oklahoma's oil and gas industry,” said Congressman Tom Cole. “Our energy producers are working diligently to expand domestic production by utilizing state-of-the-art technologies and innovative research. I’m committed to supporting policies that expand our domestic production capacity - policies that will create jobs in Oklahoma and energy independence for America.” OIPA is the state's largest oil and gas advocacy group, representing more than 1,700 member companies in the crude oil and natural gas exploration/production industry. “Congressman Cole has been a loyal friend to the men and women working in Oklahoma’s oil and natural gas industry since voters first sent him to Congress,” said OIPA Chairman John Pilkington. “He understands the financial risks independent producers take each time they drill a well and their commitment to improving the communities in which they operate and live. Most importantly, the Congressman understands that increased domestic oil and natural gas production is key to efforts to make America more energy secure.”Cole serves on the House Natural Resources Committee, a position that allows him to weigh in on legislation that promotes domestic production of resources and call for reduced dependence on foreign oil imports. According to the Oklahoma Energy Resources Board, the total economic output of Oklahoma’s oil and natural gas industry is estimated to be more than $23 billion. Roughly 60,000 Oklahomans work directly in energy related jobs with the industry supporting indirectly an additional 186,000 jobs.###
04.22.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) joined other leaders of Republican leadership today in sending a letter to Speaker Pelosi urging her to reveal the "commonsense plan" to lower gas prices that she promised two years ago. The Daily Fuel Gauge Report from AAA reports that the current national average for gasoline is the highest it has ever been at $3.51 a gallon."Speaker Pelosi championed a 'commonsense plan' to reduce the cost of gasoline two years ago," Congressman Cole said. "Two years is too long to wait for that plan to be made public. It is time for House Democrats to unveil their long overdue agenda to address our energy crisis and lower gas prices.""House Republicans are willing to work with our colleagues from across the aisle to see that responsible solutions are formed to help the American public cope with crippling costs of energy and gasoline. We are asking Speaker Pelosi to reveal the details and costs of her plan and bring to light any proposed taxes on energy or gasoline that may be included in it. Americans were promised a solution to this crisis and they deserve to know what is being done to bring down skyrocketing gas prices."###
04.09.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) issued the following statement today after attending the second set of reports on progress in Iraq delivered by General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker."General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker once again delivered a frank and telling report to Congress and the American people. They were very deliberate and candid in their assessments of both our progress in Iraq as well as the challenges that remain.""The past 15 months have brought additional stability and security on the ground and the biggest challenges that remain are political in nature. I witnessed this myself when I visited Iraq last October as part of the first Congressional delegation to be allowed into the city of Ramadi without body armor. In Ramadi and other parts of the country, more police, soldiers and volunteers are signing up to help fight terror and stabilize the country." "Iraqi government officials have implemented a budget and are creating a legitimate acquisition process which has allowed provinces to successfully request and receive funding from Iraq's central government. In February, the government in Iraq passed a 49 billion dollar budget which allocated over 20 billion dollars for security and capital investment. This evidence shows the Iraqi government is taking some steps to ensure their own security and invest more of their own money in the process. There is no doubt, though, that during the next phases of this mission, Iraq must use more and more of its own financial resources to rebuild the country.""But the progress that General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker reported is also uneven and there are still considerable improvements to be made. The situation is still 'fragile' as General Petraeus put it. I continue to believe that we are making significant and important progress and that if America has the foresight and patience to see this job through to completion, we will have made the Middle East a safer and more secure region."###
03.19.2008	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) issued the following statement today, the fifth anniversary of the Iraq War. Cole, a member of the House Armed Services Committee has traveled to Iraq seven times since serving in Congress, most recently last October. "When I look back on the history of this conflict, I see an incredible story that has revealed the importance of this mission and the strength and diligence of our men and women in uniform. The mission that began over five years ago has brought a growing wave of freedom and democracy to a nation that was ruled by ruthless dictator Saddam Hussein. In the time that the U.S. has had a presence in Iraq, free elections have been held, a legislative body has been cultivated and civil authority figures have been trained. Those are all measures of success. The elimination of Saddam Hussein has made the region better and America safer. This could not have been accomplished without the sacrifice, skill and valor of America's men and women in uniform." "We owe a tremendous 'thank you' to our soldiers and their families who have sacrificed so much to make our nation a safe haven for today and tomorrow. Their dedication to this mission and their service at home and abroad has helped bring down a cruel and corrupt government. Our nation will never forget our soldier's work to protect and serve America.""While there is still work that needs to be done, there is evidence of clear progress being made on the ground. The level of overall violence has gone down considerably as General Petraeus' recommendations have been implemented throughout Iraq. In the coming weeks, General Petraeus will be giving another assessment to Congress. This update to America's leaders will set the pace for the next leg of the mission on the War on Terror in Iraq."###
03.14.2008	For Immediate Release March 14, 2008Cole Condemns Time Wasted on Flawed Partisan FISA AttemptFollowing Secret Intelligence Briefing, House Needs to Pass Bipartisan Senate Version WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) made the following comments today, joining many of his colleagues calling for Senate-passed FISA modernization reform legislation to be brought to the House floor for consideration and passage."Last night, Congress participated in a rare legislative activity that has only been used five times since 1825 and was last used in 1983. This closed session was an opportunity for all members to hear an assessment of our nation's intelligence capabilities and how access to important intelligence has changed since the Protect America Act expired 26 days ago. The briefing gave members a compelling argument for why our country needs modern intelligence and surveillance laws that best protect our citizens.""The Democrats' FISA proposal that was brought to the floor today is severely flawed. Their proposal requires the Attorney General and Director of National Intelligence to get approval from a special FISA court before the government can monitor communications between suspected foreign terrorists. In a post 9/11 world, it is critical for intelligence to be intercepted in real time so that our country can be informed of the intentions of those who wish us harm. The Democrats' FISA proposal is the pinnacle of partisanship since it is doomed to fail in the Senate and an alternative FISA bill has already been approved.""The House is remiss not to move forward with the original Senate-passed version of FISA that passed by 68 votes. Those members holding the Senate bill hostage must understand that their actions are severely hampering our nation's ability to monitor terrorists abroad. Our surveillance officials are in the dark because of their inaction. The Senate-passed bill needs to be brought up for a vote before the House as soon as possible. Everyday they wait is another day that America's foreign surveillance officers have a deaf ear to the goings-on of suspected terrorists."###
03.11.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) announced today that he will be holding four town hall meetings in the southwest and southeast parts of the district in late March. During these meetings, Representative Cole is available to talk with Fourth District constituents and answer their questions about federal legislation. Members of Cole's staff will also be available to assist residents with federal casework."I'd like to invite residents from Davis, Chickasha, Ardmore, Lawton and surrounding areas to come to a town hall meeting," Congressman Cole said. "It's important for me to represent the values and beliefs of Oklahomans and stay on top of the issues that are affecting our state. Please join me for a meeting and let me know what is on your mind." This series of town hall meetings will be held on March 25th and 26th, 2008. All Fourth District residents are invited to attend. Please contact Cole's office in Norman at (405) 329-6500 for more information about the town hall meetings.DavisTuesday, March 2512:00 pmDavis Chamber of Commerce100 East Main StreetDavis, OK 73030ArdmoreTuesday, March 255:30 pmArdmore Convention Center2401 N. Rockford RdArdmore, OK 73401ChickashaWednesday, March 2612:00 p.m.Canadian Valley Technology Center1401 Michigan Ave.Helen Ward Seminar Center, Room BChickasha, OK 73018LawtonWednesday, March 265:30 p.m.Great Plains Technology Center4500 W Lee BlvdWorley Center, Bldg 300, Room 301Lawton, OK 73505 ###
03.10.2008	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) announced today that local fire departments in need of federal funds can begin applying for special grants. The funds are available through the Department of Homeland Security's Federal Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program. The application period is open until April 4th."Investing in local fire departments is an investment in the safety and well-being of Oklahomans," Congressman Cole said. "Our firefighters do an amazing job - they are dedicated to their jobs and serve our state with distinction. I want to commend them for a job well done, particularly on their efforts stifling dozens of wildfires over the past few months. They have fought tirelessly and deserve our appreciation and thanks.""I support our Oklahoma firefighters and believe that they deserve the assistance they need as they do their job fighting to save homes and property. For that reason, I'd like to encourage them to apply for grants to help purchase equipment and other resources they need to keep our residents safe."Since 2001, the AFG program funds have been used by fire departments across the U.S. to purchase vehicles, equipment and other firefighting materials in an effort to improve emergency response capabilities and operations. Urban and rural fire departments as well as EMS organizations that are not affiliated with a hospital are eligible to apply for the grants.The application information can be accessed at www.firegrantsupport.com. If fire departments have questions regarding the grant application process they should contact the Fire Fighter's Grants Help Desk at 1-866-274-0960. Fire departments must submit their applications before the April 4th, 2008 deadline.###
03.06.2008	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) issued the following statement today after the release of the Democratic Majority's FY 2009 proposed federal budget. "Right now, Americans are working hard to move past their feelings of uncertainty about the economy," Congressman Cole said. "The last thing they need is to be handed a tax hike that has been touted as the 'single largest tax increase in American history.' This sweeping tax increase will affect hard working families and small business owners to the collective tune of $683 billion over the next five years. That averages out to a $1,833 increase for each of our country's 116 million taxpayers.""Also, the way the budget proposal is written, key tax incentives that were made law by President Bush in 2001 and 2003 would expire. Married taxpayers could see the marriage penalty return, taxpayers with children could lose 50 percent of their child tax credits, and the federal death tax could be reinstated. These tax provisions have helped keep the economy growing and it would be catastrophic to allow them to expire at this critical point in time.""Washington clearly has a spending problem. Throughout my time in Congress I have consistently voted for the lowest budget proposal, one that covers the needs of our country without recklessly spending a penny more. I will only support a budget that is fiscally responsible, moving our country towards a balanced federal budget without raising taxes on Americans."###
02.26.2008	Cole Invites 4th District Students to Enter Congressional Art ContestWASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) announced today that his office is accepting student artwork for the Annual Congressional Art Competition and National Exhibition, "An Artistic Discovery." High School students from the Fourth District of Oklahoma are welcome to contact Cole's Norman office to get more information. The winning piece of art will be on display for thousands of visitors to view in the Cannon Tunnel of the United States Capitol building in Washington, D.C. "This art competition is a great opportunity for students in the Fourth District to show off their artistic skills," Congressman Cole said. "I know we have a lot of talented young artists and I'd like to invite them all to submit an entry to my office. The winning art will be put on display for visitors from across the world to see on their way to visit the Capitol building. This is a great opportunity for any young artist." The winner will have their art work displayed in the Capitol for one year and receive roundtrip airfare to Washington, D.C. courtesy of Southwest Airlines. After arriving, the student will attend a workshop and meet with professional artists. Please call Cole's Norman Office for more details, guidelines and entry paperwork at 405-329-6500. After getting submission information from Cole's office, students from across the Fourth District are welcome to submit their artwork to one of the following offices before the April 30, 2008 deadline. Norman Office2420 Springer Dr. Suite. 120Norman, OK 73069Lawton Office711 SW D Ave, Suite 201Lawton, OK 73501Ada Office104 E. 12th StreetAda, OK 74820Ardmore Chamber410 W MainArdmore, OK 73401###
02.14.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) announced today that he withdrew his name from the Appropriations race shortly before the Steering Committee meeting. The Steering Committee met this afternoon to select a replacement on the House Appropriations Committee following the departure of Roger Wicker."Today I withdrew my candidacy for a seat on the Appropriations Committee," Congressman Cole said. "While I've made no secret of my desire to serve on this Committee, I consider myself a team player. The Minority Leader asked me to step aside while I focus on my duties as a member of Republican leadership. I believe this was the best decision at the appropriate time for the entire Conference.""Tom Cole has once again demonstrated he’s willing to let his own interests take a back seat to those of his Republican colleagues when it will help our team," said Republican Leader John Boehner. "This quality of selflessness is the mark of a true leader. I'm grateful for Tom’s willingness to make sacrifices for our Conference. I’m proud and honored to serve with him, and I've pledged to support him for an appropriations seat next January, when I expect we will mark the first month of a new Republican majority in the House.""The Minority Leader's commitment to support my bid for a seat on the Appropriations Committee in the 111th Congress made this an easy decision," Cole said. "I look forward to continuing my work on the Armed Services Committee and the Natural Resources Committee for the duration of the 110th Congress."###
02.12.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) announced today that he will be holding two town hall meetings in the metro area in mid-February. During the meeting Cole will talk with constituents, discuss federal legislation and hold a question and answer session."Town hall meetings are a great way for me to keep in touch with the people of Oklahoma and to better represent their priorities in Congress," Congressman Cole said. "They provide a great opportunity for folks to visit with me personally and let me know what's on their mind. I want to invite people from Norman, Midwest City and the rest of the Fourth District to come visit with me on the nineteenth of February."Congressman Cole will be holding the meetings during the lunch hour and after work to accommodate area citizen's schedules. Cole will also be spending time in both Norman and Midwest City before and after the meetings. Please contact Cole's office in Norman at (405) 329-6500 for more information about the town hall meetings.Tuesday, February 19th - 12:00 p.m.Norman Regional HospitalJimerson Auditorium901 N. Porter AvenueNorman, OKTuesday, February 19th - 5:30 p.m.Chamber of Commerce Building5905 Trosper RoadMidwest City, OK ###
02.04.2008	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement today after the President submitted his fiscal year 2009 budget proposal to Congress. "The President's budget serves as a useful starting point for a debate over our nation's fiscal priorities. I am pleased that his recommendations include securing our borders, strengthening our national security and addressing the country's economic uncertainties." "As a member of the Armed Services Committee, I fully support the President's proposed 7.5% increase over last year's defense budget. This additional funding will be used to help keep America safe by giving critical defense funding to America's troops engaged in complex conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. Our service members have worked tirelessly preventing the spread of terrorism and promoting the ideals of democracy worldwide. The President has rightly recognized them and made their needs a priority." "Unfortunately this budget carries the dubious distinction of being the first $3 trillion budget in our nation's history. I believe there are many areas where we can and should spend less money. As the process moves forward, I will be working with others to rein in the size and expense of the federal government."###
01.29.2008	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) gave the following statement today following the passage of H.R. 5140, the Economic Stimulus Package. The bill is designed to boost the economy, create jobs and give money back to America's taxpayers."Today the House of Representatives finally did what the American people have been demanding we do for well over a year - set aside our partisan differences and do what is right for the country. By giving taxpayers and small businesses broad based tax relief without creating wasteful government programs, we have established a sound foundation for economic recovery. Neither side got everything they wanted in this package which is usually the hallmark of a pretty good deal. I hope the U.S. Senate can take a page from our playbook and set aside partisanship for the sake of our nation's economic well being."The bill includes instructions to provide rebates ranging from $300 to $1,200 to America's 117 million families. The bill also calls for $150 billon dollars in tax relief to be given to small businesses. The Economic Stimulus Package passed in the House this afternoon by 385 to 35. ###
01.28.2008	WASHINGTON - Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) made the following statement about the President's State of the Union Address to the nation."The President took full advantage of his last State of the Union address to give the American people a candid assessment of our country's future. He laid out an impressive and important agenda for continued success over the next calendar year and paid special attention to the issues that are affecting Americans most. He highlighted many of our nation's most pressing issues such as a need for continued economic progress and the importance of continuing to fight and defeat the forces of terror around the world.""The President is clearly determined to sprint to the finish line of his Presidency. He recognizes that everyday that he is in office is another opportunity for him to do his part to mold a better America. It was evident during his speech that he has tried to focus his final address on this year's legislative agenda while propounding an optimistic vision for our country's future.""I believe, as the President does, that it is critical to acknowledge the work of our men and women serving in the military. I know that the President's words are being heard tonight by our troops serving in America and around the world. Their day-in, day-out service to our country allows the rest of us at home to enjoy the freedoms that have been fought for and defended throughout our history. I appreciate the President's words of support to our nation's brave service members and will to fully support our military as they are engaged in tough fights in Iraq and Afghanistan." "The President has rightly stressed the importance of building a healthy economy. I agree with his call for Congress to immediately pass a bipartisan economic growth package. Congress should also act to make the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts permanent so that Americans can see the results in their pocketbook. This will then let Americans spend as they see fit and give the economy an important boost.""The President also called for a permanent fix to the outdated Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) of 1978. We need to make sure our overseas intelligence officials are not forced to waste valuable time seeking court orders before being able to monitor the communications of suspected foreign terrorists overseas. I believe Congress needs to pass a permanent fix in short order before the Protect America Act expires and before we face a gap in our foreign surveillance.""Besides those issues, the President discussed the importance of implementing new education initiatives, creating moderate changes to housing and health care and appropriating more money to fight AIDS and malaria in developing nations. These are goals worthy of our great nation. To achieve these objectives Congress must reject the 'politics as usual' attitude and embrace true bipartisanship.""I agree with the President that this is an important year for our nation. I am proud that he has decided to push ahead with determination and optimism. Many of the initiatives he proposed, when enacted upon, will positively affect life for every American. If Congress works with the President, the coming year can be one of progress rather than partisanship. George Bush is willing to meet this Congress more than half way. It is up to Republicans and Democrats alike to respond in a sprit of bipartisan cooperation."###
01.24.2008	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) announced today the names of students who have been nominated from the Fourth Congressional District for entry into one of America's prestigious military academies. The schools who participate in the Congressional nomination program are the U.S. Air Force, Merchant Marine, Military Academy at West Point and the Naval Academy. These students have been recognized as outstanding candidates for entry into an academy in fall 2008. The academy nomination selection process is highly competitive. Congressman Cole and the academy recommendation panel evaluate candidates based on academic criteria such as: class rank, SAT/ACT scores and school records. Other criteria such as athletic activities, physical fitness, extracurricular activities and outside recommendations are also taken into consideration when evaluating the student's leadership potential. "Each year I have an opportunity to review outstanding candidates from the Fourth District and recommend them for an appointment to one of our nation's fine military academies," Congressman Cole said. "I am pleased to nominate a new class of students to our nation's academies. These students are truly top-tier candidates with a desire to serve our state and our country." Below is the list of students who received nominations as well as their hometowns, high school information and academies they received nominations into. Now each of the applicants is being considered by the respective academies for admission into the school's program. Some of the candidates have requested and received nominations for more than one academy.United States Air Force AcademyDavid T. Hoang, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma School of Science and MathMcAllister L. Vaughan, Lawton, Lawton High SchoolBamboo W. Hewitt, Norman, Asociacion Escuelas LincolnMatthew A. Brown, Midwest City, Midwest City High SchoolUnited States Military AcademyMcAllister L. Vaughan, Lawton, Lawton High SchoolDaniel E. Titterington, Oklahoma City, Westmoore High SchoolIgnacio A. Suarez, Lawton, Eisenhower High SchoolJames M. Phillips, Faxon, James I. O'Neill High SchoolMatthew A. Brown, Midwest City, Midwest City High SchoolGreg Porter, Tuttle, Bridge CreekAaron G. Mallory, Wynnewood, Moanalu High SchoolUnited States Merchant Marine AcademyMatthew A. Brown, Midwest City, Midwest City High SchoolGreg Porter, Tuttle, Bridge CreekUnited States Naval AcademyDavid T. Hoang, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma School of Science and MathMcAllister L. Vaughan, Lawton, Lawton High SchoolZoraya Hightower, Ada, Oklahoma School of Science and MathCody W. Crossland, Oklahoma City, Westmoore High SchoolMatthew A. Brown, Midwest City, Midwest City High SchoolGreg Porter, Tuttle, Bridge CreekAaron G. Mallory, Wynnewood, Moanalu High School###
12.27.2007	WASHINGTON - Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) announced today that the FY08 Omnibus Appropriations bill signed by the President yesterday included $250,000 for construction of a one-million gallon water storage tower in Ada, Okla."This funding is critical when you take into account how much Ada is growing," Congressman Cole said. "Having access to water is vital for any community to survive, but with the Chickasaw Nation's health facility coming soon and with other local businesses expanding, now is the time to plan for the future. Ada needs the reassurance that comes with having stored water on hand so that it can meet the needs of potential businesses looking to invest in the community. Once the city has the resources it needs to satisfy its water demands, Ada residents can look towards an even brighter future with more jobs available, greater economic growth and substantial area renovation."Cole has worked with the Ada Public Works Authority to secure funding for the water storage tower. The water will be used by a number of new development properties such as the Chickasaw Nation's 370,000 square-foot health facility that will be constructed in the area. In addition, the Ada Industrial Development Corporation and the Ada Jobs Foundation are working together to develop a 200-acre industrial site. The residential population of Ada will also grow as several new residential developments are slated to be built in the vicinity.This federal assistance, provided for in the FY08 Omnibus Appropriations Act was passed in the House and Senate late last week.###
12.27.2007	WASHINGTON - Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) announced today that the FY08 Omnibus Appropriations bill signed by the President yesterday included $350,000 to help the Ardmore Development Authority develop phase 2 of the Ardmore Community Resources Center."I am proud to again support the Ardmore Development Authority's efforts to build the Community Resources Center," Congressman Cole said. "I believe that it is critical that the at-risk and elderly populations of Ardmore are able to find all of the services available to them in one central location in the city. It serves Ardmore's best interests to have the Resource Center as an efficient one-stop outlet to the city's social services."Cole has worked with Ardmore city officials and the Ardmore Development Authority to see the vacant Colvert Dairy Building converted into the Resources Center. One major advantage of the building's location is that it is located within walking distance of other assistance buildings such as City Hall, the Carter County Sheriff's Office, the Salvation Army, and the Carter County Courthouse. The City of Ardmore has been given the opportunity to purchase the historic Colvert building at a reduced price.The Ardmore Community Resources Center will serve the community by partnering with existing organizations who offer social services. Specifically, a few of those organizations are: the YWCA, Communities in Schools, Workforce Oklahoma, the Department of Human Services, Good Shepherd Medical Clinic and the Sunshine Supported Employment Program. Those organizations are working to offer their respective services, which include domestic violence and child-abuse prevention education, mental and physical health counseling and treatment, as well as education and employment services, among other services, at the Ardmore Community Resources Center.The past few years Congressman Cole and U.S. Senator James Inhofe have worked to secure $220,000 in funding for the first phase of the Ardmore Community Resources Center. Next year's funding will work to assist the second phase of the Center's development plan. ###
12.26.2007	For Immediate Release December 26th, 2007 Cole Announces Oklahoma ProjectsWASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) announced today that last week's FY08 Omnibus Appropriations bill included funding for projects that will benefit central and southwest Oklahoma."Even though this year's funding legislation was passed at the last minute with less time for consideration and scrutiny than I would have liked, the 4th district of Oklahoma came out on top with funding for several projects that I am proud to announce," Congressman Cole said.Cole secured the following projects in the 2008 Omnibus Appropriations bill:• $624,000 for telehealth and electronic medical records initiatives to the Norman Regional Health System• $300,000 for wastewater and water quality protection to the city of Ardmore• $250,000 for construction of 1 million gallon water storage tower to the Ada Public Works Authority• $350,000 for a centrally located resource center for the Ardmore Development Authority• $250,000 to assist with the downtown development project in Lawton• $750,000 for biofuels refining at the University of Oklahoma• $375,000 for an aquifer study at the Arbuckle-Simpson Aquifer• $352,500 for a Forensic Justice Center and $235,000 for forensics equipment at East Central University• $351,000 for facilities and equipment for the city of Stonewall• $195,000 for a telemedicine demonstration at Integris Health• $1.3 million for a fire and movement range at Fort Sill###
12.26.2007	WASHINGTON - Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) announced today that last week's FY08 Omnibus Appropriations bill included funding for projects that will benefit central and southwest Oklahoma."Even though this year's funding legislation was passed at the last minute with less time for consideration and scrutiny than I would have liked, the 4th district of Oklahoma came out on top with funding for several projects that I am proud to announce," Congressman Cole said.Cole secured the following projects in the 2008 Omnibus Appropriations bill:$624,000 for telehealth and electronic medical records initiatives to the Norman Regional Health System $300,000 for wastewater and water quality protection to the city of Ardmore $250,000 for construction of 1 million gallon water storage tower to the Ada Public Works Authority $350,000 for a centrally located resource center for the Ardmore Development Authority $250,000 to assist with the downtown development project in Lawton $750,000 for biofuels refining at the University of Oklahoma $375,000 for an aquifer study at the Arbuckle-Simpson Aquifer $352,500 for a Forensic Justice Center and $235,000 for forensics equipment at East Central University $351,000 for facilities and equipment for the city of Stonewall $195,000 for a telemedicine demonstration at Integris Health $1.3 million for a fire and movement range at Fort Sill ###
12.18.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - Yesterday Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) made the following statement after voting against the behemoth, half-trillion dollar combined spending bill last night."When stacked up, this omnibus bill stands over a foot high on top of my desk," Congressman Cole said. "It is evident that this document, swollen with needless and wasteful spending, did not undergo adequate scrutiny in the legislative process. The bill was reported out of the Rules Committee less than 24 hours before it was voted on in the House. That is hardly enough time to consider one of the largest combined spending measures in our nation's history.""In addition to what can be found in the bill, it is startling to discover what is not included. Remarkably, the leadership of the House saw fit to pass this legislation without providing vital funding to our troops who are serving on the frontlines in Iraq. Even with the progress that has been reported by General Petraeus and other military and civilian experts, the House leaders appear to be ignoring the needs of our troops fighting the War in Iraq. This is an irresponsible and unacceptable approach that I cannot in good conscience support."###
12.11.2007	WASHINGTON - Today Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) released the following statement after sending a letter to President Bush with other members of the Oklahoma delegation. The letter detailed the impact that the ice storm has had on the state and thanked the President for his swift action to approve federal assistance for victims of the storm."Officials in our state have accumulated a lot of experience working with the President on disaster declarations," Congressman Cole said. "President Bush, Lieutenant Governor Askins and other federal and state officials have worked quickly to see that the effects of this disaster are mitigated as much as possible. With these declarations and commitments for assistance in place, recovery teams will be able to go into affected areas and help citizens restore power and begin clean up as soon as possible.""I want to thank the families and communities that have opened their doors to friends and neighbors who have been without power since the storm hit. It is times like these that I am reminded how fortunate I am to represent some of the most decent and generous people in America."Severe storms began Saturday, December 8th and have been ongoing since that time. The 77 counties in Oklahoma have all been declared disaster areas. At this point, emergency assistance (Categories A and B), which includes limited direct federal assistance, has been approved by the President. This assistance will provide for the costs associated with removing tree limbs and other debris as well as sanding and salting expenses. For more information and the latest updates on the recovery effort, visit www.ok.gov/OEM. ###
12.07.2007	WASHINGTON - Today Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) released the following statement after the U.S.S. Oklahoma Memorial Dedication. Cole was able to attend the dedication ceremony and corresponding events in Ford Island, Hawaii, this weekend."This memorial is a tribute to honor the sacrifice of every person who served on the Oklahoma," Congressman Cole said. "On this battleship and in these waters, 429 men lost their lives. Those men performed countless acts of bravery, displayed remarkable strength and gave an unimaginable sacrifice for our country. I am proud that they are finally getting the appropriate recognition that they deserve.""I have also met with many of the surviving service members of the U.S.S. Oklahoma over the past few years. They deserve commendation for their service and recognition for their efforts to see this long-overdue Memorial dedicated. I have been honored to work with them to see this shared vision become a reality. This Memorial will serve as a fitting way to honor those servicemen and will carry the memory of their heroic service into the next Oklahoma century."In 2005, Congressman Cole, a member of the powerful House Rules Committee, led the debate on the rule for the legislation that authorized the creation of the U.S.S. Oklahoma memorial. A rule must be passed before the actual piece of legislation can be debated. Cole then was able to use his position to ensure that the amendment was added to the manager's amendment and then inserted into the FY06 Defense Authorization Act (H.R. 1815). That amendment directed the Secretary of Interior and the Secretary of the Navy to move forward in the creation of a memorial for the U.S.S. Oklahoma. ###
11.29.2007	WASHINGTON - Today Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) and Congressman Kenny Hulshof (MO-09) announced the terms of their friendly wager on the Big 12 Conference football championship happening this weekend between the Oklahoma Sooners and the Mizzou Tigers.Each Representative is wagering a basket of home state products on the outcome of the game. Cole's basket will include Bedre Chocolates, made in the Fourth District by the Chickasaw nation, of which Cole is an enrolled tribal member. Hulshof is wagering a package of Missouri-made goods, which will include candy from the Candy Factory in Columbia, as well as other products."The only thing sweeter than Bedre chocolates is beating the Tigers twice in one season," Congressman Cole said. "I'm looking forward to celebrating the Sooner victory with a basket full of Missouri's finest fare.""I'm offering as large of a package as possible, with little concern that I’ll actually have to pay up," Hulshof said. "In the unlikely event of a Sooner victory over the #1-ranked Tigers, Tom will reap some of the best that mid-Missouri has to offer. But he shouldn’t get his hopes up."In addition to serving as the area representatives for the University of Oklahoma (OU) and the University of Missouri-Columbia (MU), both men are graduates of their respective schools. Cole received his Ph.D. from the University of Oklahoma and Hulshof earned his undergraduate degree at the University of Missouri-Columbia.The championship is being held Saturday, December 1, at the Alamodome in San Antonio, Texas. Missouri is entering the Championship game with an 11-1 record this season, while Oklahoma has a 10-2 record.###
11.09.2007	WASHINGTON - Yesterday Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) announced that funding has been included in the FY08 Department of Defense Appropriations Conference Report for projects that will benefit the 4th District."It is vital to the success of our military that they have the resources they need to serve and protect America," Congressman Cole said. "I am proud that this funding will also help fund critical defense and military-related projects in Oklahoma."Cole secured the following projects in the 2008 defense funding bill:$3.2 million for the Call for Fire Trainer Iteration II/Joint Fires and Effects Trainer System (CFFT/JFETS) in Lawton and at Fort Sill. $2 million for the Joint Fires and Effects Training System at Fort Sill. $2 million for the Infrared Materials Center in Ardmore and at the University of Oklahoma. $1 million for UH-60 MEDEVAC Thermal Imaging Upgrades in Lexington. The 2008 Department of Defense Appropriations Conference Report passed the House yesterday. It will now move to the Senate for passage and then be put to the President to be signed into law.###
11.07.2007	WASHINGTON - Yesterday Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) made the following statement after the House Majority approved an expensive appropriations bill with millions of dollars of unrelated pork-barrel spending requests. In a highly unusual move, the House leadership combined a measure to support our nation's troops and veterans with a highly contentious - and pork laden - measure to fund the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education."This is another example of how this Congress has played politics with our nation's most critical needs," Congressman Cole said. "Instead of working together with the Republicans to pass a clean bill to support our troops and veterans, Nancy Pelosi has cynically attached this important legislation to a wholly unrelated bill that is jam packed with wasteful pork barrel spending.""I am prepared, along with other fiscally responsible members of Congress, to send the President a clean bill that will fund our troops and veterans. After the President vetoes this bill, Speaker Pelosi needs to stop her shameful abuse of power and bring these two unrelated spending bills to the floor for two separate votes. The American people are rightfully tired of the political gamesmanship that is becoming a hallmark of this new congressional majority."Yesterday evening the House passed the Milqual-VA/Labor-HHS conference report by a vote of 269-142.###
11.01.2007	WASHINGTON - Today Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement in an effort to encourage fire prevention and safety grant seekers to submit their applications before the November 30th deadline."These funds will be used to help teach the public how to prevent fires and fire related hazards," Congressman Cole said. "I am proud that there are so many organizations in the Fourth District that have expressed a desire to help children and adults learn to identify potential fire hazards. Because of their efforts - each day is safer for Oklahomans. I hope that each organization will take advantage of this opportunity to apply for additional Fire Prevention and Safety grants."The deadline to submit applications for Fire Prevention and Safety grants is November 30th, 2007. The funds will be awarded to grantees that desire to create educational materials, public safety campaigns or similar fire-prevention awareness programs. Grant seekers can find application assistance at www.firegrantsupport.com. This site provides a tutorial program that will help answer questions about the application process as well as provide advice for drafting competitive applications. It also explains the program's funding priorities and evaluation criteria.###
10.31.2007	WASHINGTON - Today Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after providing a briefing of his recent experiences in Iraq to White House officials and Lieutenant General Doug Lute, the Deputy National Security Advisor for Iraq and Afghanistan."This morning's briefing went very well," Congressman Cole said. "It was an exceptional opportunity for both Congressman Keller and me to share our experiences in Iraq with General Lute, a man the President has asked to coordinate our policy in Iraq at the White House level. It was a very candid conversation with time dedicated to focusing on both the successes that have been made in Iraq as well as the obstacles that have to be overcome in the future.""I have a tremendous amount of respect for General Lute - a man who has served this country with distinction throughout his lifetime. He is a fine leader and I trust that he will continue to faithfully execute his duties to provide honest assessments to our government leaders. Like Congressman Keller and me, General Lute sees real progress on the ground in Iraq. All three of us believe it is critical that the Iraqi government move decisively to take advantage of this opening. And all of us believe success will require patience and commitment on the part of our government.""While we should be able to draw down U.S. forces as the situation in Iraq improves, this must not be done at a pace faster than our commanders on the ground believe to be prudent. Certainly we must not allow Al Qaeda or the insurgency to reclaim the ground that they have lost in recent months.""General Lute seemed pleased to hear our description of the high state of our soldiers' morale, the decision of many local Sunnis to turn away from the insurgency and Al Qaeda and the obvious decline in the level of violence in Iraq. I believe he thought our first hand account of what we had seen and heard was both encouraging and consistent with the official reports he receives on a regular basis.""While we are realistic and cautious, Congressman Keller and I both believe the situation is improving. The surge has given us a chance to succeed and to safely draw down. However, the pace may be slower than some would like and the key to success is the ability of Iraqis to work with one another as well as with the Coalition."Congressman Cole returned last week from a three day trip to Kuwait, Iraq and Germany. He was accompanied on the trip by three other members of Congress. One of those members, Congressman Ric Keller (FL-08), participated in today's briefing as well.While in Iraq, Cole met with General David Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan Crocker, officials who provided assessments of the situation in Iraq to Congress in August. Cole also met with Deputy President ‘Adil ‘Abd al-Mahdi of Iraq as well as other provincial and city leaders. The Congressional Delegation was able to visit a troop entry-exit point at Camp Arifjan in Kuwait, a state-of-the-art military hospital in Balad, Iraq, and a joint security station in Ramadi, Iraq. This was Cole's seventh trip to Iraq.###
10.24.2007	WASHINGTON - Today Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) released the following statement after receiving word that Delta Airlines has announced they will begin offering twice daily flights between Lawton, Okla. and Atlanta, Ga., starting March 2008."This is great news for Lawton and Southwest Oklahoma," Congressman Cole said. "Not only will these flights add to the convenience of our citizens in and around Lawton, it also makes it easier for others around the country to do business in Lawton. I want to welcome Delta to the city of Lawton and thank them both for their commitment to Southwest Oklahoma."Delta Air Lines announced this morning that it will offer flight access to a network of destinations through a nonstop service to the airline's hub in Atlanta. Lawton/Ft. Sill customers will be able to use the only jet service to and from the area through Delta Connection's carrier Atlantic Southeast Airlines service. Delta Air Lines is one of the largest airlines in the world with service to 310 destinations in 54 countries worldwide. ###
10.22.2007	WASHINGTON - Today the House of Representatives passed Congressman Tom Cole's (OK-4) bill to authorize $900,000 to administer a water feasibility study in order to find future water sources for Norman, Midwest City and Del City, Oklahoma. "This was a critical step in the process of securing water resources for cities in Central Oklahoma," Congressman Cole said. "Because these areas are growing rapidly, the demand for additional water is only going to get greater as time goes on. I believe it is vital that these needs are anticipated early so that Oklahomans will have access to water as they need it. I am pleased that this legislation has passed the House and I look forward to seeing it signed into law."This bill, H.R. 1337 directs the Commissioner of the Bureau of Reclamation to conduct a feasibility study of the amount of water used by the Central Oklahoma Master Conservatory District (COMCD) and the cities served by it. The study would include possible proposals for drilling additional wells, increasing the storage capacity of Lake Thunderbird and transporting surplus water from outside sources. The primary source of water for the COMCD is Lake Thunderbird. But, over the years one of the cities that receive water has exceeded their annual share of allotted water from the lake. Cole hopes this study will enhance the current and long-term water needs of COMCD and the cities it serves.The bill is expected to be voted on in the Senate in the near future. ###
09.17.2007	WASHINGTON D.C. -- U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) bid farewell recently to summer intern Rayne Austin. Austin was chosen by Cole to intern in the Lawton, Oklahoma district office."I believe that internships are a great way for students to experience the inner-workings of government first-hand," Congressman Cole said. "Rayne has been an excellent intern and he has done our office a great service by diligently working with so much enthusiasm. He made an impact in Lawton this summer and I am confident he has a bright future ahead of him."Austin was chosen to serve as an intern in Cole's Lawton district office. Interns assist staffers in a number of activities including researching grants, answering constituent concerns and helping with general office tasks. Austin is the son of Dea Ann Butler of Ringling, Oklahoma. He graduated from Ringling high school in May and began as a freshman at Oklahoma State University in August.###
09.13.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) released the following statement today in response to the President's address to the nation regarding progress in Iraq. “The President’s speech capped a remarkable week in which all of America has had an opportunity to evaluate the assessments of progress in Iraq offered by General David Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan Crocker. I had the opportunity earlier this week to listen to their testimony in the joint meeting of the House Armed Services and Foreign Affairs Committee. Their testimony convinced me that we have made real progress on the ground in Iraq and that drawing down our forces precipitously would be dangerous for our own security and to the stability of the area. I’m very pleased that the number of American troops in Iraq will begin to come down in a measured pace in the months ahead. I support the course that General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker have recommended and the President has embraced. I hope members on both sides of the aisle will put aside their differences and recognize the stakes in Iraq are of historic importance to the United States and that our military and diplomatic personnel deserve the undivided support of the American people as they complete this dangerous but important mission.”###
09.10.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) released the following statement today in response to an ad placed in today's New York Times by MoveOn.org. "It is widely known that MoveOn.org has attempted to intimidate Members of Congress into adopting a withdrawal timetable that experts believe would cause more death and destruction. The course they recommend would result in the deaths of tens of thousands of innocent Iraqis. While that is their political prerogative, they have gone too far in their recent character attacks against General David Petraeus.""General Petraeus has devoted his professional life to serving and protecting America against those who wish us harm. Moveon.org owes an apology to the General and the soldiers who have served alongside him in the fight against terrorism. This is a critical time for the future of our country and we ought to be working together to find a real solution instead of turning Iraq into a political, partisan game."###
09.10.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) issued the following statement today after General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker delivered their Iraq progress reports to Congress."The progress report we received today indicates that there has been substantial successes and that the recent troop surge has worked as it pertains to the security situation in Iraq. Although there is much work still to be done, there is irrefutable evidence that in the past eight to twelve weeks, the security strategy in Baghdad has worked to diminish sectarian violence. Our troops have seen some of their greatest triumphs in Anbar Province, where the level of violence has declined steadily for over six straight months. That violence has declined in part because of our efforts to smother Al-Qaeda's movement of terror that started in Anbar Province. Fighting these battles in Iraq has helped significantly to diminish their ability to bring their movement of terror into our country." "We cannot afford to fail in Iraq. In fact, General Petraeus noted that failure or rapid withdrawal would mean immense human suffering for thousands of Middle Easterners and would further exacerbate the number of refugees that would be forced to flee to neighboring countries. Furthermore, failure in Iraq, precipitated by a premature withdrawal, will leave a power void that would almost certainly be filled by Iran. That is not a risk the United States can take because it affects our own security.""It is vital that our leaders put aside politics and come together to give our military and the elected leaders in Iraq the time they need to transition power effectively. General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker have given the American people a candid assessment of our progress in Iraq, as well as our setbacks. The path to success in Iraq is not going to be quick or simple, but given their assessments, it is clear to me that we are making important progress."###
09.04.2007	WASHINGTON D.C. -- U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) bid farewell today to summer intern Grant Haines. Haines was chosen by Cole to participate in the internship program in Washington, D.C."Internship programs in D.C. are a great way for students like Grant to obtain real life experience working for the government while living in an exciting city," Cole said. "Grant's helpful personality and dedicated work ethic have made him a wonderful intern. He did a great job this summer and his presence will be missed around the office."Cole's 2007 Summer Intern Program allows upper class college students to participate in a number of activities including giving Capitol tours, attending congressional hearings and markups, gathering press clips and aiding staff on legislative projects."Working on Capitol Hill is a great way to take what I've learned in the government classroom and apply it to real life," Haines said. "The knowledge and experiences I've gained from this internship will stay with me for a long time."Haines's hometown is Sulphur, OK, where he graduated from Sulphur High School in 2005. He is the son of John and Shelley Haines of Sulphur. He is a junior at the University of Oklahoma studying journalism with an emphasis in advertising. ###
09.04.2007	WASHINGTON D.C. -- U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) bid farewell today to summer intern Tyler Barrett. Barrett was chosen by Cole to participate in the internship program in Washington, D.C."I believe that internship programs are a great way for students to see the inner-workings of government first-hand," Congressman Cole said. "Tyler is a hard worker and he has done our office a great service by diligently working with so much enthusiasm. He made an impact on our office this summer and I am confident he has a bright future ahead of him."Cole's 2007 Summer Intern Program allows upper class college students to participate in a number of activities including attending congressional hearings, giving Capitol tours to constituents and aiding legislative staff with projects."Working on Capitol Hill has given me a unique insight into the operations of the federal government that I could not get anywhere else," Barrett said. "I believe the knowledge and skills I gained as an intern will prove invaluable to my future career plans and goals."Barrett is the son of Anthony and Lacy Barrett of Norman, Oklahoma. He is a senior majoring in Political Science at the University of Oklahoma. He plans to attend law school follow graduation next May.###
09.04.2007	WASHINGTON D.C. -- U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) bid farewell today to summer intern Elsie Urueta. Urueta was chosen by Cole to be an intern for a three month internship in the Washington D.C. office."Spending a summer as an intern is a wonderful way for students like Elsie to experience the government working environment," Congressman Cole said. "Elsie's personality and her commitment to hard work have made her a valuable member of our office this summer. She did a great job and we truly benefited from having her work here." Cole's 2007 Summer Intern Program allows upper class students to participate in a number of activities including attending congressional hearings, giving Capitol tours to constituents and aiding legislative staff with projects."This internship has opened my eyes to a new political and vibrant world. I have gained so much from this internship: a greater understanding of the inner workings of our federal government, a full grasp of daily life in a big city, and life-long friends," Urueta said. "I will cherish these memories for days to come. This has greatly influenced my professional aspirations and I am so thankful I had this opportunity."Urueta is from Owasso, Oklahoma and graduated from Union High School. She is the daughter of Elsi Flores Walkabout and Francisco Urueta. She is a senior at the University of Oklahoma, planning to graduate in May 2008, with a double major in International Business and Marketing and a double minor in Spanish and Psychology. After graduation, Urueta plans to go to law school to pursue an international law degree.###
08.09.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Cole made the following statement after hearing the news that three disaster recovery centers have opened in Comanche, Pontotoc, and McClain counties. The temporary facilities are open for the next few days. Disaster victims can visit the centers to ask questions and receive written recovery-related information. "I am pleased that these disaster recovery centers have opened in counties within the Fourth District. This is an excellent way for citizens to find answers to their questions and get help," Congressman Cole said. "Oklahoma Emergency Management officials, local FEMA members, and officials from the U.S. Small Business Administration will be able to provide in-depth information to those whose homes and businesses were damaged by flooding. My office is also available to answer questions and help families, small business, farmers and ranchers that were affected by the disaster." The disaster recovery centers (DRCs) have opened in Comanche, Pontotoc, and McClain counties. Disaster victims are urged to register for assistance before visiting the DRCs. Individuals can register by calling 1-800-621-FEMA (3362) or on-line at www.fema.gov. The TTY number is 1-800-462-7585 for the speech- or hearing-impaired. For any additional information, Congressman Cole's office can be reached at 405-329-6500.Business owners and residents can receive information about disaster loans provided by the Small Business Administration (SBA). They can begin the application process by calling the SBA at 1-800-659-2955 or visit the SBA Web site at www.sba.gov/services/disasterassistance. The DRCs are open from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Listed below are the locations of the three DRCs open in the Fourth District. August 8th-12thComanche County4135 West GoreLawton, OK 73505August 9th-14thPontotoc CountyThe Source Community Building730 East Main St.Ada, OK 74820August 9th-14thMcClain CountyMid-American Technology Center27438 State Highway 59Wayne, OK 73095 ###
08.06.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) today announced his district town hall schedule for August. Cole will travel within the Fourth District to meet with constituents to discuss key topics relating to federal legislation and Oklahoma."I am looking forward to going home and talking with Oklahomans about what concerns them," Congressman Cole said. "I am happy to invite people from the Fourth District to come voice their concerns and ask questions about federal issues and how they affect Oklahoma."Cole is scheduled to begin his town hall meetings on Thursday, August 23rd in Dibble, Oklahoma and conclude on Friday, August 31st in Healdton. Please contact the Norman Office at (405) 329-6500 for more information about Cole's town halls.Thursday, August 23 - 12:00 p.m.Dibble Community Center12219 Fireman's RoadDibble, OKMonday, August 27th - 12:00 p.m.Lindsay City Council Chambers308 Southwest 2ndLindsay, OKMonday, August 27th - 5:30 p.m.Glover-Spencer Memorial Library100 South 6th StreetRush Springs, OKTuesday, August 28th - 12:00 p.m.First Baptist Church of Hollister515 Majors AvenueHollister, OKTuesday, August 28th - 5:30 p.m.Chattanooga Civic Center305 3rd StreetChattanooga, OKWednesday, August 29th - 12:00 p.m.Goldsby City Council Chambers100 East Center RoadGoldsby, OKThursday, August 30th - 12:00 p.m.Thackerville City HallHighway 77 SouthThackerville, OKFriday, August 31st - 12:00 p.m.Healdton Community Library17 S. 4th StreetHealdton, OK###
08.02.2007	Debt Forgiveness to Waurika Lake Master Conservancy DistrictBill Provides Critical Step to Future Development of Lake Texoma Shoreline WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) voted yesterday to pass the conference report on the Water Resources Development Act of 2007 (WRDA). The WRDA bill includes a provision that will forgive certain debts incurred by the Waurika Lake Master Conservancy District (WLMCD) for construction and upkeep of the District's dam and the corresponding system that provides water for rural, south-central Oklahoma. Additionally, this bill ensures that the ownership rights of over 200 acres along the shore of Lake Texoma is permanently transferred from the federal government to the state of Oklahoma. "I am very proud that this legislation has passed the House," Congressman Cole said. "I know that the entire delegation has worked together to ensure that important Oklahoma projects were included in the final version of this bill.""Senator Inhofe and I worked closely to make sure that debt elimination will be provided to the conservancy project to reimburse them for their efforts to provide water resources for rural parts of the district. I am happy that this bill will eliminate the debt they accrued. This vital funding can now be reinvested into Oklahoma communities to help them meet their future water needs." The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has billed the WLMCD for costs that came about during the construction of the Waurika Lake Dam and the water distribution center. The WLMCD includes Comanche, Duncan, Lawton-Ft. Sill, Temple, Walters, and Waurika."Congresswoman Fallin and I worked diligently to make sure that Oklahoma is able to retain ownership of this land," Congressman Cole added. "I look forward to seeing all of the economic development that will come out of Lake Texoma and surrounding areas as a result of this change. I am also glad that more job opportunities will be created for residents in Southern Oklahoma."This legislation will permanently transfer ownership of 227 acres of shoreline along Lake Texoma from the federal government to the state of Oklahoma. Once the state has full ownership of the area, private entities have plans to purchase the land and develop it into a premiere tourist destination. More specifically, there are plans to develop residential neighborhoods as well as a resort hotel and golf course.The conference report for WRDA legislation passed overwhelmingly through the House yesterday. The Senate will vote on the same conference report later this week before sending the bill to the President to sign it into public law. ###
07.27.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) voted against H.R. 2419 - more commonly known as the Farm Bill. Citing a last minute tax provision intended to offset spending requests, Cole and others pointed out that such a tax hike could potentially drive foreign investors and American jobs out of the country. "Oklahoma's farmers deserve genuine assistance, not partisan bills filled with tax hikes and secret agendas," Congressman Cole said. "Many Oklahomans are employed by the very companies that could be hit with this massive tax increase - companies that have brought jobs into communities across our state. Jeopardizing these jobs in order to pay for excessive, non-farm related spending is an unacceptable policy." Many Oklahoma residents are employed at one of more than a dozen major corporate subsidiaries in the state. These foreign investors have "insourced" jobs, providing over 31,700 new opportunities to Oklahomans. Those working in the manufacturing sector could be hurt substantially since manufacturing companies employ 35% of the total number of the workforce put at risk by these tax hikes. "Nancy Pelosi and her allies have chosen to pay for their pet projects by punishing international companies who have provided Americans with over 5 million jobs. This might have a significant impact on companies invested in Oklahoma such as BP, Nestle, HSBC, Siemens, and Michelin. Trade and tax policy should facilitate job growth for Americans, not give companies a reason to avoid investing in the U.S. or force them to move off-shore. Holding American farmers hostage in order to force a tax increase on companies creating jobs in America is an unnecessary and false choice. And it should not be the solution to the Democrat's Farm Bill budget problem." Cole cited the Michelin plant in Ardmore, Oklahoma as a possible victim of the proposed Democratic tax hike. "That plant is the largest single site employer in Southern Oklahoma," Cole stated. "I will not endanger the jobs at that facility so Washington Democrats can spend more money. Without a full legislative hearing we cannot know exactly how this bill will impact Oklahoma businesses and workers. That is not a risk I am willing to take." Americans for Tax Reform, the National Association of Manufacturers and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce are among the increasing number of well-respected outside groups that have voiced opposition to the Democrats' Farm Bill tax increase. Additionally, this legislation calls for a tax increases that have never been considered by the Ways and Means Committee during any hearings, markups or bipartisan debate. Unfortunately, the bill passed the House today by 231 to 191. Nevertheless, Cole predicted that the Democrat Farm Bill would not become law. "As long as it contains taxes on American jobs, this bill is unlikely to pass the Senate and, if it does, will almost certainly be vetoed," Cole said. "It's time for the Democrats to stop holding American farmers hostage to their tax and spend policies and work with Republicans to pass a Farm Bill that can become law."###
07.25.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) issued the following statement today on H.R. 2929, the latest political feat masquerading as a bill offered by House Democrats. "This legislation is political grandstanding by the Majority that wastes the time and money of the American people," Congressman Cole said. "Several pieces of legislation have already passed the House of Representatives this year which have expressed opposition against or prohibited the establishment of permanent military bases in Iraq. In fact, the President has signed three of those bills into law. The opposing party is merely wasting taxpayer dollars by having the House consider this redundant legislation. This bill is a distraction, taking time and attention away from more pressing issues.""The overwhelming bipartisan opposition to permanent bases in Iraq expressed in the vote on this bill show that there is no desire for an indefinite U.S. presence in that country. To claim otherwise is a political stunt that is designed to score partisan points rather than engage in an honest debate over real differences between the two parties."###
07.19.2007	Rep. Cole Condemns Bait and Switch Policy for Upward Bound WASHINGTON, D.C. - Yesterday Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) spoke in favor of his amendment to prevent the Department of Education from imposing an unnecessary and unfair evaluation policy on the Upward Bound program. The amendment was passed by voice vote."The Department of Education's Absolute Priority program is inconsistent with our teachers' obligation to do what is best for their students," Congressman Cole said. "The required evaluation component of Absolute Priority would have Upward Bound programs recruit twice as many students as they would be able to serve. This second set of students would then be directed away from TRIO, becoming a control group to prove or disprove TRIO's effectiveness. Additionally, the second set of students in the Absolute Priority program would be ineligible for TRIO after being unknowingly placed in the control group.""I offered this amendment to help put a stop to the harmful Upward Bound evaluation requirement that recruits more students that it can help," Congressman Cole added. "We should aim to put our students and teachers on the path to success and redirect our support to valuable programs like TRIO.""Although I am pleased that this amendment passed, I have serious concerns about the amount of spending in the overall legislation," Congressman Cole said. "Too many extravagant spending projects have been inserted into the bill. Hopefully when it comes back to the House for final passage a conference committee will have trimmed some of the pork." This amendment was offered jointly by a bipartisan partnership of members comprised of Tom Cole (R-OK), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Carol Shea-Porter (D-NH) and Bobby Scott (D-VA). The final legislation must now be considered by the Senate. ###
07.18.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.) and U.S. Rep. Tom Cole (R-Okla.) today announced that Boeing, BAE Systems and the U.S. Army have jointly chosen Elgin, Oklahoma as the site of the Army’s Non-Line of Sight Cannon (NLOS-C) integration center.Senator Inhofe: “I am excited to learn that after some delay, Elgin has been chosen as the site of the NLOS-C integration center. Elgin was jointly chosen by Boeing, BAE Systems and the Army because of its close proximity to Fort Sill, the home of field artillery, which will enable the vehicle to roll off the assembly line and onto the testing range without losing time or money in transportation. In 2004, as chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, we reauthorized the Economic Development Administration, which made $2,250,000 available for the development of the Elgin Industrial Park. These funds helped spur the initial development of the facility for the NLOS-C. This will bring numerous jobs to the Elgin area and establish Southwest Oklahoma as the core of our nation’s next generation of field artillery.” Representative Cole:“I am proud to announce and support Boeing's decision choosing Elgin to host this facility. I am confident that the city of Elgin has the necessary resources and leadership in place to successfully be a part of the NLOS-C manufacturing program. In this new role, Elgin will develop vehicles that utilize ground-breaking developments in distance and precision strike technology. These advancements to military arms and transportation will ultimately ensure safer conditions for our soldiers to operate under. As a member of the Armed Services Committee, I understand the importance of locally supporting the production efforts as the area prepares for the construction of the Elgin facility. " Background:The Elgin facility will be used to support production integration of the NLOS-C, an indirect fire support component of the Future Combat Systems (FCS). Initial prototypes of the NLOS-C will complete integration at the Elgin facility in the last quarter of 2008 with an anticipated NLOS-C early production quantity of 18 units from 2010 to 2012 (six per year). Follow-on production of NLOS-Cs will occur at a rate per year to be determined by the US Army.The city of Elgin will determine the size of the new facility as they build the Industrial Park. The NLOS-C requirements are for 150,000 square feet. The facility will be used for NLOS-C, other related FCS integration, the Paladin Integrated Management (PIM) Program, which will enable the Paladin (a current Army artillery piece) to meet the needs of the future battle field, and potential work outside of the FCS. Construction of the facility is set to start as soon as possible as the facility is needed no later than January 2009. Once Elgin completes integration of the NLOS-C, the vehicles will be sent to the Fort Sill range where they will finish their final integration step - live weapons fire.Combat experience and extensive analyses have shown that the greatest threat to ground force survivability is indirect fire artillery. While air power, precision-guided bombs and missiles often receive all the glamour on the modern battlefield, cannon artillery still plays a critical role in today’s fight by serving as the only 24-hour, all-weather reinforcement for the infantry soldier – a fact proven in recent conflicts. The U.S. Army currently ranks behind several other countries in cannon artillery capabilities, and U.S. Army after-action studies from Operation Iraqi Freedom, Afghanistan, and Desert Storm have exposed the critical need for the U.S. Army to have an advanced cannon artillery solution. The Army’s Future Combat System and the NLOS-C will return the United States Army to its status as a world leader in combat capability on, above, and around the battlefield.Future Combat Systems (FCS):Future Combat Systems is a revolutionary system at the core of Army modernization that includes a new family of manned and unmanned ground and air vehicles, sensors and weapon systems. FCS will provide soldiers with unprecedented levels of joint connectivity, situational awareness and lethality. It is designed to enable soldiers to see, understand and act first across the full spectrum of military operations, from pre-insurgency operations to full combat. FCS Brigade Combat Teams (BCT) will have twice as many soldiers mounted and under armor, increasing their survivability, while its networked sensors and weapons will allow them to locate and engage the enemy from greater distances. The NLOS-C will be the first FCS Manned Ground Vehicle to be produced. NLOS-C:The Non-Line of Sight Cannon (NLOS-C) will provide networked, extended-range, responsive and sustained precision attack of targets in support of the Brigade Combat Teams. The NLOS-C will be a self propelled howitzer with a two man crew. It will have a 155 mm, caliber cannon, a fully automated reloading system and a high level of commonality with other Manned Ground Vehicle (MGV) variants to reduce operating costs. It will incorporate next-generation armor technologies, as well as a suite of protection measures to enhance crew and platform survivability. The NLOS-C will be able to move rapidly and deliver a lethal artillery strike on target in unprecedented time.###
07.16.2007	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) announced today that he has promoted Liz Eddy to serve as his Press Secretary. Liz will be replacing Carmen Terry who has accepted a position working for Congressman John Carter as his Communications Director. "I am pleased to promote Liz Eddy to the position of press secretary," Congressman Cole said. "Liz is a hard-worker and I have every confidence that she will be able to excel. Our office is fortunate to have her in this critical position," Cole added. Eddy started her career on Capitol Hill as a staff assistant in Congressman Cole's office. She is currently pursuing a master's degree in international relations at the University of Oklahoma's advanced program in Washington, D.C. She graduated with a bachelor's degree in communications from Baylor University in December 2005.###
07.12.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.- U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) today opposed H.R. 2956, legislation that would, among other things, require the Secretary of Defense to begin withdrawing troops from Iraq within 120 days. This legislation is a clear attempt by the new majority in Congress to undermine the authority and recommendations of our commanders in the field of combat."I am disappointed that this bill passed and that our troops are being used as political pawns by Speaker Pelosi and her liberal cronies. Consideration of this legislation wasted the time of the American people because it will never become law. Even if it passes in the Senate, it will be vetoed and that veto will be sustained. Our armed forces are in a tough fight. We should reinforce them, not undercut them. And we should do everything we can to encourage and strengthen the Iraqi government, not abandon it during this critical transition period," Congressman Cole said. Cole, who participated in the debate on the floor, said the Democratic bill was, "the wrong debate at the wrong place at the wrong time, sending the wrong message to the enemy, the Iraqis and our own troops." This resolution was voted on after limited debate on the House floor. Ultimately the resolution passed by a vote of 223 to 201. ###
07.11.2007	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) today welcomed the government's announcement that this year's federal budget deficit will be nearly $40 billion lower than originally projected, which means that the deficit is less than half of what it was just three years ago. The Associated Press reports that the drop can be credited to "impressive revenue growth from the healthy economy." “Today’s news is just further evidence that tax relief has kept our economy growing,” Congressman Cole said. “As a result of Republican pro-growth policies, taxpayers have been able to reinvest their money into the local economy - which ends up boosting overall tax revenues to the federal government. This is a good day for the American taxpayer.” The President and the White House’s Office of Management and Budget (OMB) announced the new figures at 1 p.m. today as part of a midyear fiscal review. Originally projected to be $244 billion, the OMB says that the deficit will come in at about $205 billion. According to Bloomberg News, “… [T]he current deficit, at 1.5 percent of gross domestic product, is the lowest since 2002.” Cole warned, however, that continued fiscal discipline is required if the United States is going to achieve the goal of balancing the federal budget by 2012. “I believe we have a solemn responsibility to manage the taxpayers' money wisely and prudently. That is why I will continue working to hold the line on wasteful government spending, reject all attempts to raise taxes, and offer to work with Members from both parties to address runaway entitlement spending,” Cole continued. Last week, the government announced that 123,000 jobs were created in June. Our economy has now added jobs for 46 straight months, and the unemployment rate remains low at 4.5 percent. ###
07.06.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.-- Today Congressman Cole (OK-4) sent a letter to President Bush requesting relief funding for Comanche County's flooded areas. This request would extend relief to the area in conjunction with Governor Henry's initial disaster request. "My hope is that this request will lead to expedited approval of disaster relief for Comanche County. The situation is decidedly grim with substantial damage to public utilities and infrastructure, damage which will be unaffordable for these local governments to replace. Both my staff and I have spent time touring the affected areas of my district for the last week. I will work closely with the Governor as he continues to add additional counties to his disaster request. From my survey of the Fourth District I am convinced that he will do so as soon as the damage assessment teams provide him with the information he needs to justify additional requests," Congressman Cole said.###
06.28.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.--U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) today congratulated Alexa Healey, the winner of the 2007 Congressional Art Competition, An Artistic Discovery. Healey traveled to Washington D.C. to participate in the competition's annual ribbon cutting ceremony and reception. "Oklahoma students are full of talent and dedication and it is an honor to serve them in Congress," said Congressman Cole. "I am happy that Alexa and her family were able to make the trip to Washington to see her artwork showcased in the Capitol building. This is truly an accomplishment." The artwork, "Chucks" was chosen by a panel of judges in Norman. The piece will hang as part of a national exhibition in the tunnel between the U.S. Capitol and the Cannon Building. While in Washington, Healey met with Congressman Cole, toured the Capitol building and attended the ribbon cutting ceremony. ###
06.28.2007	Norman Water Feasibility Modified to $900,000 WASHINGTON, D.C.-Today the Natural Resources Committee of the House of Representatives passed Congressman Tom Cole's (OK-4) bill that would authorize $900,000 to the Central Oklahoma Master Conservatory District (COMCD) for a water feasibility study to establish additional sources of water for Norman, Midwest City, and Del City, Oklahoma. An amendment passed that increased the funding from $300,000 to $900,000 during the full committee markup. "Passage in the committee is the next step in assuring that the Central Oklahoma Master Conservatory District receives the funds they need in order to conduct this vital water study," Congressman Cole said. "This study is critically needed to explore new ways to provide water to the growing population of Central Oklahoma, and I look forward to seeing this legislation signed into law."The study would include possible proposals for drilling additional wells, increasing the storage capacity of Thunderbird Lake, and transporting surplus water from outside sources. Although the original request was for $300,000, Cole was able to modify the allocation to $900,000 in order to accommodate the growing needs of the COMCD's feasibility study. The bill is expected to be voted on in the House in the near future.###
06.26.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) introduced legislation that would assist in the preservation and recognition of the Chisholm and Great Western Cattle Trails. H.R. 2849, the Chisholm and Great Western Cattle Trails Act of 2005, would specifically designate the two trails for a study to determine the suitability of placing these trails within the National Trails System as National Historic Trails."It is time to ensure the preservation and recognition of such an important piece of history for the states of Texas, Oklahoma, Kansas, and indeed, the country as a whole," Congressman Cole said. "Future American generations deserve to know the importance and origins of the great western cowboy, and their contributions to the success of the cattle industry after the Civil War."The Chisholm and Great Western Cattle Trails were used in full force during the years between the late 1860's and the late 1880's by Texas cattlemen to bring their herds to the high-demand consumers in the east. These trails started in Texas from several feeders, and journeyed north, parallel to one another, through Oklahoma to railroad depots in Kansas where they were transported via railroad to the eastern states.The Chisholm Trail runs through Jefferson, Stephens and Grady counties in Oklahoma's Fourth Congressional District. ###
06.15.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.- U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) today voted against passage of the Homeland Security Appropriations bill aimed at increasing non-emergency spending by $4.3 billion, which is twice as much as requested by the President in the FY 08 budget."This bill busts the federal budget without doing anything to increase our homeland security," Congressman Cole said. "The President requested a healthy amount for homeland security spending. These across the board increases on all appropriations bills will drive up the deficit and ultimately create higher taxes for hard-working American families. This is yet another example of the new Majority's appetite for bigger government and higher tax burdens on hard-working Americans."In addition to spending more money overall, the Majority tried to sneak billions in secret earmarks into the bill. Because House Republicans stood united against the Majority's secret slush fund plans, two critical earmark reforms from last year that had been eliminated were reinstated."As a member of the Rules Committee in the 109th Congress, I was able to help implement reforms that gave members the opportunity to challenge earmarks," Congressman Cole said. "The House Majority decided to remove these reforms from the rules that they approved during the first month of the 110th Congress. They were willing to sacrifice the credibility of the spending process by making congressional earmarks more secretive than ever. Fortunately, House Republicans stood together and forced the Majority leadership to back down from the secret earmark slush fund, and give members the right to challenge wasteful spending on the House floor. "Last year's reforms required full disclosure of all earmarks and disclosure of who requested them before the spending bill is voted on in the House. The reforms also give Members the right to challenge, debate and vote on wasteful earmarks contained in spending bills before those bills are voted on in the House."If an earmark is worthy of one cent of the taxpayers' money, it must be able to withstand public scrutiny. The taxpayers' money must never be spent behind closed doors," Congressman Cole continued. "Although we achieved an important victory on behalf of American families by retaining transparency in spending bills, the outrageous level of excessive spending in this particular bill is unacceptable."###
06.08.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Many Oklahomans finding themselves without passports due to a new federal regulation set in place by the United States State Department may see a bit of summer relief. House Minority Leadership along with State Department officials have worked to temporarily suspend new passport regulations that took effect this year resulting in a significant increase in passport processing time. The new suspension will be in place until September 30, 2007, allowing Oklahoma summer travelers to still travel to certain areas without a passport."These new regulations will help alleviate some of the summer travel stress for many Oklahomans by allowing them to travel in and out of specific areas with their proof of passport application and official government issued identification," Congressman Cole said. "I am happy to see the administration take the first step in assisting summer travelers with their plans; however, this suspension will only last until September 30, 2007, so those travelers planning fall or holiday vacations should still apply for their passports as soon as possible."According to the State Department website, adults who have applied for but not yet received a passport should present government-issued photo identification, such as a state issued driver's license, a state issued identification card, or military identification and an official proof of application from the U.S. Department of State. Children under the age of 16 traveling with their parents or legal guardian will be permitted to travel with the child's proof of application. Travelers who have not applied for a passport should not expect to be accommodated. U.S. citizens with pending passport applications can obtain proof of application at: https://travel.state.gov.The suspension only applies to those travelers entering Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean and Bermuda. It does not affect any requirements to travel to and from other countries. Americans traveling to countries that require passports must still present those documents. Beginning as early as 2008, all U.S. citizens traveling by air, land and sea will be required to present a valid passport.Travelers planning on traveling in and out of the continental United States should keep in mind the following tips.· Travelers who have applied for passports should monitor the status of the application online at https://travel.state.gov/passport. Customers may track the progress of their applications within one week of applying. The online status check will verify that the application is in process, and will update to confirm that the completed passport has been mailed.· If a customer is within two weeks of travel and the website does not show that the passport is completed, traveler s should call the National Passport Information Center (NPIC) at 1-877-487-2778 for information and assistance in arranging to have their passports ready for their trips.· Travelers not needing immediate assistance should leave phone lines opened for those with immediate travel needs. · Travelers who benefit from the flexibility permitted for travel to Mexico, Canada, the Caribbean and Bermuda do not need to contact the NPIC about their application. Passport applications will continue to be processed.· Applicants traveling in two to three weeks may apply using expedite service at their nearest passport acceptance facility. The nearest passport acceptance facility may be found at https://iafdb.travel.state.gov/.· Applicants traveling in less than two weeks who have not applied for a passport should contact NPIC by email using the form at https://travel.state.gov/passport/about/npic/npic_896.html.· Applicants should be sure to indicate on their application their travel plans and departure date.· Applicants requesting and paying for expedited service must write "EXPEDITE" on the outside of the envelopes containing their application.· Travelers who have not applied for passports should do so as soon as possible.· Complete information on how to apply for a passport is available at the Consular Affairs website, https://travel.state.gov.###
06.07.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) along with Assistant Secretary William C. Anderson and Major General Del Eulberg today honored Tinker Air Force Base (AFB) for their achievement of two of the Air Force's annual environmental excellence awards. The awards were presented at the United States Air Force General Thomas D. White Environmental Awards Ceremony at the Pentagon."It is such an honor to represent such a renowned Air Force Base as Tinker," Congressman Cole said. "These awards show how Tinker has demonstrated an unwavering commitment to community and a sustained dedication to enhancing environmental quality in Oklahoma and across the country."Tinker AFB received the General Thomas D. White Environmental Quality Award in the Industrial Installations Category for their implementation of sludge dewatering at the industrial wastewater treatment plant to eliminate 90 percent from the base's number one waste stream, converting aircraft surface treatment using environmentally compatible products, and the use of alternative fuels in 75 percent of the base vehicles which will reduce air emissions by 20 tons per year. In addition, Tinker was also awarded the General Thomas D. White Pollution Prevention Award in the Individual/Team Category for their ability to shrink the installation's waste stream by thousand of tons annually, and reduce the amount of toxic releases by 1.4 million pounds.###
06.07.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) today strongly opposed S. 5, the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2007. This bill expands the number of embryonic stem cell lines that are eligible for federally funded research, and has already been issued a veto threat from the President if it crosses his desk."I am a strong proponent of stem cell research, but I cannot support research that destroys living human embryos in order to obtain stem cells," Congressman Cole said. "This is human life that must be respected-not destroyed."The vote comes a day after the Associated Press and Wall Street Journal reported major advances in ethical stem cell research that would produce stem cells without destroying a human embryo. Earlier this year Cole co-sponsored legislation that encourages and funds research on Pluripotent Stem Cells that can eventually specialize in any bodily tissue, but cannot develop into a human being.Yesterday the House passed similar legislation to foster the creation of cloned human embryos for the purpose of using them in research that will kill them. H.R. 2560, falsely labeled the Human Cloning Prohibition Act of 2007, claims to ban human cloning. In reality, the bill legitimizes creating and cloning any number of human embryos for use in research that will kill them, but makes it unlawful to attempt to allow such a human clone to live by implanting him or her in a womb."This bill doesn't ban human cloning. Instead, it makes it legal to create and clone human embryos and then use them for research that would kill them," Cole said. "The hope of finding cures for life-threatening diseases is exciting, but the research should be done in a manner that recognizes certain moral and ethical boundaries," Cole continued. "And those options are abundant as well as extremely promising. It is tragic that in their zeal to promote a politically motivated agenda that the Congress ignored these opportunities and instead embraced policies that have questionable potential to cure disease but are certain to destroy human life."###
05.25.2007	Bill includes Drough Relief, Wildfire Disaster Relief and BRAC funding WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) voted last night in favor of the House Emergency War Spending Bill which provides $120 billion for our men and women in uniform and includes BRAC and agriculture disaster relief funding. "It is well past time that our troops receive the funding they need to succeed in Iraq and Afghanistan without tying their hands and micromanaging the war from Washington," Congressman Cole said. "I am glad at least a few dozen Members of the Majority Party in Congress finally put aside their political antics and agreed to work with Republicans in producing a clean bill that honors the requests of our Generals and our men and women on the ground in Iraq." Additionally the emergency spending bill includes $22 billion in other spending including BRAC and Agricultural disaster relief."I am also happy to see that this bill includes disaster relief for Oklahoma's farmers who suffered greatly from recent weather related disasters, as well as BRAC funding that is critical to our military families at Fort Sill," Congressman Cole concluded.###
05.25.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.-U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) joined Congresswoman Mary Fallin and Congressman John Sullivan in asking the U.S. State Department for assistance with problems concerning the Houston Passport problem. Staffers from Cole's office spoke with Deputy Assistant Secretary Anne Barrett earlier this week to request additional staff be expedited to the Houston office. In light of the request, the State Department has provided a surge team to the Houston office to assist in alleviating the passport backlog. "I am grateful for the State Department's speedy response to our request and am hopeful this will make it easier for people traveling over the summer to get their passport in time for their trip," Congressman Cole said. "Our district staff has been working diligently to speed up the process time for many travelers, and I encourage anyone experiencing passport problems to contact our Norman office for assistance."New regulations require all U.S. citizens traveling by air between the United States and Canada, Mexico, Central and South America, the Caribbean, and Bermuda will be required to present a valid passport. Beginning January 1, 2008, all U.S. citizens traveling by air and sea will be required to present a valid passport.Most Oklahoma passport applications are processed at the Houston facility, which has reported a backlog of 90, 000 passports. For more information regarding passports contact Cole's Norman office at (405) 329-6500.###
05.22.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.-U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) today congratulated Tyler Simmons on his appointment to the Unites States Naval Academy. Cole nominated Simmons for the Naval Academy's 2007 freshman class."Tyler is a prime example of Oklahoma's finest. He has proven himself as a leader not only at Washington High School, but also through his church and his extracurricular activities." Congressman Cole said. "His commendable decision to attend the Naval Academy will make his family and his state very proud. It is an honor to serve Oklahomans like Tyler in Congress."At Washington High School Simmons participated on the varsity football team, serving as the team captain for the past two years. He was also a member of the varsity basketball, track and power lifting teams. Simmons was a member of the National Honor Society, Fellowship of Christian Athletes, and Student Council, where he served as Student Body President his senior year. Simmons is the son of Bobby and Linda Simmons of McClain, Oklahoma.###
05.18.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.-This month marks the fourth anniversary of the 2003 Republican tax cuts, which have provided broad-based tax relief, spurred economic growth, and helped generate record revenue flows to the federal government. Now, in celebration of this anniversary, the Majority in Congress wants to turn their backs on this successful track record and impose a tremendous tax hike on American taxpayers."American taxpayers have been able to keep more of their hard-earned money in their wallets due to the tax cuts of 2001 and 2003. This has resulted in four years of robust, sustained economic growth that has been enormously beneficial to Oklahoma families and small businesses," Congressman Cole said. "But now, Nancy Pelosi and the Majority want to reverse course by imposing the largest tax increase in history on the American taxpayers. Make no mistake, the Democratic budget that passed this week will destroy jobs and ultimately bring our economic growth to a screeching halt."In the first year after the 2003 tax cuts were enacted, over 26 million families received a tax cut averaging $950. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, since August of 2003, more than 7.8 million jobs have been created. The economy has created jobs for 44 straight months, and the unemployment rate remains low at 4.5 percent.In addition, real after-tax personal income increased at a strong 4.5 percent annual rate. Per capita, real after-tax income has risen by 10.4 percent - more than $3,000 - since 2000. Real wages have risen 1.3 percent over the 12 months ending in March, meaning an extra $765 in the past year for the typical family with two wage earners.As a result of the tax cuts, every taxpayer who paid taxes will get tax relief this year. The tax cuts of 2001 and 2003 doubled the child tax credit, reduced the marriage penalty, cut taxes on dividends and capital gains, and put the Federal death tax on the road to extinction. "This month Americans will celebrate four years of a prosperous economy, and they will feel it in their wallets," Cole continued. "Unfortunately the Majority in Congress will celebrate this monumental day by beginning to repeal the very policies that created this prosperity."###
05.17.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.-U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) today voted in favor of the FY 08 Defense Appropriations bill that includes over $53 million for Oklahoma's Military Operations."These funds are not only beneficial to the overall effectiveness and capabilities of our military, but also greatly benefit our bases and military support facilities here in Oklahoma," Congressman Cole said. "I will be working closely with my colleagues to ensure these funds remain in the final passage of the bill."Cole was successful in securing funds for the following areas in the FY 08 Defense Authorization Bill.· $1.3 million for the Fire and Movement Range at Fort Sill.· $5 million for the Call For Fire Trainer Iteration II/Joint Fires and Effects Trainer System (CFFT/JFETS) in Lawton and at Fort Sill.· $7.2 million for the Joint Fires and Effects Training System at Fort Sill.· $2 million for the Infrared Materials Center in Ardmore and at the University of Oklahoma.· $2.5 million for the HIMARS Modular Launcher Communications System in Lawton and at Fort Sill.· $9.5 million for UH-60 MEDEVAC Thermal Imaging Upgrades in Lexington.· $5.3 million for the B-1B MSOGS Reliability Improvement Program at Tinker Air Force Base.· $21.1 million for the Excalibur, XM982 155mm Extended Range Artillery Projectile. The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008, H.R. 1585, authorizes $504 billion in budget authority for the Department of Defense (DoD) and the national security programs for the Department of Energy. Additionally, the bill authorizes $142 billion in supplemental funding to support current operations in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere in the Global War on Terrorism. Additional highlights of the bill include:· Additional funding for force protection needs in support of Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom, including $4.1 billion for state-of-the-art Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicles. ###
05.17.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.-U.S. Congressman Tom Cole, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, today introduced an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act that would allocate $4 million to create a brain health assessment program for all active duty soldiers pre and post-deployment. "The men and women serving our country deserve the best medical treatment this country can provide for them," Congressman Cole said. "These funds will go to design a program that will assist active duty military with their health needs before they leave and after they return home from war. We have so many soldiers who have survived life threatening injuries, but now, due to the type of trauma they suffered, are experiencing health problems with their brains."The program would include the administration of computer-based neurocognitive assessments, pre-deployment assessments to establish a neurocognitive baseline for members of the Armed Forces for future treatment, a tool to assess mood states associated with post-traumatic stress syndrome, and a standardized battery of tests to assess traumatic brain injury.The amendment was included in the National Defense Authorization Act which overwhelmingly passed the House earlier today.###
05.17.2007	Congress must work through Memorial Day recess to produce a clean funding bill WASHINGTON, D.C.-U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) today joined nearly every member of the Republican Conference in sending a letter to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) calling her to keep the House in session until Congress sends President Bush a clean funding bill that he will sign into law."As we speak, our men and women in uniform are in a foreign land fighting for our country. They fight everyday for our freedoms. There is no vacation from their mission, and right now they need Congress to give them what they need." Congressman Cole said. "It has been over 100 days since the Pentagon has sent their request for resources, and for over 100 days, Congress has denied our troops the resources they have asked for to successfully complete their mission."The letter was sent to Speaker Pelosi eight days before Congress is scheduled to adjourn for the Memorial Day recess. Legislative business is not scheduled to resume until June 5th."This is not the time for politics. Our troops desperately need us to supply them with resources, and time is running out," Congressman Cole continued. "Memorial Day is the time to honor our soldiers, not the time to take a vacation and put off supplying them with the resources they need. We need to postpone our summer break and work together to produce a clean bill that the President can sign into law."###
05.11.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.-U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) last night voted in favor of the House agricultural disaster assistance supplemental bill. This legislation would allow people and organizations in Oklahoma who have experienced losses due to weather related disasters to apply for disaster relief assistance."Oklahomans have experienced numerous losses due to the recent wild fires, floods and tornadoes that have struck many portions of our state," Congressman Cole said. "This bill will open the door for those people who have been greatly affected by these natural disasters to seek assistance from the federal government."The disaster relief bill will provide agriculture assistance to producers who experienced crop losses in 2005, 2006 or 2007 due to bad weather. The bill also provides compensation for livestock losses in 2005, 2006 and 2007, due to a disaster, including losses due to hurricanes, floods, anthrax, wildfires and blizzards in Oklahoma and other states. In addition, the bill provides a combined $400 million for the Bureau of Land Management and the U.S. Forest Service for "urgent wildland fire suppression activities."The bill comes just days after Oklahoma Governor Brad Henry declared a State of Emergency for all 77 Oklahoma counties in the wake of tornadoes, torrential rains and flooding that have impacted much of Oklahoma in recent weeks. ###
05.11.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) last night opposed the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008. This bill diverts critical intelligence resources from hunting down al Qaeda to studying climate change. "I believe that common sense solutions that promote clean air and water are very important," Congressman Cole said. "But I do not believe that our nation's intelligence dollars should be redirected from gathering information that has kept our country safe from another attack to studying climate change. We have federal agencies already designated for these types of studies."The 2008 Intelligence Authorization Act cuts human intelligence programs counter to the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission, and significantly cuts certain specific initiatives related to America's efforts to counter radical jihadists and to support our nation's objectives in Iraq, but calls for the Director of National Intelligence to submit to Congress a national intelligence estimate (NIE) on the geopolitical effects of global climate change. "Intelligence dollars should be used to strengthen America's intelligence capabilities, especially when our country is in a time of war," Congressman Cole continued. ###
05.10.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) today strongly opposed the House Majority's attempt to ration funds for the troops and ultimately retreat from Iraq. "Today the new Majority in Congress passed a spending bill that will force a quick retreat from the Global War on Terror, and slash funds for the covert operations that have kept our country safe from another 9/11 attack. General Petraeus and our troops on the ground deserve the funding they need-they don't deserve to be put on a payment plan set by Congress half a world from the battlefield," Congressman Cole said. "No matter where you stand on the war, it is unconscionable to put our troops on life support until Congress decides to pull the plug. Those are our sons and daughters over there fighting for our freedom. They deserve to get the resources they need, and time is running out." The latest version of the emergency spending bill is unlike the recent bill that was vetoed by President Bush on May 1, 2007. The bill complies with the President's request to remove troop withdrawal requirements; however, the bill takes a two step approach by providing $42.8 billion to the Pentagon immediately-43 percent of the funding level provided in the original spending bill. This funding would support the Global War on Terror for approximately three months.In July, following submission of the President's report on progress in Iraq, the House and Senate must pass a second resolution to release the additional $52.8 billion in funding. "I have said it before, our troops should not be used as bargaining chips for political gain," Congressman Cole said. "It is time for this political game to stop and it is time for this Congress to produce a clean spending bill that will give our men and women on the ground the funds they desperately need to succeed in Iraq and return home."###
05.03.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) today strongly opposed the Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act of 2007. This legislation imposes additional federal penalties for having prohibited thoughts, and would eliminate any concept of "equal justice" under the law, dividing Americans into different classes of people subject to different protections under the law."I strongly believe that every violent crime should be justly punished according to the crime, not according to race, ethnicity, sexual orientation or social status," Congressman Cole said. "All victims should have equal worth in the eyes of the law. This bill creates unequal treatment of victims by treating crimes against protected groups more seriously than non-protected groups."According to the bill, justice will depend on whether the victim is a member of a protected category. The bill calls for crimes involving a protected category to be punished more severely than crimes inflicted on a non-protected category. In 2005, Oklahoma reported 41 hate crimes to the FBI. FBI statistics show that the incidence of hate crimes has actually declined over the last ten years.Unfortunately this bill passed the House with a majority vote of 237 to 180. The President plans to veto the bill in its current form if it reaches his desk###
05.03.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.-U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) voted last night in favor of H.R. 1592, the Improving Head Start Act. This bill will reform and strengthen the Head Start early childhood program. The program provides comprehensive early childhood services to low-income preschool children and their families."Head Start is a valuable program that has helped prepare children in Oklahoma for kindergarten as well as improve the conditions necessary for their success in school and life," Congressman Cole said. "Investing in early childhood education is important, and by strengthening and improving the already successful Head Start program, we are capable of even greater results."The Improving Head Start Act will strengthen Head Start's academic components, improve fiscal and program management, establish a greater role for states, local school districts, and parents, and expand the reach and impact of Head Start programs. Today, Head Start provides services to nearly one million children across the United States.###
05.02.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.-U.S. Congressman Tom Cole, a member of the Chickasaw Nation and the only enrolled tribal member in the Congress, today co-sponsored the Tribal Government Equality Act of 2007. Congressman Earl Pomeroy (D-ND) is the primary sponsor. This bill corrects a provision in the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA) and ensures that federal benefits laws treat tribal governments in the same way as other governments."I am happy to support legislation that recognizes tribal sovereignty by leveling the playing field when it comes to governmental pension plans," Congressman Cole said. "Current law places unfair and unequal restrictions on Native American tribes. Tribal governments are entitled to be treated like any other government, and their status should not contain restrictions that are not applied to every other form of government."The PPA that was signed into law in 2006 contained a provision that affords governmental plan status only to those tribal pension plans that cover employees performing "essential government functions." It excludes those tribal pension plans that cover tribal government employees performing commercial activities. This distinction does not apply to federal, state and local pension plans. This inequity jeopardizes the secure retirement of tens of thousands of tribal government employees in Oklahoma and across the nation. "This is a matter of basic fairness and the recognition of tribal sovereignty. I intend to work closely with the bill's primary sponsor, Congressman Pomeroy, to pass this bill and ensure that the federal benefits laws treat tribal governments the same as their federal, state and local counterparts," Congressman Cole said. "I look forward to seeing this bill pass on the House floor in the near future."###
05.02.2007	Calls on Majority to Produce a Clean and Timely Emergency Funding Bill WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, today voted to sustain the President's veto of the Majority's Emergency Supplemental Bill which mandates a rigid and artificial deadline for troop withdrawal from Iraq. "Congress has a responsibility to bring forth a clean spending bill that will supply our troops on the ground the funds they need to successfully complete their mission so they can return home," Congressman Cole said. "This political tug of war has gone on long enough, and now that the President has held his ground by vetoing this bill, it is up to the Majority leadership to do the right thing and produce a clean spending bill that does not tie the hands of our troops. Time is running out and they need to do it quickly." Last night President Bush vetoed the supplemental spending bill stating that it substituted the opinions of politicians for the judgment of military commanders on the ground in Iraq. The bill included a mandate for an artificial deadline for American troops to begin withdrawing from Iraq, and contained billions of dollars of domestic spending that has nothing to do with fighting the War on Terror."Giving the enemy specific dates for troop withdrawal would not only secure our failure in Iraq, but also put our men and women over seas in harms way," Congressman Cole continued. "Passing this bill was an irresponsible move of the Majority leadership, and I am glad to see our Commander in Chief acted responsibly by vetoing the bill. I hope Speaker Pelosi and Majority Leader Reid will put aside their differences and provide General Petraeus and his forces with the funding they require to fulfill their mission. Our men and women in uniform deserve nothing less."In order for the House to sustain a presidential veto they must obtain a two-thirds majority. Fortunately, the House voted to sustain the veto by a vote of 203 to 222. ###
04.26.2007	Cole opposes Majority's Emergency Spending Bill that sets benchmarks for withdrawalWASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, last night strongly opposed the House Majority's Iraq Supplemental Appropriations Bill. While the supplemental the House passed on March 23 called for a redeployment of our troops to begin no later than next March, this version of the bill calls for troop withdrawal to be mostly completed by that time. "Our commanders on the ground in Iraq deserve to have the resources and flexibility they need to lead our troops during this critical phase of their mission," Congressman Cole said. "This bill is another legislative demonstration of the defeatist mentality that encompasses a new House Majority that has already voted twice to provide Al-Qaeda with a specific date for American draw down in Iraq. This will embolden our enemies, discourage our Iraqi allies and disappoint our own troops while they are in the middle of a tough fight. "The Majority's supplemental appropriations bill emerged from a conference meeting between Majority leaders from the House and Senate. The Senate is scheduled to vote on the same version of the bill sometime today. Despite a bipartisan attempt to provide our brave men and women in uniform the funding they need to succeed in their mission, House Leadership refused to compromise with the President who has firmly stated he will veto any language that sets restrictive timelines on withdrawal from Iraq."This bill ties the hands of our Commander in Chief by micromanaging the war from Washington. Our troops don't need 535 Members of Congress calling the shots half a world away from the battlefield," Congressman Cole continued. "Congress unanimously entrusted that duty to General Petraeus and our commanders on the ground. General Petraeus is a man I know and trust. He deserves a chance to implement his strategy and successfully complete his mission." The conference report came just hours after General Petraeus met with Washington lawmakers to give them a top-secret briefing on progress of the recent troop surge in Iraq. All members of Congress were invited to attend.Cole, who attended the briefing, said, "I was impressed by what I heard and by General Petraeus' commitment to keep us fully aware of the situation on the ground."The new Majority's failure to provide emergency troop funding in a timely fashion has already proven costly for our Armed Forces. Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Peter Pace stated at a Defense Subcommittee meeting that due to funding shortages, the Army will have to begin cutting back training for the Guard, Reserve and for units. This means that the baseline for those units will be reduced as far as capability which, over time, could delay their ability to go back into combat. Unfortunately the Majority's supplemental conference report passed the House by a vote of 218 to 208. The earlier House version of the bill also passed with 218 votes, the bare minimum needed for passage. Once the bill passes through the Senate, it is expected to be vetoed by the President as soon as it reaches his desk. "Once the President vetoes this badly flawed bill, I hope Speaker Pelosi and Majority Leader Reid will put aside their differences and provide General Petraeus and his forces with the funding they require to fulfill their mission," Cole continued. "Our men and women in Iraq and Afghanistan and throughout our military deserve nothing less."###
04.25.2007	Cole has strong voting record on critical American business issues WASHINGTON, D.C.-U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) has been awarded the "Spirit of Enterprise" award by the United States Chamber of Commerce. The award was presented to Congressman Cole for his strong record on critical business issues in the second session of the 109th Congress."I am proud of my record of support for American businesses and I'm honored to accept this award from the United States Chamber of Commerce," Congressman Cole said. "I firmly believe that by keeping American businesses strong, we keep America strong." The "Spirit of Enterprise" award is given annually to members of Congress based on key business votes which are outlined in its yearly publication, How They Voted. Cole compiled a 100 percent score with the Chamber last year and holds a cumulative 99 percent ranking during his tenure in Congress."Rep. Cole proved to be a valuable ally to the business community last year, supporting measures to stimulate job creation and spur economic growth," said Tom Donohue, Chamber president and CEO. "The business community appreciates Tom's dedication to a pro-growth agenda and we are proud to present him with this award."The Chamber's designated "key votes" are recorded floor votes on issues established as priorities by the Chamber's board of directors, on which the Chamber informs Congress of its position prior to the vote. House members who support the Chamber's position on at least 70 percent of these votes receive the award. During the second session of the 109th Congress, the Chamber monitored 15 House votes, including comprehensive pension reform, extended tax relief, and maritime and cargo security enhancements.###
04.24.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.-U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) today supported passage of H.R. 1676, the Native American Home Ownership Opportunity Act of 2007. This legislation, which passed the House today, reauthorizes the Section 184 loan guarantee program administered through the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) through fiscal year 2012. The bill provides loan guarantees to private-sector lenders who make mortgage loans to eligible borrowers for homes located in Native American Communities. "I am proud to vote for a bill that will increase home ownership and improve the quality of life for Native American communities in Oklahoma," Congressman Cole said. "As a member of the Chickasaw Nation, fighting for the interests of Native Americans has long been one of my highest priorities and I will continue to work hard on their behalf."Oklahoma currently has 24 tribes who participate in the program. Nationally the program assists 196 Native American tribes in obtaining their own home. Since its establishment, the program has guaranteed $517 million in loans nationwide, including $122 million in Oklahoma alone. Due to its strong Native American population, the state consistently represents 34 percent of the total loans guaranteed through the program. Nationally, much of the land in Indian Country is held in trust by the federal government and therefore cannot be mortgaged without a program such as this. More information on the program or on how to participate in the HUD Section 184 loan guarantee program can be found at www.hud.gov.###
04.20.2007	Bill Includes Vital Lake Texoma LegislationCole Attempts to Eliminate Waurika Lake Master Conserancy District Debt Obligation WASHINGTON, D.C.-U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) last night voted in favor of the Water Resources Development Act of 2007 (WRDA). Included in the bill was legislation introduced by Cole and Congresswoman Mary Fallin earlier in the year that would transfer 227 acres of shoreline on Lake Texoma from the federal government to the state of Oklahoma."I am happy to see legislation pass that will benefit so many Oklahomans," Congressman Cole said. "Now that Oklahoma has ownership of the land, we can begin developing a first-class resort and tourist destination that will bring in private investment and create new jobs in Southern Oklahoma. Both Congresswoman Fallin and I have worked very hard to help bring about this first step towards significant economic development in the Lake Texoma area." The property transfer included in the bill will eliminate one of the final obstacles to a long anticipated private development including residential neighborhoods, a resort hotel and a golf course. Cole also offered an amendment to the WRDA bill that would eliminate the obligation of the Waurika Lake Master Conservancy District (WLMCD) in Oklahoma from paying its outstanding debt to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE)."This amendment would be a tremendous benefit to the citizens of Oklahoma by allowing the conservancy district to invest vital funds back into the communities," Congressman Cole said. "Several rural Oklahoma communities desperately need this amendment in order to sustain their water infrastructure and secure their long-term supply of water." According to the WLMCD, the USACE continues to bill the conservancy district for additional construction and administrative costs regarding the construction of the Waurika Lake Damn and the water distribution center after the final cost and repayment schedules had been set. Elimination of debt obligation would provide fundamental means that would be reinvested into six rural towns including, Comanche, Duncan, Lawton-Ft. Sill, Temple, Walters, Waurika and their surrounding communities. Unfortunately the amendment was not accepted by the new majority on House Rules Committee and was not allowed to be considered on the House floor.The WRDA bill passed the House by a vote of 394 to 25.A copy of Cole's testimony before the House Rules Committee is attached.###
04.19.2007	Norman Water Feasibility Study Expected to be Modified WASHINGTON, D.C.-Today the Water & Power Subcommittee of the Natural Resources Committee considered U.S. Congressman Tom Cole's (OK-4) bill that would authorize $300,000 to the Central Oklahoma Master Conservatory District (COMCD) for a water feasibility study to establish additional sources of water for Norman, Midwest City, and Del City, Oklahoma. Following the subcommittee's consideration, the bill is expected to be considered by the Natural Resources Committee and then advance to the House floor where it will be voted on by the entire House. "This is the first step in assuring that the Central Oklahoma Master Conservatory District receives the funds they need in order to conduct this vital water study," Congressman Cole said. "This study is critically needed to explore new ways to provide water to the growing population of Central Oklahoma."The study would include possible proposals for drilling additional wells, increasing the storage capacity of Thunderbird Lake, and transporting surplus water from outside sources. Although the original request was for $300,000, Cole is hopeful that he will be able to modify the allocation in order to accommodate the growing needs of the COMCD's feasibility study. The bill is expected to be considered by the Natural Resources Committee in the next couple of months.###
04.18.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.--U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) announced today that law enforcement agencies, fire and other emergency responders seeking federal assistance can apply for the Department of Homeland Security's Commercial Equipment Direct Assistance Program (CEDAP) grants beginning April 25, 2007 through May 29, 2007."Our local police stations, firefighters and emergency responders have shown great courage and diligence over the past months keeping our communities safe during the many weather related disasters that have impacted our state," Congressman Cole said. "These grants will provide them with technology and equipment they need to assist them and keep us safe. I encourage all eligible departments to apply for these federal grants."Beginning April 16, 2007, prospective applicants may review the program solicitation through the Responder Knowledge Base (RKB) at www.rkb.mipt.org/. The application submission period will open on April 25, 2007. Completed applications must be submitted to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) via the RKB at www.rkb.mipt.org/ no later than 11:59 p.m. EST on May 29, 2007.CEDAP provides smaller communities and rural areas with technology and equipment, together with training and technical assistance, to help enhance first responder capabilities throughout the nation. CEDAP grants are awarded through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) which is part of DHS.###
04.17.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.-As millions of Americans lined up at post offices around the country to file their 2006 income tax returns, U.S. Representative Tom Cole (OK-4) marked Tax Day 2007 as a bittersweet moment with the new House Majority preparing to put the tax hammer to working families, senior citizens and small business owners."This Tax Day, Oklahomans will once again reap the benefits of pro-growth Republican policies that have put more of their hard-earned money back into their pockets, right where it belongs," Congressman Cole said. Indeed, this year American taxpayers, on average, will have less of their hard earned money confiscated by the federal government than they did in 2006. And today the average federal tax rate for a four-person family earning the median income is at its lowest since the 1960's. However, despite continued economic progress, the new Majority in Congress recently passed a budget that will impose an average $2,500 tax hike on 1.175 million Oklahomans. Across the country this budget will impose an average increase of $2,890.11 on American taxpayers, and 26 million small business owners nation-wide will see nearly $4,000 in federal tax increases."This is a bittersweet Tax Day for the American people," Cole continued. "The new Majority in Congress has made it very clear that their first priority is to raise taxes by billions of dollars on millions of Americans. The Wall Street Journal has said that a tax increase of this magnitude could well lead to an economic recession. For Congress to ignore these facts and allow the world's greatest economy to decline into recession is simply unforgivable. Our national economic security is literally at stake and it is critical that we not allow the progress we have made to be reversed by tax hikes."###
04.05.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.--U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) announced today that fire departments seeking federal funds can apply for the Department of Homeland Security's Federal Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) until May 4, 2007. "Firefighters in Oklahoma have shown great courage and diligence over the past months keeping our communities safe during the many weather related disasters that have impacted our state," Congressman Cole said. "These grants will help them purchase equipment and other resources needed to assist them and keep us safe. I encourage all eligible departments to apply for these federal funds."Application kits are available at www.firegrantsupport.com. Fire departments that have questions regarding this grant opportunity should contact the Help Desk at 1-866-274-0960 or by email at firegrants@dhs.gov. The Help Desk will operate Monday through Friday, from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. and on Saturdays from 7 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. An online tutorial is available on the website as well as the e-grant application.The AFG funds are used by the nation's firefighters to increase the effectiveness of firefighting and emergency response operations and to improve firefighter health and safety. The program assists rural, urban and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. In addition the AFG program allows non-fire based EMS organizations to apply for grants. ###
03.29.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.-U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (R-Moore) today strongly opposed the new Majority's budget proposal calling for the largest tax increase in American history, $392.5 billion over five years. The proposed budget allows the tax cuts of 2001 and 2003 to expire, effectively raising taxes on middle class families, small businesses and family farms."I will never support a budget that allows Congress to waste massive amounts of money and charge it to the taxpayers," Congressman Cole said. "The budget proposed by Nancy Pelosi and her liberal allies in Congress will result in bigger government, fewer jobs and less opportunity for middle class taxpayers to pursue the American Dream. This contradicts the Oklahoma values of hard work, thrift and fiscal responsibility."The Majority's budget proposal will impose a $2,500 tax hike on 1.175 million Oklahomans. And across the country this budget will impose an average increase of $2,890.11 on American taxpayers, and 26 million small business owners nation-wide will see nearly $4,000 in federal tax increases. In addition, the Majority's budget proposal will increase federal spending in 2008 by $22.5 billion dollars for non-defense, non-emergency appropriations. "Oklahomans deserve to keep more of their hard-earned money. Congress should never use tax dollars to go on a reckless spending spree and expect the American taxpayers to pick up the tab," Congressman Cole continued. "I will work hard to pass a budget that reflects the values of Oklahomans, not those values represented by the liberals in Congress."Unfortunately, the Majority's budget proposal passed with a vote of 216 to 210. All five Oklahoma House Members voted against the resolution.###
03.29.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) today released the following statement regarding FEMA's denial of an appeal for individual assistance funding for counties in Oklahoma affected by the winter storms."I am very disappointed that FEMA' has once again failed Oklahoma by denying funding to individual's who have suffered great lost from recent winter storms. The damages in the nine hardest hit counties are beyond the state and local jurisdictions' capabilities to respond; therefore, federal assistance is very much needed. In both the 2000 and 2002 Ice Storms, 47 and 45 counties respectively were granted individual assistance with virtually identical damage to that suffered in the 2007 Ice Storm. FEMA's decision to deny individual assistance appears to be completely subjective and quite contrary to their previous decisions. This is yet another reason why FEMA should be removed from the Department of Homeland Security's purview and be made its own individual agency."###
03.29.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.-U.S. Congressman Tom Cole, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, stated today that he will strongly oppose any attempts to close the Guantanamo Bay detention facility and import dangerous terrorists into American communities. Earlier this week, Democrats on the House Armed Services Committee listed Fort Sill, Oklahoma as a potential relocation point for terror suspects held at Guantanamo Bay."Many of the terrorists held at Guantanamo Bay have killed Americans. Just this month, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed admitted to masterminding the 9-11 attacks," Congressman Cole said. "Transferring detainees to Fort Sill and other American communities will make them more likely targets of terrorism and make America less safe. This is a terrible proposal and one against which I will fight extremely hard." Options for moving these terrorists to detention facilities based in the continental United States were unveiled during a House Armed Services Committee Hearing this week. Democrats listed the following communities as potential relocation points.· Fort Leavenworth, Kansas;· Fort Knox, Kentucky;· Fort Sill, Oklahoma;· Fort Lewis, Washington;· Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune, North Carolina;· Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton, California;· Marine Corps Air Station Miramar, California;· NAVBRIG Norfolk, Virginia;· WPNSTA Charleston, South Carolina;· NAVSTA Pearl Harbor, Hawaii;· SUBASE Bangor, Washington;· NAS Jacksonville, Florida;· NAS Pensacola, Florida;· MCB Quantico, Virginia;· Edwards Air Force Base, California;· Kirtland Air Force Base, New Mexico; and· Lackland Air Force Base, Texas
03.29.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.-U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) today announced his upcoming district town hall schedule. Cole will begin traveling throughout Oklahoma's Fourth District next week to meet with constituents and discuss important issues effecting Oklahoma and our nation."I am excited to be headed home for a few weeks to travel and meet with the good people of the Fourth District," Congressman Cole said. "I want to hear your concerns and questions about issues going on in Washington. I look forward to finding ways to help you and make sure the interests of Oklahoma are heard in Washington."Cole is scheduled to begin his town hall meeting on Friday, April 6th in Lawton, Oklahoma and conclude on Friday, April 13th in Pauls Valley. Please contact the Norman Office at (405) 329-6500 for more information about Cole's town halls. April 6-12:00 p.m.Museum of the Great Plains Auditorium601 N. FerrisLawton, OK 73507 April 9-12:00 p.m.USAO Student Center BallroomCorner of 17th & AlabamaChickasha, OK 73018 April 9-5:30 p.m.Red River Technology Center (Main Building, Seminar Room)3300 W. Bois D'ArcDuncan, OK 73534 April 10-12:00 p.m.Ardmore Convention Center2401 N. Rockford RoadArdmore, OK 7340April 10-5:30 p.m.Red River Valley AuthorityHighway 32 W.Marietta, OK 73448 April 11-12:00 p.m.National Weather Center (Large Auditorium)120 David L. Boren BoulevardNorman, OK 73072 April 12-12:00 p.m.Rose State College (Student Center, Raider Room)Corner of Trosper Road & HudiburgMidwest City, OK 73110 April 13-12:00 p.m.Garvin County FairgroundsNorth Willow & ChickashaPauls Valley, OK 73075
03.28.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.-U.S. Congressman Tom Cole, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, voted today to ensure that America's wounded soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines receive the finest healthcare available through the military health system. H.R. 1538, the Wounded Warriors Assistance Act makes comprehensive improvements to medical care, quality of life and the administrative process associated with American troops wounded or injured in combat and other military medical outpatients."Every member of our military, and especially those who have been wounded in battle, deserves the very best health care this country can offer them," Congressman Cole said. "This legislation is the first step in ensuring that we protect our American heroes and their families by providing the necessary health care in a more prompt and efficient manner."This legislation comes weeks after reports of substandard conditions at Walter Reed Army Medical Center were brought to the attention of Congress. "The tragic circumstances at Walter Reed are highly unacceptable and Congress must to everything in its power to ensure this never happens again there or elsewhere throughout the military medical system," Congressman Cole continued. The Wounded Warrior Assistance Act of 2007 provides the people, training and oversight mechanisms needed to ensure that our wounded warriors receive the quality medical care they deserve and that the military health system does not fail them again. The legislation also sets the stage for much needed reform of administrative processes that will restore public confidence in the integrity and efficiency of the disability evaluation system and begin the process of achieving a truly seamless transition of service members to the Department of Veterans Affairs programs.This legislation passed by an overwhelming majority of 426 to 0.###
03.28.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.-U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (R-Moore) announced two staff changes in his Ada District Office. Amber Pollard has been promoted to Field Representative and Johnny Sandmann has been hired as Cole's Military and Veterans Caseworker. "I am very excited to have two native Oklahomans working in our Ada office. Both Amber and Johnny have proven themselves as smart, hard-working individuals with exceptional leadership skills," Congressman Cole said. "Their extensive knowledge of the district makes them both great assets to our team in Oklahoma. I know the constituents of the Fourth District will be well served by their experience and dedication."Pollard most recently worked as Cole's Military and Veterans Caseworker for two years before taking the Field Representative position. A native of Ada, Oklahoma, Pollard graduated from Ada High School and East Central University. She will represent Congressman Cole throughout the Ada/Ardmore area including Carter, Love, Marshall, Murray and Pontotoc counties. Pollard currently resides in Ada with her son.Prior to working for Cole, Sandmann worked for the Edmond City Manager's office while he attended the University of Central Oklahoma. Sandmann also served as Vice-President of the Coal County Chamber of Commerce, County Political Chair and as an Oklahoma delegate to the 2004 Republican National Convention. Sandmann currently resides in Coalgate, Oklahoma.###
03.23.2007	Cole opposes Majority's Emergency Spending Bill that sets benchmarks for withdrawal WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, today strongly opposed H.R. 1591, the Majority's emergency spending bill. This bill includes money to be allocated to troops only if arbitrary deadlines for withdrawal out of Iraq included in the spending bill are met. "This bill ties the hands of our Commander in Chief by micromanaging the war from Washington. We ought to be supporting our men and women on the ground in Iraq and giving them what they need instead of looking over their shoulders and calling the plays from here," Congressman Cole said. "We have a moral responsibility to take care of our soldiers, and we should provide them with the bullets and helmets they need to protect themselves and complete the mission without delay or strings attached." The emergency spending bill passed by a narrow vote of 218 to 212 in large part because it included $20 billion dollars of pork projects used to secure votes from majority members on the fence about the bill. "Our men and women in uniform sacrifice their lives to protect our freedoms. They should never be used as bargaining chips to acquire funds for Members' individual pet projects," Cole continued. "The priority of this country should always be the defense of this country. Our troops can't defend this country without resources and equipment and they can't fight the enemy if we hamstring them and make them fight with one arm tied behind their back."Unfortunately H.R. 1591 passed the House, but is expected to die in the Senate. The President has stated that he will veto the bill should it ever make it to his desk. ###
03.21.2007	New Budget Proposal Calls for the Largest Tax Increase in American History WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) today released the following statement regarding the House Democrats' FY 08 budget proposal, which calls for the largest tax increase in American history. "After six years of Republican led tax relief that has led to a booming economy, low unemployment, and substantial savings for the American people, the new Majority has laid out a budget proposal that calls for the largest tax increase in American history, $392.5 billion over five years. This proposal does nothing to reign in frivolous government spending and deliberately ignores the mounting entitlement spending facing our country today. ""On top of all this, the new Majority's budget proposal increases federal spending in 2008 by $22.5 billion dollars for non-defense, non-emergency appropriations. The Majority is proposing a reckless spending spree and asking the American taxpayer to pick up the tab. This destructive budget proposal threatens to bring our nation's booming economy to a screeching halt.""This is an issue on which Congress has a grave responsibility to reach across party lines and pursue a budget proposal that will keep dollars in the pockets of working Americans and maintain our strong economy." ###
03.20.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) today released the following statement regarding Operation Iraqi Freedom."This week marks the fourth anniversary of the war in Iraq. While there is no doubt that the situation in Iraq has been more difficult than originally anticipated, we must not overlook the success American forces along with the Iraqi people have made in the advancement towards freedom.""In January of 2005, Iraqi citizens participated in a free and fair election to choose an assembly that would draft a constitution. In October 2005, Iraqi voters approved a new permanent constitution and two months later nearly 12 million Iraqis chose a permanent government in a free election. Iraqi forces are also taking control of their own country's security. Over 320,000 Iraqi Security Force Members are risking their lives to secure their country and allow political progress to continue. Iraqi planned, Iraqi conducted and Iraqi-led missions continue throughout Iraq. And last November an Iraqi court convicted and sentenced Saddam Hussein to death for the massacres committed by his regime. The vast majority of Iraqi citizens want to live in peace and they are showing their courage every day.""While the challenge is not over, it is clear progress is being made. None of this would have been accomplished without the brave American soldiers who are spreading freedom to a country who has never seen freedom before and the Iraqi people who are fighting to secure their country's democratic future."###
03.17.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.-U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) is pleased to announce Alexa Healey of Ardmore as the winner of the 2007 Congressional Art Competition, An Artistic Discovery. The artwork titled "Chucks" was chosen from many pieces submitted by young artists from Oklahoma's Fourth Congressional District."Oklahoma students are full of talent and dedication and it is an honor to serve them in Congress," said Congressman Cole. "Alexa is clearly very talented and I am happy to showcase her artwork in the Capitol."The artwork, "Chucks" was chosen by a panel of judges in Norman. The piece will hang as part of a national exhibition in the tunnel between the U.S. Capitol and the Cannon Healey is invited to attend a ceremony honoring the winners and their artwork in Washington, D.C. later this summer.###
03.13.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.-U.S. Congresswoman Mary Fallin (R-Oklahoma City) and Congressman Tom Cole (R-Moore) today introduced legislation that would transfer ownership of 227 acres of shoreline on Lake Texoma from the federal government to the state of Oklahoma. This property transfer will eliminate one of the final obstacles to a long anticipated private development including residential neighborhoods, a resort hotel and a golf course."As Lt. Governor and Chairman of the Tourism Commission, I spent many years working to build a first class resort and tourism destination that will bring in private investment and create new jobs for southern Oklahoma," Congresswoman Fallin said. "This bill is one of the last pieces in the puzzle. I am extremely excited that Congressman Cole and I are finally seeing our work on the Lake Texoma project nearing fruition.""This is an important step towards significant economic development in the Lake Texoma area," Congressman Cole said. "And it's something that both Congresswoman Fallin and I have worked very hard to help bring about. I am eager to do whatever I can to help move this legislation forward and to help make this economic development a reality."The legislation introduced by Cole and Fallin would also clear up a longstanding debt dispute over Lake Arcadia between the city of Edmond and the United States Corps of Engineers, freeing up over $11 million dollars for the city. Congresswoman Mary Fallin is the U.S. Representative for the Fifth District of Oklahoma, which includes most of Oklahoma City and all of Pottawatomie and Seminole counties. Congressman Tom Cole is the U.S. Representative for the Fourth District of Oklahoma which includes Marshall County and Lake Texoma.###
03.13.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) today advised counties in Oklahoma seeking reimbursement from FEMA for expenses related to the latest ice storm to contact the Joint Field Office at 405-869-3800. Please be advised this is a new phone number. All agencies that have already helped with the recovery efforts or those that might in the future must file a Request for Public Assistance. The deadlines include the following counties:Cotton County-March 15 Canadian County-March 22Comanche County-March 22 Garvin County-March 22Jefferson County-March 22 Pontotoc County-March 22Tillman County-March 22 Cleveland County-April 3McClain Country-April 3This is the first step in applying for public assistance funds. By filling out this form, an agency's name will be added to the FEMA list and they will be contacted by a FEMA Project Officer to facilitate expenditure reimbursement at a future date.For a copy of this form please call the Joint Field Office at 405-869-3800. It can also be downloaded at: https://www.fema.gov/pdf/library/fema_forms/ff90-049.pdf. The form should be faxed to the Joint Field Office at 405-869-3829. ###
03.12.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Congressman Cole (OK-4) announced deadlines for counties in Oklahoma seeking reimbursement from FEMA for expenses related to the latest ice storm. All agencies that have already helped with the recovery efforts or those that might in the future must file a Request for Public Assistance. The deadlines include the following counties:Cotton County-March 15 Canadian County-March 22Comanche County-March 22 Garvin County-March 22Jefferson County-March 22 Pontotoc County-March 22Tillman County-March 22 Cleveland County-April 3McClain Country-April 3"I urge all parties seeking public assistance after the recent ice storm to apply for reimbursement through FEMA. It is vital for organizations to submit this form soon so that they can be eligible for funding," Congressman Cole said.This is the first step in applying for public assistance funds. By filling out this form, an agency's name will be added to the FEMA list and they will be contacted by a FEMA Project Officer to facilitate expenditure reimbursement at a future date.For a copy of this form please call 405-917-3800. It can also be downloaded at: https://www.fema.gov/pdf/library/fema_forms/ff90-049.pdf. The form should be faxed to the Oklahoma Office of Emergency Management, care of Kathleen Shingledecker at 405-948-1509 by the specific deadline.Agencies will need to keep detailed records of man hours, overtime, equipment use, damages to equipment, etc. in order to receive reimbursement from public assistance funds. Individuals seeking assistance related to the ice storms need to register with FEMA either by calling 1-800-621-FEMA (3362), TTY 1-800-462-7585 or online at www.fema.gov. There is not a deadline for individual filers but they are urged to do so in a timely manner.###
03.09.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.-United States Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) made the following statement regarding the majority party's refusal to give the House Ethics Committee the funding it needs to effectively implement the new house rules. "The majority party ran on a platform to lead the most honest, most open and most ethical Congress in history, and as the very first act of the new Congress, the House overwhelmingly passed an ethics package that calls on members of the Ethics Committee to supervise ethical behavior in the house. Now the majority party is actually refusing to do what they promised by denying the committee the funds they need to carry out their responsibilities.""Instead, Congress has been able to find millions of dollars to fund a climate change panel that, frankly, has no duties, no responsibilities, and no legislative priorities. I believe in common sense solutions that promote clean air and water, and I recognize the importance and urgency of this; however, the House already has a committee, the Energy and Commerce Committee, which has jurisdiction over this issue. I am disappointed that the new majority can find $3.7 million for a new climate change panel, but is unable to find $1.2 million to help uphold the integrity of the house." ###
03.08.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.-U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) encourages interested students from Oklahoma's Fourth District to submit their artwork for the Annual Congressional High School Art Competition and National Exhibition, "An Artistic Discovery". The deadline for entries is April 30th, and all interested students should contact Cole's Norman office. The winning artwork will be displayed in the hallway of the U.S. Capitol."This is an excellent opportunity for high school students to show their talent and abilities as they compete to have their work chosen to be displayed in the United States Capitol," Congressman Cole said. "Oklahoma's Fourth District is full of talented students, and I look forward to displaying this talent to other members of Congress." In addition to having their art displayed in the Capitol, the winner will receive roundtrip airfare to Washington, D.C. courtesy of Southwest Airlines for the dedication ceremony of the art work. The deadline for all entries is April 30, 2007, and all entries must be delivered to one of the following locations by the deadline. For more information, please contact the Norman Office at 405-329-6500.Norman Office2420 Springer Dr. Suite. 120Norman, OK 73069 Lawton Office711 SW D Ave, Suite 201Lawton, OK 73501 Ada Office104 E. 12th StreetAda, OK 74820 Ardmore Chamber410 W MainArdmore, OK 73401###
03.07.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.-U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) today congratulated Jeremiah Baxter on his appointment to the Unites States Air Force Academy. Cole nominated Baxter for the Air Force Academy's 2007 freshman class. "Jeremiah is a prime example of Oklahoma's finest. He has proven himself as a leader not only at Elgin High School, but also in his church and through his extracurricular activities." Congressman Cole said. "His commendable decision to attend the Air Force Academy will make his family and his state very proud. It is an honor to serve Oklahomans like Jeremiah in Congress."At Elgin High School, Baxter was involved in Student Council and Future Farmers of America. He also was an Oklahoma state track qualifier, as well as a member of the football, basketball and cross country teams. He is a member of the National Honor's Society and the Oklahoma Honor's Society. Baxter is the son of Derek and Carrie Baxter. ###
03.06.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.-U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) today introduced legislation that would authorize $300,000 for a water feasibility study to establish additional sources of water for Norman, Midwest City, and Del City, Oklahoma. The study would include possible proposals for drilling additional wells, increasing the storage capacity of Thunderbird Lake, and transporting surplus water from outside sources. "One of the growing concerns in Oklahoma is the lack of water sources," Congressman Cole said. "This water feasibility study is critically needed in order to facilitate the long-term vitality and well-being of the citizens served by the Central Oklahoma Master Conservatory District and of Oklahoma as a whole." "As the population of Central Oklahoma continues to grow, the demands for municipal and industrial water sources will continue to increase," Cole continued. "I am hopeful Congress will pass this legislation to assist in alleviating the shortages caused by Central Oklahoman's growing population and lack of water sources."Specifically this study will examine the most viable options to meet the future needs of the Central Oklahoma Master Conservatory District and the cities they service. These projects include: · The drilling of additional wells.· The implementation of a seasonal pool plan at Thunderbird Lake.· The construction of terminal storage to hold we-weather yield from Thunderbird Lake.· A reallocation of water storage.· The importation of surplus water from sources outside the basin of Thunderbird Lake. The feasibility study will begin no later than one year after the legislation is passed. ###
03.06.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.-U.S. Congressman Tom Cole, a member of the House Armed Service Committee made the following statement regarding recent reports of substandard conditions at an outpatient facility at Walter Reed Army Medical Center. The full Armed Services Committee will meet to hear testimony concerning the medical center on Thursday."Historically, Walter Reed has been known as a first-class medical facility. That is why my colleagues and I were shocked to learn of the squalid conditions that many of our wounded solders have been forced to endure while recovering there. This is an entirely unacceptable situation that must be corrected. I am encouraged to see that the Secretary of Defense has acted swiftly to put in place the personnel and protocols required to immediately address the issue. And I commend the Administration for creating a bipartisan commission to determine where similar problems exist at the other 154 military and VA hospitals across the country and to immediately correct these problems where they do exist." "The brave men and women of the United States Armed Forces make enormous sacrifices for our citizens and our national security. When they are sick or wounded we owe them the very best health care and medical attention possible. Both the Senate and House will hold hearings today on the unacceptable conditions at Walter Reed, and I am confident we will work together to ensure our wounded soldiers are provided with the first-class medical care they deserve. " ###
03.05.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.-U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) has been awarded the Congressional Leadership award by the National Congress of American Indians (NCAI). The award was presented to Congressman Cole for representing his fellow Native Americans in Congress and providing outstanding leadership to Native American communities "I am honored to accept this award from the National Congress of American Indians," Congressman Cole said. "Fighting for the interests of Native Americans has long been one of my highest priorities and I will continue to work hard on their behalf." A fifth generation Oklahoman, Cole is also an enrolled member of the Chickasaw Nation and is currently the only Native American serving in Congress. He was inducted into the Chickasaw Hall of Fame in 2004. Cole's late mother, Helen, is also a member of the Chickasaw Hall of Fame and served as an Oklahoma State Representative, State senator and was the Mayor of Moore, Oklahoma. ###
03.01.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.-U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (R-Oklahoma) today voted to oppose H.R. 800, the so-called "Employee Free Choice Act". This legislation denies American workers the right to a secret ballot when voting on whether or not to form a union. Instead, union leaders would be able to simply gather signed authorizations, also know as card checks, designating the union."I strongly believe that every American should have the right to a secret ballot vote in the workplace," Congressman Cole said. "I opposed mandatory union membership as a condition of employment as well as strong-arm tactics that intimidate or coerce workers into joining a labor union against their will.""For years Americans have fought to expand voting rights and to maintain the sanctity of the secret ballot," Cole continued. "Now, just months after 435 Members of Congress were elected by secret ballot, the new majority has stripped American workers of their right to a secret ballot in the workplace." A recent public opinion survey conducted by McLaughlin & Associates indicates strong opposition to worker intimidation by labor unions or employers. According to the study 80 percent of unionized households themselves say they are opposed to this bill and 75 percent say they would be less likely to vote for a Member of Congress who voted to take away their right to a secret ballot. Unfortunately, H.R. 800 passed the House by a vote of 241 to 185. If this bill passes in the Senate, it is expected to be vetoed by the President.###
02.22.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.-- Congressman Cole announced today that agencies in Cotton County seeking reimbursement from FEMA for expenses related to the latest ice storm must apply for assistance by March 3. All agencies that have already helped with the recovery efforts or those that might in the future must file a Request for Public Assistance by this deadline. This is the first step in applying for public assistance funds. By filling out this form, an agency's name will be added to the FEMA list and they will be contacted by a FEMA Project Officer to facilitate expenditure reimbursement at a future date. "I urge all parties seeking public assistance after the recent ice storm to apply for reimbursement through FEMA. It is vital for organizations to submit this form soon so that they can be eligible for funding," Congressman Cole said. For a copy of this form please call 405-917-3800. It can also be downloaded at: https://www.fema.gov/pdf/library/fema_forms/ff90-049.pdf. The form should be faxed to the Oklahoma Office of Emergency Management, care of Kathleen Shingledecker at 405-948-1509 by March 3. Agencies will need to keep detailed records of man hours, overtime, equipment use, damages to equipment, etc. in order to receive reimbursement from public assistance funds. Individuals seeking assistance related to the ice storms need to register with FEMA either by calling 1-800-621-FEMA (3362), TTY 1-800-462-7585 or online at www.fema.gov. There is not a deadline for individual filers but they are urged to do so in a timely manner.###
02.16.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.-U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) today voted to secure $2 billion in tax cuts for small business owners across America. This legislation ensures that any increase in the minimum wage must be accompanied by tax relief for small businesses who will be forced to pay the costs of a wage increase. "The legislation we passed today is good for the hard working families of Oklahoma as well as the small businesses who employ them," Congressman Cole said. "While this is a good first step towards tax relief for small businesses, further tax relief can and should be added in negotiations with the Senate. The Senate-passed bill includes retroactive tax increases that should be removed before the final bill is signed into law by the President.""It has been, and will continue to be, a priority for me to help improve the standard of living for all Oklahomans. And by coupling an increase in the minimum wage with tax relief for small business owners, we have taken a step in the right direction," Cole continued. "While I do believe this is good legislation, I hope my friends in the Senate will be open to provide even more relief to America's small business owners."###
02.16.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.-U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) today opposed a resolution condemning actions directed by the President and his military advisors regarding the United States' continued involvement in Iraq. This resolution is widely believed to be the first step in an effort to cut off funding and resources for American troops in harm's way. "Congress was faced with a choice to either support or oppose a resolution that does nothing to either win or end the war in Iraq," Congressman Cole said. "Instead of offering a plan of action, the new majority offered a non-binding resolution that encourages our enemies and demoralizes our men and women who are engaged in combat at this very moment. This resolution is the first comprehensive step towards a planned and forced failure in Iraq.""I know that the Global War on Terror is the greatest challenge this nation has faced in a generation," Cole continued. "However, the alternative to showing resolve in Iraq will be disastrous. The consequences that will occur if we deny our troops the resources they need and force them to depart from Iraq before their mission is complete will be catastrophic for Iraq, for our friends, and most importantly, for America." This resolution was voted on after a week of contentious debate. Ultimately the resolution passed by a vote of 246 to 182. There were 17 Republicans that crossed party lines to support the Democrats while 2 Democrats sided with the Republicans. ###
02.14.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.-U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) today secured two commitments critical to the Lawton, Fort Sill and Elgin communities. In a House Armed Services Committee (HASC) hearing on the FY 08 Army budget request, Congressman Cole reiterated his concerns about BRAC funding and the status of the Future Combat Systems Non Line of Sight Cannon (NLOS-C). In response to these questions, HASC Chairman Ike Skelton (D-MO) reassured Congressman Cole that BRAC will be fully addressed in a supplemental spending bill. Similarly, Army Secretary Francis Harvey also assured Cole that the Army remains committed to the NLOS-C. "These two issues are very high priorities for me. They are important to our national security and the well being of the men and women of the armed forces," Congressman Cole said . "I appreciate Secretary Harvey's ongoing commitment to making sure the NLOS-C continues to move forward. This is an important component of the Future Combat System as well as a significant economic impact to Elgin.""I also appreciate Chairman Skelton's recognition of the critical importance of fully funding BRAC. However, I remain deeply concerned about the time frame in which the majority party intends to address this matter," Cole continued. " For the sake of the men and women of the armed services, BRAC needs to be funded as expeditiously as possible. I will continue to work with Chairman Skelton to see that this happens."###
02.05.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.- U.S. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) released the following statement today after the President submitted his FY 2008 budget proposal. "The budget submitted by the President today is one that will help keep our nation prosperous and strong. I especially applaud the President's plan to balance the budget over the next five years without raising taxes. In order to maintain the successful pro-growth policies that have kept our economy strong, it is important that we allow American workers to keep more of their own hard-earned money. And in order to continue protecting our homeland by successfully waging the war against terrorism, it is critical that we provide the Departments of Defense and Homeland Security with the funding they need to successfully complete their respective missions. The budget submitted by the President today accomplishes both of these objectives.""While there are portions of the President's budget with which I disagree, I strongly support the approach to keeping taxes low, America's military strong, and entitlements under control. I believe he has provided an appropriately broad outline from which Members of Congress-from both parties-should be able to develop a budget that serves the best interests of all Americans."###
02.01.2007	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole today pledged today to continue working to ensure that every county in Oklahoma in need of federal assistance from recent severe weather will receive the funds they need. Congressman Cole has personally contacted the Department of Homeland Security and the Federal Emergency Management Agency to ask that Oklahoma's request for additional disaster assistance be expedited as quickly as possible. "Oklahomans are suffering from the devastating effects of recent winter weather, they need help and they need it now. I will be doing everything in my power to help move this process along--quickly. I have already been in contact with the Department of Homeland Security and FEMA and will continue to contact them until Oklahoma's request is fulfilled," Congressman Tom Cole said. "I will keep working this issue until all Oklahoma counties that qualify have been included in the declaration." FEMA announced today the approval of public assistance for four counties in the eastern half of the state: Pittsburg, Muskogee, Delaware and McIntosh. Oklahoma Department of Emergency Management has requested major disaster assistance in the 26 counties. ###
01.11.2007	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole announced today that he will be serving on the Armed Services and Natural Resources Committees in the 110th Congress. He will be returning to Armed Services and Natural Resources as an active and voting member after taking a leave of absence from the Armed Services Committee to serve on the Rules Committee in the 109th Congress. Cole retained his seniority on the Armed Services Committee while serving on the Rules Committee. "I am looking forward to delving back into the issues that fall within the jurisdiction of these two committees. Not only are they important issues to our country, but they are particularly important to Oklahomans," Congressman Tom Cole said. Congressman Cole served on the Armed Services Committee and the Natural Resources Committee as a freshman in the 108th Congress. "The defense and security of our country is the most important responsibility of the government--which makes the job of the Armed Services Committee a significant one. This position also gives me an opportunity to continue to fight for Tinker Air Force Base, Fort Sill and the other military instillations across the state," Congressman Cole said. "I am also very excited to more intensely focus on energy policy and Native American issues while working with my colleagues on the Resources Committee. The Fourth Congressional District is home to many Native Americans and energy producers--so this will be a great fit," Congressman Tom Cole said. "On a personal note, as the only enrolled tribal member in Congress, I take my responsibility to represent the Native American community very seriously. I will scrutinize every piece of legislation to make sure it does not adversely affect Native Americans and tribal governments." ###
01.10.2007	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole made the following comments after the President addressed the nation on the situation in Iraq. "The President tonight announced a new, bold and decisive plan to win in Iraq. The President knows what is at stake, and believes that the efforts he outlined could make a real difference. We should give our Commander in Chief every resource he needs to carry this plan out in its entirety. The risks of failing are too great to give up now. "I have every confidence that the American troops will be able to carry out their portion of this plan--then it is up to the Iraqi people. Measurable and sustainable progress in Iraq will require significant political action by the Iraqi government, the commitment of Iraqi troops and additional Iraqi financial resources. The patience of the American people is limited. The Iraqis must show that they are willing and able to start taking on these responsibilities for themselves." "America needs this plan to work; we need to be successful in Iraq. Let there be no doubt that America will be a safer and more secure country with a democratic and free Iraq. And, Iraq will be a safer and securer if we are successful. The stakes are high, but the consequence of failure is too great not to give the President's plan an chance to succeed." "I am also very pleased that the President included a commitment to permanently increase the size of the military in his speech tonight. This is something I have worked to achieve since first coming to Congress in the Armed Services Committee. A larger military is necessary not only for the short term, but also for the longer term security needs of our country and the defense of freedom around the world."###
01.10.2007	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole supported legislation that would increase the minimum wage while also providing relief for small businesses. This Republican alternative to H.R. 2 failed to garner the support needed to pass in the House. The Democrat bill (H.R. 2) would only raise the minimum wage without providing any relief to the small businesses who stand to suffer the most from such an increase. "The Democratic plan that was offered today does not provide a fair and balanced approach to increasing the minimum wage. Last year, the House passed a comprehensive bill that addressed the needs of the American worker as well as the needs of America's small businesses. I believe the plan we send the President needs to take to that approach," Congressman Cole said. In July 2006, Congress passed H.R. 5970 that increased the minimum wage, extended the Research and Development tax credit and reduced death taxes for family farms and small businesses. Unfortunately this legislation failed to pass in the Senate. "There is a reasonable chance that the Senate will not agree with the Democrats narrow approach. If this is the case, I hope that we will be able to work together to find a good compromise--one that increases the minimum wage, protects small businesses and grows the economy," Congressman Tom Cole said. Independent studies confirm that the Democratic proposal to raise the minimum wage, without incorporating relief for small businesses, could have a negative impact on America's workforce. According to the Hoover Institution, 20 percent (1.6 million) of the nation’s minimum wage workforce could lose their jobs under the unbalanced Democratic plan. ###
01.08.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Tom Cole today announced the names of students from Oklahoma's Fourth Congressional District who have received nominations to the U.S. Air Force, Merchant Marine, Military and Naval Academies' entering class of 2007. The process for receiving a nomination is highly competitive. Nominations are made based on a composite of academic factors including: school records, junior class rank and SAT/ACT scores. They are also selected based on leadership potential, extracurricular activities, athletics, physical fitness and recommendations. The candidates must also complete a personal interview. This criterion ensures a high quality of applicants. "I am honored to nominate each of these individuals to an academy. They each have the potential to win an appointment and complete a successful military career. This group is among Oklahoma's finest. I admire their willingness to serve our country in the military," Congressman Tom Cole said. Listed below are the students who received nominations, their high school, hometowns and academy in which they were nominated. The applicants will now be considered by the respective academy for admission into the school. Some individuals have been, at their request, nominated for more than one academy. United States Air Force AcademyJames Thornton, Midwest City, Carl Albert High SchoolThomas Johnson, Oklahoma City, Midwest City High SchoolJeremiah Baxter, Lawton, Elgin High SchoolRyan Kilway, Oklahoma City, Mount Saint Mary High SchoolKaitlyn Keith, Purcell, Washington High SchoolJohn Chappell, Fletcher, Home SchooledDijoun Newman, Midwest City, Midwest City High SchoolTyler Untrauer, Midwest City, Midwest City High School United States Military AcademyJames Thornton, Midwest City, Carl Albert High SchoolMatthew Bowman, Norman, Norman High School NorthThomas Johnson, Oklahoma City, Midwest City High SchoolTyler Simmons, Goldsby, Washington High SchoolKaitlyn Keith, Purcell, Washington High SchoolReginald Williams, Lawton, Eisenhower High SchoolDaniel Qualk, Kingston, Kingston High SchoolDaniel Titterington, Oklahoma City, Westmoore High SchoolJohn Chappell, Fletcher, Home SchooledDijoun Newman, Midwest City, Midwest City High School United States Merchant Marine AcademyTyler Simmons, Goldsby, Washington High SchoolKaitlyn Keith, Purcell, Washington High SchoolJohn Chappell, Fletcher, Home Schooled United States Naval AcademyJames Thornton, Midwest City, Carl Albert High SchoolThomas Johnson, Oklahoma City, Midwest City High SchoolRyan Kilway, Oklahoma City, Mount Saint Mary High SchoolTyler Simmons, Goldsby, Washington High SchoolKaitlyn Keith, Purcell, Washington High SchoolDaniel Titterington, Oklahoma City, Westmoore High SchoolJohn Chappell, Fletcher, Home SchooledDijoun Newman, Midwest City, Midwest City High SchoolTyler Untrauer, Midwest City, Midwest City High School###
01.05.2007	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole voted against a House rule proposed by the Democrats that will make tax increases more likely and does nothing to help reduce the deficit or reduce government spending. "This plan allows the Democrats to increase spending in some areas by paying for it by finding alternative sources of revenue. Although this could be a good idea in theory, in practice it means tax increases on the American people," Congressman Cole said. The rule proposed by the majority party applies only to spending increases resulting from new legislation, instead of current levels. This rule change does not address current spending which is currently growing at an unsustainable rate. "Today the majority party disguised a 'tax and spend' rule change as a measure that promotes fiscal responsibility. The Democrats claim that this 'pay-as-you-go' rule will help lower spending when, in fact, it only applies to future spending and could stifle future tax cuts or tax cut extensions," Congressman Cole said. "This is bad for the economy and bad for hard working Americans."###
12.08.2006	WASHINGTON – Congressman Cole made the following statement upon hearing about the passing of Jeane Kirkpatrick, a fellow Oklahoman and the first woman to be named U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations: "Today the world lost an influential foreign policy leader, our nation lost a thoughtful advocate and our state lost a friend," Congressman Cole said. "Jeane Kirkpatrick, a proud Oklahoman, was a key player in U.S. foreign affairs for many years. She was both thoughtful and articulate. Her life of service will surely leave a lasting impression on the people she worked with, including many dignitaries and foreign diplomats, and will most certainly have a positive influence on our country's diplomatic efforts and relationships for a long time to come." "Over the years I had the honor to meet with Ambassador Kirkpatrick on numerous occasions. Indeed, she was a favorite featured guest at Oklahoma GOP fundraisers," Cole recalled. "No one spoke more forcefully or effectively for America and no one was a better or prouder ambassador for Oklahoma to the world." "Oklahomans are proud to claim her as one of our own and we are all grateful for her contributions to our country," Congressman Cole said.###
12.08.2006	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole voted today for the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006 (HR 6111) that includes two tax extensions to help spur economic activity on Indian reservations and on former Indian lands. This legislation, which passed in the House, is especially beneficial in Oklahoma. "These two provisions encourage economic growth in our state and create new jobs for all Oklahomans," Congressman Tom Cole said. "The accelerated depreciation provision in particular is worth hundreds of millions of dollars to our state." The first provision (45A) provides tax credits to employers of Native Americans and their spouses. The second provision (168j) provides 40 percent faster depreciation schedules for capital assets placed in service on former Indian lands in Oklahoma. Both provisions are extended through the end of 2007. The Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006 prevents physician payment cuts in 2007 by freezing payment rates for physician services. It also provides a 1.5 percent bonus-incentive payment to physicians who report on quality measures. H.R. 6111 also provides a one-year extension of the process to allow patients to apply for additional physical, occupational, and speech language therapy services if the patients treatment exceeds the annual cap. "I have received many phone calls and letters from Oklahomans who were very concerned about these two provisions and the fact that they were set to expire in January. I am pleased that we were able to address this issue before time ran out," Congressman Cole said. The following provisions were included in the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006. This legislation extends through 2007, provisions which either expired at the end of 2005 or will expire at the end of 2006:· The above-the-line deduction for higher education expenses.· The Research and Development Tax Credit · The treatment of combat pay as earned income for purposes of the earned income credit calculation.· The above-the-line deduction for out-of-pocket teacher classroom expenses.###
12.07.2006	WASHINGTON –Congressman Tom Cole sent the following letter to be read today at the groundbreaking for the U.S.S. Oklahoma Memorial in Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. Because of scheduled votes in the House, Congressman Cole was unable to attend the ceremony. Congressman Cole inserted language into the Defense Authorization Act, passed by Congress last year, requiring the Secretary of the Navy to identify a sight for the U.S.S. Oklahoma Memorial at Pearl Harbor. Funds are being raised privately to build the physical memorial. Dear Survivors of the U.S.S. Oklahoma,I am writing today to express my joy that we are finally able to break ground for the memorial to the fallen from the U.S.S. Oklahoma. This memorial is a long overdue debt owed to those who have given their life in the defense of this country aboard the U.S.S. Oklahoma. My only hope is that this groundbreaking and the eventual dedication of the memorial gives some solace to those family members and survivors of that great battleship. On December 7, 1941, the United States was attacked under the light of dawn while many were still asleep in bed. Over two thousand of our brethren died that day, consumed in a fusillade of fury released by the Empire of Japan. That day, December 7th, was seared into the memory of Americans, a day that would never be forgotten. But, it goes without saying that while December 7th would never be forgotten, the sacrifices of the sailors on the U.S.S. Oklahoma almost were. Were it not for the dedication to the memory of their fallen comrades by the survivors, I sincerely doubt that we would today be memorializing them. In particular, I wish to draw attention to Mr. Paul Goodyear, a tireless persistent advocate on behalf of his comrades' memory. Without his involvement and activism, this would not have occurred. I was happy to be in a position to help by adding the authorizing language to the Defense Authorization bill last year. I stand by ready to assist in any way that I can be of service in the future. With kind regards, Congressman Tom Cole The U.S.S. Oklahoma was at Pearl Harbor when the Japanese attacked on 7 December 1941. The battleship was hit by seven of Japanese Type 91 aerial torpedoes. After it was hit, the port side was torn open and the Oklahoma rolled over and sank to the harbor bottom. The Oklahoma lost 429 crewmembers although many of the men trapped in her upturned hull were cut free through the intense efforts of Sailors and civilian Navy Yard employees.###
12.01.2006	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole announced today that Jill Daugherty has been promoted to District Director and will begin her responsibilities in this new position on December 11, 2006. The District Director manages the three district offices located in Norman, Ada and Lawton. Daugherty will be replacing John Woods who has accepted a position with Lance Cargill, Speaker of the Oklahoma House of Representatives. "I am very excited to have Jill as our District Director--she has proven herself to be a motivated field rep, a smart politician and a strong leader. John Woods has certainly set the bar high and he will be missed in our office, but I know Jill is up for the challenge," Congressman Tom Cole said. "Jill's experience and knowledge of the district will continue to make here an asset to our staff in this new position." Jill Daugherty is currently a field representative for Congressman Cole in the Ada/Ardmore area. She has held this position since Congressman Cole was elected to Congress in 2003. In previous work experience, Daugherty has worked for Governor Keating as a Public Policy Specialist and Cabinet Liaison. "Jill is a great addition to the leadership team within Congressman Cole's office. Her exceptional judgment, experience and character will make this transition an easy one. I look forward to working with her to ensure the office runs smoothly and the individual and collective needs of Oklahoman's Fourth Congressional District are met," Pete Kirkham, Congressman Cole's Chief of Staff, said. Jill Daugherty is a graduate of Oklahoma State University. "Jill is well suited to lead the Congressman's Oklahoma offices. She has the knowledge of the district and the workings of the federal government to lead the staff exceptionally well," John Woods said. ###
11.17.2006	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole was elected today to the House Republican leadership team as Chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee (NRCC). As Chairman of the NRCC, Congressman Cole will set the overall campaign strategy for the Republican Conference."My first duty is and will always be that of a Congressman and to the people of the Fourth District of Oklahoma. I will continue to do the job I was elected to do to the best of my ability--representing the views and interests of my district in Washington," Congressman Cole said. "It was an honor to be elected to the House leadership team as Chairman of the NRCC. In this position, I get to do what I have been doing for a majority of my life--both in Oklahoma and on a national level--advising candidates and consulting campaigns," Congressman Cole said. "This year for the first time in twelve years the Democrats took control of the House--my job will be to make sure we get it back. With the right tools and the right resources I believe we can." "In this new role, I will have a seat at the leadership table and will be able to help mold and shape the agenda of our party over the next several years. While my specific responsibility on the leadership team will be to help the Republicans regain control of Congress, I will also be working with my party to work in a bi-partisan manner to pass legislation that is best for the country." "The Republican Party holds the conservative ideals in which most Oklahomans and most Americans believe--issues like lower taxes, smaller government and a strong national defense. In the next election, we will have the opportunity to defend those ideals and put Republicans back in the majority party."###
10.03.2006	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole released the following statement regarding the Mark Foley situation: "Like all Americans, I was shocked and appalled at the revelations about former Congressman Mark Foley's email and instant message exchanges with House pages. His actions are inexcusable, morally repugnant and have every appearance of being criminal. "The first time I heard about this situation--both the emails and the instant message conversation-- was from news reports on Friday, September 29." "I am glad the U.S. Department of Justice, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and relevant state law enforcement agencies in Florida have begun investigations into the actions of Mr. Foley. If federal and state prosecutors determine he has committed a crime, he should be vigorously prosecuted. "As a member of the House Ethics Committee, I am barred from commenting on cases that are before it. However, I want to make it clear that I take the safety of all children seriously, particularly House pages who have been entrusted into the care of this institution. The actions of every individual involved in this matter must be thoroughly and expeditiously reviewed." ###
09.29.2006	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole made the following statement upon the dedication ceremony of the National Weather Center in Norman: "With great anticipation, the National Weather Center opened its doors today to an exciting future and a promising partnership between the federal government, the University and the private sector. With everyone under the same roof the possibilities are limitless on what can be accomplished. The work to be conducted at the National Weather Center will move us toward a more mature understanding of storms and weather patterns and will surely lead to increased lead time and the saving of lives. I am very excited to see the fruits of this venture." ###
09.29.2006	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole voted today for the Homeland Security Appropriations Conference Report (H.R. 5441) that provides $34.8 billion for security operations and activities. "In this day and age, we have to put defense and national security first and foremost. The Homeland Security bill meets our nation's most urgent needs and priorities by providing funding to secure our borders and enhance port, container and cargo security. It also makes great strides in supporting our first responders and making sure they have the tools and resources they need to keep us safe," Congressman Tom Cole said. The agreement aggressively addresses our most critical homeland security needs, including: border and immigration security; nuclear detection; port, cargo and container security; transportation security; natural disaster preparedness and response; and support to state and local first responders. The conference report on the FYO7 Homeland Security Appropriations bill must now pass in the Senate.###
09.27.2006	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole today voted in favor of the Military Commissions Act of 2006 (H.R. 6166), which passed the House by a vote of 253-168. The Military Commissions Act will help create a system of justice for suspected terrorists that will protect our nation’s intelligence capabilities while giving the suspected terrorists basic legal protections. Congressman Cole led the debate on the U.S. House floor in support of the rule for this legislation. A rule, which sets the terms of debate on the floor, must be passed before the actual piece of legislation is debatable. "This critical legislation ensures that we align the procedural protections for terrorists with our Constitution. In doing so, we are extending unprecedented legal and procedural protections to enemies who provide no protection to their captives and victims and who have neither signed nor operated by the Geneva Conventions. To ensure that terrorist detainees are not released to once again wreak havoc, it was necessary to move this legislation and develop a clear set of standards for military commissions," Congressman Tom Cole said during the debate on the U.S. House floor. The Military Commissions Act includes the compromises worked out among the White House, Senate, and House of Representatives last week. The measure fully conforms with Common Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions, as well as all applicable U.S. laws and international treaty obligations.". . .all of these protections that we will be providing terrorists are the very same protections that they ignore when beheading, mutilating and killing our civilians and servicemen. These terrorists have no respect for the rule of law, they are not signatories of the Geneva Convention, they do not fight in uniforms and they kill innocent civilians and servicemen routinely. Yet we are still willing to grant them some substantive legal protections that I honestly believe go beyond the actual requirements of the Geneva Convention," Congressman Cole stated during the debate of H.R. 6166. The Military Commissions Act establishes a system of military tribunals to try alien enemy combatants who have engaged in or supported terrorist activities. The act ensures that terrorists have basic legal rights, including the right to counsel, the right to obtain evidence and witnesses, and the right to appeal a guilty verdict. Suspected terrorists have the right to be present at all legal proceedings, and no evidence may be presented to the jury unless it is also provided to the accused terrorist. The substantive findings of classified evidence will be admissible in an unclassified form, but the classified evidence itself is protected and is privileged from disclosure to accused terrorists—as well as the panel of jurists—if the disclosure of the information would be detrimental to national security. The act also protects our military and intelligence personnel by codifying violations of Common Article 3 of the Geneva Convention. Currently, the article’s vague provisions are open to a variety of interpretations, potentially rendering American personnel liable to prosecution without just cause. ###
09.22.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole announced today that all Oklahoma High School students are invited to attend Oklahoma Congressional Academy Day to learn about each academy and the application process. The Oklahoma Congressional Academy Day will be held at Rose State College in the Tom Steed Center Auditorium on September 30 from 2-4 p.m. "I would like to encourage anyone who would be interested in attending one of our esteemed military academies to participate in this event," Congressman Cole said. "Not only will you learn more about what each academy has to offer, you will also be able to have one on one discussions with representatives from the academies." There will be a video presentation and a short speech from each of the representatives from the academies and a question and answer session. Also attending the event will be representatives from each Congressional office to help explain and answer questions about the application process.Oklahoma Congressional Academy DaySeptember 30, 20062 p.m.- 4 p.m. Rose State College Tom Steed Center Auditorium6420 SE 15th StreetMidwest City, OK 73110 For more information about the event please contact Amber Pollard at 580-436-5375. ###
09.21.2006	Washington – Rep. Tom Cole this week voted for three major pieces of legislation that will help increase border security and crack down on illegal immigration. The three bills passed by the House were the Community Protection Act of 2006 (H.R. 6094), the Immigration Law Enforcement Act of 2006 (H.R. 6095), and the Border Tunnel Prevention Act of 2006 (H.R. 4830). “These three bills can make an immediate impact in securing our borders and securing our nation. They are common sense bills that will help law enforcement and homeland security officials do their job better, while increasing penalties for those who disobey the law,” said Rep. Tom Cole said. "While working towards comprehensive immigration legislation, we must give our law enforcement, immigration officers and Homeland Security Personnel the resources and the ability to enforce the law." The Community Protection Act (H.R. 6094) ensures that dangerous illegal immigrants, who for a variety of reasons cannot be deported by the Department of Homeland Security, could be detained for renewable periods of six months. This legislation also expedites the removal of alien criminals and toughens laws against alien gang members. The Immigration Law Enforcement Act (H.R. 6095) reaffirms the inherent authority of state and local law enforcement to voluntarily investigate, identify, apprehend, arrest, detain, and transfer to federal custody illegal immigrants. This legislation authorizes an increase in the number of attorneys to prosecute alien smuggling cases. H.R. 6095 also helps close loopholes that have hurt the Department of Homeland Security’s ability to enforce immigration laws. The Border Tunnel Prevention Act (H.R. 4830) enacts criminal penalties of up to 20 years’ imprisonment for individuals who knowingly construct or finance the construction of an unauthorized tunnel across a U.S. international border. In addition, individuals who recklessly permit the construction of such a tunnel on their own property are subject to imprisonment of up to 10 years. Individuals caught using such a tunnel to smuggle aliens, contraband, drugs, weapons, or terrorists are subject to twice the penalty that would have otherwise been imposed. These three bills were developed after House leaders held more than 20 field hearings in the months of July and August to examine the issue of border security and identify ways to improve our nation’s current immigration system. They must now pass in the Senate.###
09.15.2006	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole voted yesterday for the Secure Fence Act of 2006 (H.R. 6061) that passed in the House, 283-138. The Secure Fence Act is an emergency measure that would mandate operational control of all borders and ports through enhanced Border Patrol operations, physical barriers, and state-of-the-art technology along the southwest border, including reinforced fencing. "Securing our borders is a necessary first step in changing our nation's immigration policies. While, we want America to remain a welcoming nation, we also need to ensure those that come here do so legally," Congressman Tom Cole said. "Border security is an essential element of national security. The September 11th anniversary this week reminds us of the importance of keeping track of who is going in and out of our country." The Secure Fence Act of 2006 will harden our nation’s borders to guard against the threat of terrorism and stem the flow of illegal immigration. The Secure Fence Act will:· Provide for over 700 miles of two-layered reinforced fencing along the southwest border with prioritized placement at critical, highly populated areas and requiring an evaluation of infrastructure needs along the northern border;· Mandate that DHS achieve and maintain operational control over the entire border through a “virtual fence” that deploys cameras, ground sensors, Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), and integrated surveillance technology; · Require DHS to provide all necessary authority to border personnel to disable fleeing vehicles, similar to the authority held by the United States Coast Guard for maritime vessels.###
09.15.2006	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole voted yesterday for H. Res. 1000 to increase transparency in the legislative and appropriations process by passing a change to House rules concerning earmark reform. This legislation passed in the House, 245-171. “This House rules change will bring greater transparency to the legislative and appropriations process by ensuring that members of Congress are held accountable for their earmarks. By making these earmarks public, we can help further crack down on wasteful and unnecessary spending," Congressman Tom Cole said. H. Res. 1000 would require that all reported bills and conference reports considered in the House include a list of earmarks in the text or in the committee report and the name of the Member requesting each earmark. Also, when the House and Senate reach agreement on a piece of legislation, a list of any earmarks added to the bill during that negotiation process must be included in the bill before the House votes on it. ###
07.29.2006	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole voted today for H.R. 5970, The Estate Tax and Extension of Tax Relief Act of 2006. This legislation includes extensions of certain business taxes, including extensions of tax provisions known as 45A and 168j that are extremely important to Oklahoma businesses. It also includes permanent estate tax relief and an increase in the minimum wage. "Our economy is growing stronger everyday, but we must continue to implement policies to keep it moving in the right direction. This bill helps create a more business friendly environment by implementing and extending taxes to help businesses grow and to give them the ability to hire additional workers," Congressman Tom Cole said. When fully implemented, H.R. 5970 will include a $5 million per person exemption on inherited estates, indexed for inflation. Estates with a value greater than $5 million and less than $25 million will be taxed at the capital gains rate, currently 15 percent. The capital gains tax rate will increase to 20 percent in 2011 if Congress does not act. Estates with a value greater than $25 million will be taxed at 30 percent when this provision is fully implemented in 2015. “Death should not be a taxable event. The unfair death tax puts many family owned businesses and farms in jeopardy and undermines economic growth," Congressman Cole said. This legislation also includes two tax extensions to help spur economic activity on Indian reservations and on former Indian lands. The first provision (45A) provides tax credits to employers of Native Americans and their spouses. The second provision (168j) provides 40 percent faster depreciation schedules for capital assets placed in service on former Indian lands in Oklahoma. Both provisions are extended through the end of 2007. "The extension of these two provisions will continue to encourage economic growth in our state and create new jobs for all Oklahomans," Congressman Tom Cole said. "The accelerated depreciation provision in particular is worth hundreds of millions of dollars to our state." When fully phased, H.R. 5970 in will increase the minimum wage from $5.15 an hour to $7.25 an hour--a forty percent increase. The minimum wage has not been increased in almost 10 years. Increasing the minimum wage provides a balance to the important tax incentives for family businesses and for the continuity of those businesses across generations that were provided in this bill. "I am pleased that this bill will take care of family businesses, Oklahoma employers and hard working Oklahomans," Congressman Tom Cole said. "Its a fair compromise for all concerned." This legislation must now pass in the Senate. ###
07.29.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Congressman Tom Cole will be leading a group of members to Iraq this weekend to meet with foreign leaders about the progress being made in Iraq and to meet with troops stationed in Baghdad. This will be Congressman Cole's sixth trip to the region in less than four years. "I am looking forward to making another trip to Iraq, especially after the recent installation of Iraq's new freely-elected government. It is always useful and beneficial to view the situation in Iraq first-hand so that I can share the news back home with concerned Oklahomans, families of the soldiers serving there and with my colleagues," Congressman Tom Cole said. "The War on Terror is the most important issue facing our country and I believe it is my responsibility to be as informed as possible about the challenges our country is facing.###
07.29.2006	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole voted yesterday evening for the Pension Protection Act (H.R. 4) which passed in the House. This legislation addresses the problem of under-funded pension plans and takes a balanced approach to comprehensively reforming outdated pension laws. “In recent years we have seen companies abuse the pension system--leaving workers empty handed. People work very hard for years to earn a pension and they deserve for it to be protected," Congressman Tom Cole said. "This legislation makes much needed reforms to ensure workers will receive the pensions they were promised." H.R. 4 ensures employers properly and adequately fund their worker pension plans and requires companies to provide more information to workers about the status of their pension plans. The bill will protect the pensions of employees and retirees and prevent taxpayers from having to bail out the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation because some companies have failed to adequately fund their pension plans. The legislation will also make commonsense modifications to contribution laws to encourage greater personal savings for retirement and other needs. This legislation must now pass in the Senate. ###
07.19.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole voted yesterday in favor of the Marriage Protection Amendment (H.J. Res. 88). A majority of the House (236-187) voted for the legislation, but the amendment failed to garner the two-thirds required for a constitutional amendment. "I believe this legislation is important to protect states rights in the democratic process and ensure a proper exercise of checks and balances. Forty-five states have passed laws or constitutional amendments defining marriage as being between a man and a woman. Polls show that most Americans agree that marriage should be between a man and women, yet some activist judges continue to hijack the process, disregard the views of most Americans and legislate this issue from the bench," Congressman Tom Cole said. The Marriage Protection Amendment provides a national definition of marriage and leaves marriage laws to the state legislators. This legislation prevents unelected, lifetime-appointed Federal judges from striking down the provision of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA), enacted in 1996, that ensures no state shall be required to accept same-sex marriage licenses granted in other states. The Federal Marriage Amendment also adds a layer of protection against court-imposed arrangements other than marriage. This legislation is part of the American Values Agenda, a list of freedom-based legislative initiatives expected to move through the House in the coming weeks and months. The Values Agenda includes legislation such as the Pledge Protection Act, The Public Expression of Religion Act and the Human Cloning Prohibition Act.###
07.19.2006	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole voted today for the Pledge Protection Act (H.R. 2389/S. 1046) that protects our Pledge of Allegiance from radical judges and liberal lawyers who question the constitutionality of the phrase “under God.” "Unfortunately, legislation like this is necessary to stop some activist judges from making laws for the entire country. An overwhelming majority of Americans believe “under God” ought to stay in the pledge, and that schools should be able to recite the pledge. I don't believe a few judges should have the ability to take away that right," Congressman Cole said. The Pledge Protection Act, which Congressman Cole co-sponsored, removes the Pledge from the jurisdiction of Federal courts. State courts are not under the authority of Congress and may still rule on the Pledge. "By passing this legislation the U.S. Congress is exercising their right under the checks and balances system set by the founding fathers. We will not allow a few judges to overrule the American people," Congressman Tom Cole said. "This legislation is important to protect the rights of states like Oklahoma who take pride in the traditional version of the Pledge of Allegiance." The Pledge Protection Act passed today in the House and must now be considered by the Senate.###
07.19.2006	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole released the following statement after voting against overruling the presidential veto of the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2005 (H.R. 810). The vote to override the veto on H.R. 810 failed to garner the two-third majority necessary to pass in the House. "President Bush has done more than any president to advance the efforts of stem cell research and has been very diligent in distinguishing the line between ethical and ethically debatable research. I believe he has made the right decision in vetoing this bill," Congressman Cole said. "While there is a great deal of speculation in the scientific community about the potential of embryonic stem cell research, there is no evidence that these claims are justified. There are many other alternatives that have proven to be just as beneficial, including research on stem cells drawn from umbilical cords and stem cell lines derived from embryos that have already been destroyed. Also, last night I voted for legislation that would have authorized funding for the development of cells with the abilities of embryonic cells without destroying human embryos," Congressman Cole said. "These options represent a balanced solution, stressing the need for scientific advancement while upholding the dignity of human life." "While I don't personally approve of the type of research addressed in this legislation, it is important to note that H.R. 810 does in no way prevent privately sponsored embryonic stem cell research. However, I think it is irresponsible to commit billions of taxpayer dollars to an enterprise that tens of millions of Americans find morally objectionable. " ###
07.17.2006	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole will be calling households in Oklahoma's Fourth Congressional District this week to hold a live conference call about issues being debated in Congress. This tele-town hall meeting will give constituents, who may not be able to attend a town hall meeting in person, the opportunity to voice any opinions or concerns to Congressman Cole over the phone. "I am really looking forward to this additional opportunity to hear from people around Oklahoma's Fourth Congressional District. Holding a tele-town hall meeting will maximize the amount of people I can reach at one time," Congressman Cole said. "The more people I hear from and the more I know about what is happening in their communities, the better Representative I can be." The tele-town hall call will take place on Thursday evening, July 20. Congressman Cole will be using a phone service to call between 30,000-50,000 households. If the phone is answered the person will hear a recorded message from Congressman Cole asking them to stay on the line to join in the conference call. If they choose to do so, they will be automatically connected to the live town hall meeting, where they will have the opportunity to ask questions to Congressman Cole or just listen in to the call. This call will be free of charge to anyone who would like to participate. "My hope is that this will be another effective and beneficial communication tool for me and for the people in my district. During the Town Hall meeting they will get an update on what is happening in Washington and how it affects their lives in Oklahoma. And they can update me on what is happening in Oklahoma and how I can be helpful in Washington," Congressman Cole said. Congressman Cole will also be holding Town Hall meetings across Oklahoma's Fourth Congressional District during August. ###
06.27.2006	Washington, D.C. --In preparation for the celebration of America’s independence on the 4th of July, Representative Tom Cole supported the Freedom to Display the American Flag Act (H.R. 42) that passed by a voice vote today in the House. This legislation would ensure the right of an individual to display the flag of the United States on residential property. “I was alarmed to learn that some homeowners associations and condos prevent Americans from flying the American flag at their home. This legislation gives back this freedom so that every American can make the independent choice to honor our country by displaying the American flag in front of their homes,” Rep. Cole said. The bill states, “A condominium association, cooperative association, or residential real estate management association may not adopt or enforce any policy, or enter into any agreement, that would restrict or prevent a member of the association from displaying the flag of the United States on residential property within the association with respect to which such member has a separate ownership interest or a right to exclusive possession or use.” The bill specifically permits “any reasonable restriction pertaining to the time, place, or manner of displaying the flag of the United States necessary to protect a substantial interest of the condominium association, cooperative association, or residential real estate management association.”###
06.26.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Representative Tom Cole voted for H.R. 4893, the Veterans’ Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2006, which passed in the House today. “I am very proud to have voted for this legislation that provides a cost-of-living adjustment to our veterans. We have a very important responsibility to take care of our veterans and this legislation helps make good on that promise," Congressman Tom Cole said. The Veterans Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act will provide a cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) to disability compensation rates for veterans with service-connected disabilities equal to the adjustment provided under Social Security, which is calculated based upon changes in the Consumer Price Index. The specific amount will be determined later this year by the Social Security Administration and the Veterans Administration. This legislation must now pass in the Senate. Over the past several years, Congress has made great progress on many veterans issues including helping to eliminate the ban on concurrent receipt and eliminating the Social Security offset under the Survivors Benefit Plan. The veterans budget has increased $30 billion in 6 years and veterans medical care funding has risen over 50 percent in the past six years. "We have made great progress, but we still have work to do. I look forward to continuing to work in Congress to improve veterans programs and benefits," Congressman Tom Cole said. ###
06.21.2006	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole voted last night for the FY07 Defense Appropriations bill (H.R. 5631) that includes $7 million for projects in Oklahoma's Fourth Congressional District and language that ensures the full funding of the non-line-of-sight cannon (NLOS-C). Congressman Cole was able to use his position on the powerful Rules Committee to ensure this language was included in the final version of the legislation passed by the House. As the point man for all defense related issues that come before the House Rules Committee, Congressman Cole led the debate on the rule for H.R. 5631. A rule, which sets the terms of debate on the floor, must be passed before the actual piece of legislation is debatable. Congressman Cole protected language in the bill that directs the Department of Defense and the Department of the Army to fully fund NLOS-C, in order for the system to be fielded in 2010. "I am pleased that the House approved language to continue to fully fund the non-line-of-sight cannon. We have a long way to go before we make up for the neglect of our military in the 1990's when we reduced our end strength levels and failed to replace and update weapons systems and bring on new weapons, but this bill does begin to move us forward," Congressman Cole said. Congressman Cole secured the following funds in the FY07 Defense Appropriations bill: · $3.5 million for the Joint Fires and Effects Trainer System at Fort Sill · $1.5 million for enhanced command and control abilities to the High Mobility Artillery Rocket System.· $2 million for a project at Tinker Air Force base to make reliability improvements to existing molecular sieve oxygen generation system (MSOGS) on the B-1B aircraft. "These projects are not only beneficial to the overall effectiveness and capability of the military, but are important to our bases in Oklahoma. I will be working to secure these projects in the final version of this legislation that is sent to the President," Congressman Tom Cole said. H.R. 55631 provides $427.4 billion to meet the needs of our military, including:· $84.9 billion for military personnel· $120.5 billion for operations and maintenance· $81.8 billion for procurement· $75.3 for research and development· $50.0 billion toward the costs of operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. "This legislation accomplishes much in terms of funding our current operations in Iraq and Afghanistan and the global war on terror while setting the military on the path of further transformation to meet the new challenges of the twenty-first century," Congressman Cole said during his speech on the House floor. The FY07 Defense Appropriations bill passed in the House last night and must now be debated in the Senate. ###
06.16.2006	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole announced today that the FY07 Defense Appropriations bill includes $7 million for projects in Oklahoma's Fourth Congressional District. The FY07 Defense Appropriations was approved by the Appropriations Committee this week and now awaits floor action. Congressman Cole requested that these funds be included in the legislation. "These projects are not only beneficial to the overall effectiveness and capability of the military, but are important to our bases in Oklahoma. I am very pleased that this funding was included in the bill that was approved by the full Appropriations Committee. I will be working to ensure the funds will be included in final bill approved by the House," Congressman Tom Cole said. Congressman Tom Cole will be using his position on the powerful Rules Committee to protect these provisions on the floor. He will be managing the debate on the rule for this bill when it reaches the floor. A rule, which sets the terms of debate on the floor, must be passed before the actual piece of legislation is debatable. Congressman Cole was able to secure $3.5 million for the Joint Fires and Effects Trainer System at Fort Sill and $1.5 million for enhanced command and control abilities to the High Mobility Artillery Rocket System. This project will allow the Target Acquisition and sensor systems to communicate directly with the launcher to attack high payoff targets for the commanders, reducing the engagement cycle. Congressman Cole secured $2 million for a project at Tinker Air Force base to make reliability improvements to existing molecular sieve oxygen generation system (MSOGS) on the B-1B aircraft. This system is essential during extended long-range intercontinental combat missions. These upgrades could extend the life of the oxygen generation system to very near the projected life of the B-1B aircraft. ###
06.15.2006	WASHINGTON—Oklahoma Congressman Tom Cole secured $250,000 for the second phase of the Ardmore Community Resources Center in legislation that passed in the House today. This legislation will now be considered by the U.S. Senate where Senator Inhofe is working on this issue. Cole is working with the City of Ardmore and the Ardmore Development Authority to construct a centrally located social resources facility within the now vacant Colvert Dairy Building at 135 South Washington. “Currently, the agencies and organizations providing assistance for the at-risk and elderly are scattered throughout Ardmore. It makes more sense for them to be centrally located and within walking distance of essential municipal and county buildings. When they are under one roof they will be able to share overhead costs and save taxpayer and charitable dollars," Congressman Tom Cole said. "This project is a great investment in the local economy and in downtown Ardmore.” Last year, Congressman Cole and U.S. Senator James Inhofe helped secure $220,000 for the first phase of the Ardmore Community Resources Center. “We’re fortunate to have Congressman Cole leading the charge in the House. Phase 2 funding will allow us to move this project forward. We estimate that the economic return will be significant -- an annual return of at least $1 million to the taxpayers and the creation of 100 jobs. We look forward to Senate action,” Ardmore Development Authority President Wes Stucky said. “Ardmore appreciates the leadership of Congressman Cole. His assistance in securing funds for this project is a critical investment in our long-term planning for downtown Ardmore. In this project, the City Commission envisions a one-stop shop where area residents can easily access available services and move toward more healthy and productive lives," Ardmore Mayor John Moore said. Ardmore leaders are working to make the Commission’s vision a reality by partnering with organizations that will arrange the following services through the new resources center:domestic violence prevention, child care, and battered women sheltering programs student mentoring, mental and physical health counseling, drug and alcohol education job preparation, education, and employment services child-abuse prevention and protection services nutrition, welfare, and food-stamp programs medical, dental, and pharmaceutical care for the needy community and vocational integration programs for the disabled ###
06.13.2006	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole voted today for the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Hurricane Recovery (H.R. 4939) that will provide $94.5 billion for critical defense, military, and hurricane relief priorities. Congressman Tom Cole made the following statement last night on the House floor in support of the rule for H.R. 4939. A rule, which sets the terms of debate on the floor, must be passed before the actual piece of legislation is debatable. "Mr. Speaker, H.R. 4939, the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Hurricane Recovery, 2006 is intended to fully fund our forces overseas and at home. Mr. Speaker, at a time when our sons and daughters are deployed overseas in a wartime environment, this legislation provides critical funds that will be used to conduct ongoing operations in the Global War on Terror. Unlike other wars, this war is one where terrorists are having a critical impact, and one that requires the perpetual vigilance of not only our forces, but the American people. To our forces' credit, just last week, they were successful in killing Abu Mus'ab Al-Zarqawi, one of the critical players among the non-state terrorist actors. This success required professionalism, perseverance and tenacity -- qualities our military has in abundance.It is worth noting that if we were not in Iraq, we would have never killed Al-Zarqawi. However, it is also fair to observe that Al-Zarqawi was dedicated to pursuing and killing Americans around the globe. If we had not found him, he surely would have found and attacked us.Mr. Speaker, the Iraqis also deserve to be commended for their efforts in this struggle. During this war they have held three elections, written a constitution and, just last week, formed a permanent government. They played a key part in locating Al-Zarqawi and are assuming an increasing role in defending their own country. They are watching what we do here today. They require and request our continued support as they move forward in their efforts to build a new and better Iraq. The passage of this rule and the underlying legislation is an important sign that this country and this Congress will keep its commitment to Iraq as it strives to create a future of hope and promise.But, Mr. Speaker, real challenges remain, and it is these challenges that require our action today. Our military, our sons and daughters, need these funds immediately. They require our support. We must give it to them.Mr. Speaker, I am aware that some may question the 'cost' of the Global War on Terror. Some may question its worth. But, Mr. Speaker, today is not September 10th of 2001. We know what terrorists are capable of doing. Our enemies have chosen to make Iraq the central theater in the Global War on Terror. They seek to do to us what their predecessors did to the former Soviet Union in Afghanistan. That is a triumph which we must deny our enemies -- for our own sake as well as that of the Iraqi people. This war is a generational test, one that will affect not only our children and grandchildren, but our great-grandchildren as well. We cannot fail in our objectives. We chose this path as a Congress in 2002, and now we must stay on the hard road to its completion. We must support our forces now, by passing this rule and the underlying legislation. Mr. Speaker, many may wish to raise extraneous policy issues in this debate. Some may want to discuss issues that, however important, are superfluous to the question at hand. Frankly, I welcome the debate today and later this week. However, now is the time to support our sons and daughters deployed overseas on the field of battle. Now is the time to accept the true challenges we face. We can do so by passing this rule and the underlying legislation.Before I close, Mr. Speaker, I wish to note that this Supplemental has another purpose. It contains funds that are badly needed by our fellow Americans on the Gulf Coast who are still recovering from the devastating effects of Hurricane Katrina and Rita. Our fellow citizens need and deserve our support. I am proud we are responding as we have twice before. This, like the War on Terror, is a national priority. These twin issues -- the War on Terror and the recovery of the Gulf Coast -- demand and will receive resources from the Congress on a bipartisan basis. However, I am pleased to note that in our negotiation with the other body, our conferees have kept their focus on the challenges at hand. They have not allowed the generous impulses that underlay this legislation to be perverted into a reckless spending spree on other items. For that, they are to be commended. They have given us a bill that meets the needs at hand yet remains fiscally responsible. That is no small accomplishment. This legislation deserves support from all our members.Mr. Speaker, to that end, I urge support for the rule and the underlying bill, and I reserve the balance of my time. ###
06.08.2006	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole voted for the Refinery Permit Process Scheduling Act (H.R. 5254) that will encourage the development of new domestic refineries by streamlining the permit process and identifying closed military bases that would be suitable for building refineries. H.R. 5254 passed in the House yesterday. "While some plants in the United States have expanded, no new refineries have been built in the past 30 years. Building new refineries will decrease our dependence on foreign supplies and will also help stabilize energy prices for consumers," Congressman Cole said. There are 148 operating refineries in the United States, down from 324 in 1981. Total capacity at operating refineries is roughly 17 million barrels per day, while total United States demand averages nearly 21 million barrels per day. This growing gap is met by an increasing amount of imports of refined products from foreign sources. “This long-overdue, environmentally sound legislation removes red tape preventing the construction of new refineries to help put our country on the path to energy independence," Congressman Tom Cole said. This bill would establish a federal coordinator who will convene all the players in all federal and state government agencies responsible for issuing refinery permits to help expedite the permit process. H.R. 5254 would give the Environmental Protection Agency priority in the scheduling coordination to preserve all environmental standards. It would also direct the President to identify at least three closed military bases as suitable sites for new refineries, one of which must be designated for biofuel refining. ###
06.08.2006	WASHINGTON –Congressman Cole made the following statement upon the death of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi. "The death of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, the leader of al Qaeda in Iraq and the most visible face of the insurgency in Iraq, is an important victory for American, Iraqi and coalition forces. It is also a significant success for the new, freely-elected Iraqi government and the Iraqi people. "I am particularly pleased that the critical information that led American Special Forces to al-Zarqawi came from Iraqi citizens and Iraqi security forces. The Iraqi people, their elected representatives and the brave men and women who serve in the Iraqi police and armed forces deserve enormous credit for their willingness to work every day to bring peace and freedom to their nation. "Today's success also is a testament to America's armed forces and intelligence services. Their dedication to duty and their focus on their mission will, I am confident, lead us to victory in Iraq and the broader War on Terror. I am grateful for their willingness to serve and to defend America." ###
06.07.2006	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole voted for legislation today that would increase the fines for broadcasting indecent material by ten times. The Broadcast Decency Enforcement Act (S. 193) would increase the fine levied against broadcasters by the Federal Communications Commission from $32,500 per violation to $325,000 per violation. This bill passed in the House today. "We must hold broadcasters accountable for what they show on television, especially during family friendly hours when many children are watching," Congressman Cole said. "The fine increases in this bill will help further discourage broadcasters from airing indecent material." The Broadcast Decency Enforcement Act has already passed in the Senate and will now be sent to the President. This legislation only applies to broadcast television and radio and not programming transmitted via cable or satellite. ###
05.26.2006	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole announced today that the U.S. Treasury Department will repeal the federal excise tax on long-distance telephone service. The Internal Revenue Service will issue refunds of tax on long-distance service for the past three years. Taxpayers will be able to apply for refunds on their 2006 tax forms, to be filed in 2007. "The repeal of the federal excise tax is good news for all American taxpayers who have a monthly long distance bill. This tax was way behind the times--dating back to the Spanish American War," Congressman Tom Cole said. "I hope that we will be able to make even more progress on updating and simplifying our tax code this year in Congress." The federal excise tax on long-distance telephone service was established in 1898 as a “luxury” tax on wealthy Americans who owned telephones. The IRS will be refunding about $15 billion of telephone taxes collected from American taxpayers over the last three years. Following is information from the IRS regarding these tax refunds: · No immediate action is required by taxpayers. · Refunds will be a part of 2006 tax returns filed in 2007. · Refund claims will cover all excise tax paid on long-distance service over the last three years (time allowed given statute of limitations). Interest will be paid on refunds. · The IRS is working on a simplified method for individuals to use to claim a refund on their 2006 tax returns. · Refunds will not include tax paid on local telephone service, which was not involved in the litigation by the Department of Justice.###
05.25.2006	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole voted for the Energy and Water Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (H.R. 5427) that designates $750,000 to continue a study of the Arbuckle-Simpson Aquifer. Congressman Cole requested that these funds be included in the bill. "These funds will be used to determine how this water source should be utilized now and in the future. As the population and the demand for water in Oklahoma are increasing, the need for increased management and conservation tools becomes more important. I am very pleased these funds were included in the bill and will be working to ensure they are included in the final version of the legislation," Congressman Tom Cole said. The Arbuckle-Simpson Aquifer under lies approximately 500 square miles of south-central Oklahoma near Sulphur and Davis. This aquifer is the principal source of water for the cites of Ada and Sulphur and is the source of water for a number of important springs and streams in the region, including those associated with the Chickasaw National Recreational Area and the Chickasaw Nation. H.R. 5427 passed in the House and must now be debated in the Senate. ###
05.25.2006	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole voted last night for the Energy and Water Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (H.R. 5427) that designates $344,000 for the Norman Project. Congressman Cole requested these funds be included in the bill. "I am very pleased these funds were included in the bill and will be working to ensure they are included in the final version of the legislation," Congressman Tom Cole said. The Norman Project is located in the central Oklahoma counties of Cleveland and Oklahoma. Project facilities consist of Norman Dam and Lake Thunderbird located on Little River east of Norman, the Norman Pipeline, Midwest City Pipeline/Del City Pipeline system and two pumping plants. The purpose of this project is to research and develop non-agricultural benefits of the water system such as hydropower and water for municipal and industrial uses. H.R. 5427 passed in the House and must now be debated in the Senate. ###
05.24.2006	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole voted last night for the Agriculture appropriations bill for FY 2007 (H.R. 5384) to support our nation’s farmers and ranchers and provide needed funding for important nutrition programs and public health research. This legislation also included funding for the Boll Weevil Eradiation Program for states, including Oklahoma, whose crops have been infested with boll weevils. H.R. 5384 also includes funding for the Rural Water Associations Circuit Rider grant and loan program which is especially important to rural water systems in Oklahoma. Congressman Cole, along with the Oklahoma delegation, sent a letter to the committee to support these two programs. “Oklahoma's farmers and ranchers have had a particularly difficult season this year. Because of spending constraints, this legislation does not take care of every problem facing them, but I believe it does provide some help," Congressman Tom Cole said. "I will be working this year to help find other ways to meet the specific needs of farmers, ranchers and others in rural Oklahoma." The Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2007 provides funding for the Farm Service Agency, agricultural research, conservation operations and for the Rural Community Advancement Program. The bill also provides critical funding for food and safety programs, the Food and Drug Administration, Child Nutrition Programs and Avian Flu/Pandemic countermeasures and preparedness. ###
05.24.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C.-- Congressman Tom Cole is pleased to announce Hillary Shipley of Elmore City as the winner of the Twenty-Fifth Congressional High School Art Competition and National Exhibition, "An Artistic Discovery." The artwork, entitled "Grandma's House," was chosen from many pieces submitted by young artists from Oklahoma's Fourth Congressional District. "I'm so proud to have such talented and dedicated students in Oklahoma," said Congressman Tom Cole. "Hillary is clearly blessed with the gift of artistic creativity. I am happy to showcase her artwork in the Capitol." The artwork, "Grandma's House," was chosen by a panel of judges in Norman. The piece will hang as part of a national exhibition in the tunnel between the U.S. Capitol and the Cannon House Office Building for one year. Shipley is invited to attend a ceremony honoring the winners and their artwork in Washington, D.C. later this summer. ###
05.18.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Tom Cole voted today for a budget resolution that nearly freezes non-security discretionary spending and provides for a savings of $6.8 billion in mandatory spending over five years. The Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for FY 2007 (H. Con. Res. 376) passed in the House today, 218-210. Congressman Cole originally voted for a budget offered by the Republican Study Committee that balances the budget by FY 2011 and proposes over $650 billion in savings over five years. When this budget failed to gain the support to pass in the House, he voted for H. Con. Res. 376. "The bill passed today takes a very realistic approach to the budget by strengthening our nation's most critical programs, continuing successful economic policies, holding down spending, reforming government programs and reducing the deficit," Congressman Cole said. "It also takes a very responsible approach by budgeting for unforeseen emergencies and setting aside $50 billion for future war costs." This legislation holds the line on discretionary spending, maintaining President Bush’s spending cap of $873 billion. The budget saves $6.8 billion in mandatory spending to reduce the deficit by highlighting common sense reforms that make programs more effective and efficient on behalf of American taxpayers. The proposal includes reforms to ensure Congress better budgets for emergencies through a “rainy day” fund, providing $4.3 billion in budget authority to anticipate potential natural disasters. It also includes a $50 billion placeholder for war costs should additional supplemental funding be necessary. "One of the most important parts of this bill is the effort to control mandatory spending that is currently growing faster than inflation and far beyond our means to sustain it," Congressman Cole added "We must continue to confront mandatory spending to make any substantial progress in reducing the deficit." The Senate has already passed a budget. The differences between the Senate and House versions will now be ironed out in a conference committee. ###
05.15.2006	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole made the following statement this evening after the President's address to the nation: "The President's remarks tonight show that he understands that the situation on our borders is serious. His proposal with respect to placing National Guard units on the southern border is not a permanent fix, but it buys us time to put forth a comprehensive, long-term solution. It is now up to Congress to pass immigration legislation that will increase border security, implement the new technologies which the President referred to and create additional physical barriers to stop the illegal immigrants that cross our border every day." "It is important to remember that in the end dealing with illegal immigration will require a multi-faceted approach. We already ask so much of our National Guard--putting them on the borders permanently would be an inappropriate use of the Guard and would place an even greater strain on these dedicated men and women." "Above all else, just as the President reiterated tonight, our country is and will always be open and accepting to any individual that wishes to come here by following the rules and abiding by the law. Border security is the first step to a comprehensive immigration policy. As the President noted, we must also enforce existing laws and then put into effect a policy for the illegal immigrants that are already living inside our borders." "I applaud the President for this decisive action. I believe he laid out the general principles necessary to deal with this important national challenge. I will be working with members of Congress on both sides of the isle to come together and pass a comprehensive border security and immigration bill." ###
05.12.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Tom Cole today congratulated Jonathan Bubier on his appointment to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Cole nominated Bubier to the Air Force Academy entering class of 2006. "I am pleased that Jonathan Bubier will have the opportunity to attend the Air Force Academy. This is truly a great honor. His commendable decision to attend an academy will make his family and state very proud," Congressman Cole said. Jonathan Bubier is the son of Scott and Dolores Bubier of Oklahoma City. ###
05.11.2006	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole voted today for the FY07 Defense Authorization bill (H.R. 5122) that will ensure our servicemen and women have every tool they need to fight and win the War on Terror. This legislation also gives funding authorization for key Oklahoma projects associated with Tinker Air Force Base and Fort Sill in Lawton. Congressman Cole, through his position on the powerful Rules Committee, was able to add language into the bill that will exclude the non-line of sight cannon from any funding cuts authorized for the Future Combat Systems program. He was also able to add language in the bill during the Rules Committee meeting to fund the Joint Fires and Effects Trainer System (JFETS). "I am very pleased I was able to add this language into the bill that could help prevent further delays to the production of the non-line-of-sight cannon. I believe it is time to move forward on this weapon system and will be working to ensure this language is included in the final version of this legislation," Congressman Tom Cole said. "I will also be working to ensure the projects for bases in Oklahoma will be included in the final bill." As the point man for all defense related issues that come before the Rules Committee, the Congressman is in a unique position to advocate for Oklahoma-specific priorities.The following projects were requested by Congressman Cole and authorized by the House:$8 million for an electrical substation at Tinker Air Force Base. The current substation at Tinker has had numerous failures associated with its operation resulting in electrical outages and downtime. A new substation would prevent future interruption to their power grid. $5 million for Fire/Trainer II/Joint Fires and Effects Trainer System. This will continue the funding stream for the Joint Fires and Effects Trainer System operations at Fort Sill. $4.5 million for a B-1B molecular sieve oxygen generation system (MSOGS) reliability improvement program at Tinker Air Force Base. These funds would be used to produce MSOGS to provide aircrew with unlimited breathing gas that is essential during extended long-range combat missions $2.5 million for High Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems (HIMARS) Enhanced Command and Control at Fort Sill. These funds would insert Command and Control capabilities on the HIMARS launcher platform and add a long range communication capability to the launcher vehicle. Congressman Cole offered language during the Armed Services mark-up of the bill to ensure Tinker Air Force base and other air depots across the country are able to secure capitol funds to help them update and modernize their facilities The FY07 Defense Authorization bill authorizes an additional $50 billion in supplemental funding to support the war on terror’s operational costs, personnel expenses and the procurement of new equipment. It authorizes additional funding for force protection including up-armored humvees, humvee improvised explosive device (IED) protection kits and gunner protection kits, IED jammers and state-of-the-art body armor. FY recommends an additional increase of 30,000 personnel for the Army and 5,000 personnel for the Marine Corps and an increase for the Army National Guard by 17,100 over the original budget request. H.R. 5122 provides a 2.7% pay raise for members of the armed forces. "This legislation makes every effort to give our troops what they need while they are the front lines protecting our country," Congressman Cole said. "It also makes great strides to protect health care for our service men and women." The Defense Authorization bill rejects the Department of Defense’s proposed fee increases retirees must pay under the TRICARE standard health program and zeroes out co-pays for generic and formulary mail order prescriptions. To ensure that a comprehensive policy and fiscal basis for sustaining future military health care benefits are in place, H.R. 5122 recommends an independent review by a task force, the Government Accountability Office and the Congressional Budget Office (CBO). H.R. 5122 also adds $735 million to the Defense Health Program to restore funding cuts included in the DOD budget request in anticipation of increased beneficiary cost shares, which as mentioned, H.R. 5122 prohibits. ###
05.10.2006	WASHINGTON –On the heels of thirty one consecutive months of uninterrupted job growth, Congressman Cole voted today to avert tax hikes on the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT), capital gain dividends and the extension of increased small business expensing. The Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act of 2005 will prevent a tax increase on small business owners, seniors and married couples. "The economy is growing; over two million jobs have been created in the last year. I believe these good economic indicators are a result of tax incentives that give more money back to hard working Americans and allow businesses to grow and hire additional workers. This legislation extends tax cuts that are vital to the continued growth of our economy," Congressman Cole said. Over 220,000 Oklahomans will benefit from reduced tax rates on capital gains and corporate dividends proposed in this bill. "An overwhelming majority, 63 percent, of Oklahoma's believe that these tax cuts are helping the economy according to a poll by Rasmussen Report. We must continue to implement pro-growth policies that will keep our economy going in the right direction," added Rep. Tom Cole. The Senate is also expected to pass this legislation this week. The legislation will then be sent to the President. The Tax Reconciliation Bill will:Ø Extend capitol gain/dividend for an additional two years. Mutual fund holders who designate part of its dividends as capitol gain distribution will benefit from the provision. Ø Prevent an increase on the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) for an additional year. AMT is an additional tax some people have to pay on top of the regular income tax, especially two parent families who live in high-taxed states. Ø Extend Section 179 of the Tax Code providing for continued Small Business expensing. Under current law, small businesses may expense up to $100,000 of investments in depreciable assets, without action, the expensing limit would have declined to $25,000. Ø Dividends: Extends for two years the lower tax rate on dividend income, thus preventing a $13 billion tax increase over the next four years. Fifty percent of taxpaying senior citizens will benefit from this extension. Ø Capital Gains: Extends for two years the lower tax rate on capital gains income, thus preventing a $7 billion tax increase over the next four years. Nearly 1 in 3 senior citizens will benefit from this tax relief. ###
05.09.2006	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole announced today that the House Armed Services Committee authorized $5.7 million for an electrical substation at Tinker Air Force Base during the full committee mark-up of the FY07 Defense Authorization Bill. During this mark-up, the committee also approved language offered by Congressman Cole to require at least six percent of the total revenue from public depots to be reinvested into a working capitol fund for modernization efforts. "The bill reported out of full committee mark-up, includes important language to ensure Tinker Air Force base and other air depots across the country are able to secure capitol funds to help them update and modernize their facilities," Congressman Cole said. "Senator Inhofe and I have been working to ensure this provision is included in both the House and Senate version of the defense authorization bill. These funds will help preserve and protect the programs and facilities that made Tinker so strong in this year's BRAC round." Because the current substation at Tinker has had numerous failures associated with its operation resulting in electrical outages and downtime, Congressman Cole requested funds for a new substation to serve the Tinker area. "Tinker has a vital role within the Air Force and within the military as a whole--it is important to provide them with every resource necessary for them to do their job. This project will provide them with a critically needed electrical substation to prevent any interruption to their power grid," Rep. Cole said. "I am very pleased these provisions were included in the bill reported out of committee. There is still a long way to go before this bill is signed into law. I will be working within the Rules Committee to ensure these provisions will be protected when the bill reaches the House floor," Congressman Cole said. The House is expected to vote on the FY06 Defense Authorization this week. ###
05.04.2006	WASHINGTON – Recognizing the increased necessity to carefully monitor the goods and cargo passing through our country’s ports of entry, Congressman Tom Cole voted today for the Security and Accountability for Every Port (SAFE) Act. This bipartisan bill will strengthen security at our nation’s major ports and help prevent terrorists from harming our country. “The events of September 11, 2001 showed us that our nation has vulnerabilities. It is our responsibility to realize those vulnerabilities and do everything possible to secure them. Today’s bill will toughen the security at our nation’s ports, eliminating weaknesses in our system and making it more difficult for terrorists to use our ports against us," Rep Tom Cole said. This legislation protects our ports by enhancing security at each port, detecting and tracking packages en route to the United States and by working to prevent threats before from even leaving their country of origin. "This three-pronged approach will help us detect threats to our country before they get through our borders. Ensuring the security and safety of our nation’s ports of entry is critical to preventing another attack on our country," Rep. Tom Cole said. "More needs to be done in the area of port security and I expect Congress to continue to work on this issue in coming sessions. However, this bill is a good start and deserves to be enacted," Congressman Tom Cole said. This legislation provides $400 million per year to strengthen port security to prevent terrorist attacks and sets up training programs to ensure that our first responders, longshoremen and port management possess the tools they need to protect our ports. ###
05.03.2006	Washington, D.C.--Congressman Cole voted for two pieces of legislation today that will help reign in rising energy prices. The Refinery Permit Process Schedule Act passed with bi-partisan support in the House today. The Federal Energy Price Protection Act gained a majority of the vote but failed to garner a two-third majority that is necessary to pass legislation under an expedited process known as suspension of the rules. "Gasoline prices are rising and demand is increasing, but meanwhile, no new refinery has been built in the United States in the past 30 years. If we expect gasoline to remain affordable, we must allow for additional refinery capacity," Rep. Tom Cole said. "One of the reasons additional refineries haven't been built is due, in part, to a permitting process that is overly burdensome. The refinery bill that was debated in the House today would have helped resolve this problem." The Refinery Permit Process Schedule Act will help expand refinery capacity in the U.S. by establishing a federal coordinator who will work with every government agency responsible for issuing permits so that decisions on permits can move quickly and efficiently. This legislation will help eliminate needless bureaucratic delay in the permitting process for new or expanded gasoline, biofuel or distillate-processing facilities. It also directs the president to identify at least three closed military bases as suitable sites for new refineries, one of which must be designated for biofuel refining. "To help reduce our dangerous dependence on foreign oil, we must increase domestic production. Building new refineries is a big part of that goal," Rep. Tom Cole said. The Federal Energy Price Protection Act, which prohibits and penalizes price gouging of gasoline, diesel fuel, crude oil, home heating oil and biofuels. This legislation directs the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to define “price gouging,” within six months of enactment. It provides for strong civil enforcement by the FTC and by states’ attorneys general, and criminal enforcement by the U.S. attorney general and the Department of Justice. The Federal Energy Price Protection Act also lays out both civil and criminal penalties for price gouging. ###
05.03.2006	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tom Cole voted today for the Lobbying Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006 (H.R. 4975), the most comprehensive lobbying reform bill passed in over a decade. This legislation has already passed in the Senate and will now go to a conference committee between the House and the Senate. "Today the House approved a lobby reform package that makes a genuine effort to increase transparency and accountability in congressional activities and restore the confidence of the American people in their elected representatives. This important piece of legislation will hold members of Congress and those they work with to the highest standards while ensuring that Americans can still effectively petition the government – a constitutionally protected right,” Congressman Cole said. "The Lobbying Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006 is comprehensive bill that is the result of the input from members on both sides of the aisle and outside experts. Five House committees worked to ensure this bill is both legitimate and effective. It may not be perfect, but it is a good start," Congressman Cole said. Congressman Cole offered an amendment on the House floor to the lobby reform bill that will require the Ethics Committee to review and approve each privately funded trip request by a two-thirds vote of its committee members. The amendment also requires the ethics committee to formally review current House travel procedures and develop a permanent plan governing future private travel by June 15, 2006. "I believe this amendment strikes a good balance by increasing the scrutiny of any privately funded trip, while still allowing members to attend trips that are educational or pertain to their individual districts," Congressman Tom Cole said. The Lobbying Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006: Strengthens lobbyist disclosure requirements and the frequency of filings by creating an online database at the fingertips of the American people. Requires members of Congress to forfeit retirement benefits if convicted of bribery, including conspiracy charges Ensures that members cannot condition official acts based on the employment decision of an outside entity or private business Seeks to curtail the number of Member appropriation projects by enhancing transparency. The new system for appropriation requests is already working. Appropriation requests are down 37% from last year. ###
04.27.2006	WASHINGTON – Representative Tom Cole voted yesterday for a comprehensive bill that will give federal intelligence gathering agencies the resources to help them more effectively fight and win the War on Terror. The Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (H.R. 5020) passed in the House today. “This legislation will be a great boost for federal intelligence agencies that were neglected after the Cold War, suffering steep cuts during the 1990's," Congressman Cole said. "We must give our intelligence personnel every tool necessary to root out terrorists and disrupt terror plots against our country and other U.S. interests. The intelligence community is vital to the ongoing War on Terrorism." The Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 will:Boost human intelligence capabilities and the ability to conduct unilateral operations. Authorize funding for additional personnel, improved human intelligence training and funding for analytical tools and resources. Strengthen our overall capabilities and gives America the modern, lean, agile and aggressive Intelligence Community it needs. Improve coordination between the Intelligence Community and military to increase our efforts and effectiveness in the Global War on Terror Increase House Intelligence and Armed Services coordination to advance common systems and capabilities to fight the Global War on Terror. ###
04.12.2006	Washington DC-Congressman Tom Cole announced today the nomination of Joy M. Lomheim from Newalla, Oklahoma to the US Naval Academy. Lomheim will be graduating from the Oklahoma School of Science and Math this spring. "Receiving an academy appointment is a great honor. Joy Lomheim, through academics and sports, has shown dedication and character. Her commendable decision to attend an academy will make her family and her state very proud," Congressman Tom Cole said. Lomheim is the daughter of Linda and Douglass Lomheim of Newalla. ###
04.12.2006	Washington DC-Congressman Tom Cole announced today the nomination of Joy M. Lomheim from Newalla, Oklahoma to the US Naval Academy. Lomheim will be graduating from the Oklahoma School of Science and Math this spring. "Receiving an academy appointment is a great honor. Joy Lomheim, through academics and sports, has shown dedication and character. Her commendable decision to attend an academy will make her family and her state very proud," Congressman Tom Cole said. Lomheim is the daughter of Linda and Douglass Lomheim of Newalla. ###
04.03.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Rep. Tom Cole announced today that the Disaster Declaration for Stephens and Jefferson Counties has been expanded to include categories A through G. This will allow for additional federal assistance for debris removal, utility plants and damaged roads and bridges, amongst other categories of assistance. "Stephens and Jefferson Counties are now eligible to receive additional types of disaster assistance. This extra help is vital in the aftermath of the wildfires that recently plagued this area," Congressman Cole said. "I encourage anyone who was affected by the wild fires to contact their local FEMA caseworker or the Oklahoma Office of Emergency Management to file for assistance." Disaster Declarations were also expanded in Beaver and Okfuskee Counties. For more information please Congressman Cole's office at 405-329-6500. ###
03.29.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Cole used his position on the powerful Rules Committee last night to protect TRIO programs in Oklahoma. He was able to insert language into the manager's amendment to delete the ten percent novice applicant provision that was included in the College Access and Opportunity Act of 2005 (H.R. 609). The manager's amendment passed in the House today. "This provision would adversely affect TRIO programs in Oklahoma by redirecting funds from existing programs to a new program. TRIO programs have already proved their effectiveness. I do not see any reason to fix something that isn't broken," Congressman Cole said. "Adding this language into the manager's amendment nearly guarantees it will be included in the final legislation that passes in the House." The primary purpose of the Federal TRIO programs is to help prepare students from disadvantaged backgrounds for higher education. TRIO is geared toward low-income students whose parents did not choose to attend college. The program provides students with a long list of services that may not traditionally be offered by their high schools, including academic advice and assistance, tutorial services, help with college admission and financial aid applications, mentoring and counseling. "My support for TRIO programs is stronger than I can state. East Central University is very dependent on this program and the services that it offers to our constituency. Congressman Cole has been a great advocate on this issue--he really understands how important this is to Oklahomans," Dr. Bill Cole, President of East Central University, said. In Oklahoma's Fourth Congressional District, there are 18 TRIO programs that have served almost 6,000 students. "Oklahoma has successfully utilized TRIO to help students, who otherwise might not have the opportunity, attend college. I will continue to work to ensure the 'novice provision' does not take funds away from the existing program," Congressman Tom Cole said. The House will be debating the College Access and Opportunity Act of 2005 for the balance of the week. ###
03.20.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Tom Cole today congratulated Michael M. Chambers on his appointment to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Cole nominated Chambers to the U.S. Air Force Academy entering class of 2006. "Michael Chambers is one of Oklahoma's bright and talented students. His strong dedication to our country deserves our respect and support. I congratulate him on his appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy and wish him the best of luck in his military career." Michael Chambers is the son of William and Crystal Chambers of Chickasha, Oklahoma. He attended Oklahoma School of Science and Math in Oklahoma City. Chambers also received an appointment to the Naval Academy earlier this year. ###
03.08.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Tom Cole announced that beginning this week fire departments can begin to apply for Federal Assistance to Firefighters Grants. Applications for these grants, administered by the Department of Homeland Security, will be accepted from March 6, 2006 until April 7, 2006. "Firefighters in Oklahoma have been especially busy over the past few months helping to contain the wildfires that have been ravaging our state. These grants will help them purchase equipment and other resources to help them do their job and keep us safe," Congressman Tom Cole said. "I encourage all eligible departments to apply for these federal funds." The application can be downloaded at www.firegrantsupport.com. Fire departments that have questions regarding this grant opportunity should contact the Help Desk at 1-866-274-0960 or at firegrants@dhs.gov. An online tutorial is available for download at www.firegrantsupport.com. This tutorial aids applicants in drafting successful presentations and provides links to other helpful information. The AFG program assists rural, urban and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. In addition the AFG accepts applications from nonaffiliated EMS organizations seeking funding for the same activities for which fire departments are also eligible to apply. Through the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act of 2006, Congress provided $648 million for the Assistance to Firefighters Grants. ###
03.08.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Representative Tom Cole voted last night for the USA PATRIOT and Terrorism Prevention Reauthorization Act, S. 2711, that will help law enforcement personnel keep our country safe from terrorist threats. This legislation passed in the House, 280-138. “The USA Patriot Act is a vital tool for law enforcement as they work together to track and root out terrorists that are living within our borders," Congressman Tom Cole said. “I was proud to vote for this legislation that provides our law enforcement with the leeway to take necessary and reasonable precautions to safeguard our country." The USA PATRIOT and Terrorism Prevention Reauthorization Act makes permanent 14 of the 16 expiring provisions of the PATRIOT Act and placed a four year sunset on the other two provisions. The PATRIOT ACT:Ø Removed major legal barriers which prevented the law enforcement, intelligence, and national defense communities from coordinating their work;Ø Allowed law enforcement to conduct surveillance of more terror-related activities and allowed the authorization of nationwide search warrants;Ø Updated the law to reflect new technologies and new threats; and Ø Increased penalties for those who commit acts of terrorism and those who harbor terrorists. The USA PATRIOT Act also included provisions from the Methamphetamine Epidemic Elimination Act to help reduce the supply of meth and punish meth producers, traffickers, and smugglers. “Oklahoma has already taken considerable measures to help stop the methamphetamine epidemic that is plaguing our country and presenting a clear and present danger to our children,” Congressman Cole said. “The provisions included in this bill will help us, on a national level, make it more difficult to obtain the necessary ingredients to produce meth and strengthen criminal penalties for those who traffic it." The USA PATRIOT and Terrorism Prevention Reauthorization Act has already passed in the Senate and will now be sent to the president for his signature. ###
03.08.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Representative Tom Cole voted today for the Children's Safety and Violent Crime Reduction Act of 2005 (H.R. 4472) that will help prevent the sexual abuse and exploitation of children. This legislation passed in the House today and must now be debated in the Senate. “It is heartbreaking that laws such of these are even necessary, but unfortunately there are perpetrators out there that harm and exploit young and innocent children. The Children’s Safety Act will help protect children from by strengthening notification requirements for sex offenders and increasing criminal penalties. It is the least we can do to defend our children from violence," Congressman Tom Cole said. H.R. 4472 prevents crimes against children through a coordinated law enforcement approach that includes expanding the definition of sex offenders to include juvenile sex offenders, increasing reporting requirements for known offenders and increasing penalties for those convicted of sexual and violent crimes against minors. In conjunction with pre-existing laws, the Children’s Safety Act of 2005 will give residents and local law enforcement as much information as possible about offenders who move into their communities. This legislation will also helps law enforcers find missing children before any harm can come to them. ###
03.08.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Tom Cole attended a press conference today to roll out a budget proposal from the Republican Study Committee that balances the budget by FY 2011, eliminates numerous unnecessary federal programs and proposes over $650 billion in savings over five years. "This budget proposes big savings and implements pro-growth policies that will help our economy and put more money in the pockets of hard working Americans. Although I do not agree with every proposal in this bill, I believe it sets the right spending and saving targets," Congressman Tom Cole said. "Government spending is growing out of control. It is time we got serious about the deficit and runaway entitlement programs-- this budget does just that." "Even with these proposals, I believe we must also confront entitlement programs to make any serious attempts at controlling government spending and reducing the deficit over the long term. These programs are currently growing at nearly six percent faster than our economy and more than twice the rate of inflation," Congressman Cole added. The following proposals are included in the Republican Study budget that was unveiled today at the press conference: Balances the budget by FY 2011 Proposes the elimination of over numerous unnecessary federal programs Includes pro-growth tax policy (guards against automatic tax increases) Makes no changes to Social Security Makes real reductions in discretionary spending Proposes $358 billion in reconciliation savings over five years (the original “Contract with America budget included $346 billion in reconciliation savings over five years, $684 over seven years.) Proposes $392 billion in net deficit reduction over five years (this includes $691 billion in initial savings minus $299 billion in defense and veterans increases) Increases defense spending to the President’s FY 2007 request Reduces foreign aid by $31 billion over five years Significantly restructures three cabinet agencies: Commerce, Energy, and Education· Allows drilling in Arctic National Wildlife Refuge· Includes budget process reform· Calls for earmark reform and a constitutional line-item veto· Calls for a federal sunset commission###
02.28.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Tom Cole recently congratulated Jacob Branstetter on his appointment to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Cole nominated Branstetter to the Air Force Academy entering class of 2006. "I was proud to nominate Jacob to the U.S. Air Force Academy. During his time at Lawton MacArthur, Jacob has succeeded both academically and athletically," Congressman Tom Cole said. "I'm very happy for him that he can now continue to prove his excellence at the Air Force Academy, and in the process make his family and his state very proud." Jacob is the son of Gerald and Diane Branstetter. He will graduate from Lawton MacArthur this year. ###
02.28.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Tom Cole recently congratulated Paul E. Tennison on his appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point. Cole nominated Tennison to the U.S. Military Academy entering class of 2006. "Paul is one of Oklahoma's bright and talented students. His strong dedication to our country deserves our respect and support. I congratulate him on his appointment to West Point Military Academy and wish him the best of luck in his military career," Congressman Cole said. Tennison is the son of Marvin and Diana Tennison. He will graduate from Southwest Christian this year. ###
02.23.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Tom Cole made the following statement in opposition to an acquisition proposal from Dubai Ports World (DP World), a port operations company owned by the government of the United Arab Emirates (UAE). The deal would position DP World to conduct terminal operations at six U.S. ports. "The responsibility of keeping our country safe should not be outsourced to a foreign company that could be penetrated by terrorists. In a post September 11 world, we cannot be naive about the security of our country. I will oppose any proposal that would allow US port security to be left in the hands of questionable foreign organizations, especially without thorough scrutiny by government officials and Congress. I will do everything in my power to ensure this takeover does not happen and the security of our ports and borders are not jeopardized." ###
02.08.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Cole introduced the Home and Farm Wind Energy Systems Act of 2005 today that will provide a 30 percent tax credit for businesses and individuals that purchase small wind turbines. "One of the greatest threats to economic recovery is increasing energy prices. Congress has already taken some important steps to solve this problem, but we must continue to provide incentives for those who use alternate energy sources. Small wind systems, if available at the right price, could be part of the solution to curbing energy prices," Congressman Cole said. This legislation will help make small wind turbines more affordable by promoting mass production of the equipment. "Small wind is an American led, renewable technology that offers homeowners and small businesses the prospect of significantly lowering their heating bills, if we can get the equipment into volume production," Mike Bergey, President of Bergey Windpower in Norman, Oklahoma, said. Small wind systems work in cooperation with an individual's utility provider--often receiving some power from wind turbine and some from the power company. The amount from each depends on wind speed--increasing wind speed increases turbine energy production. As the wind turbine begins to work the power drawn from the power company is reduced ###
02.02.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C.--In order to help control mandatory spending, which now comprises about 54 percent of the budget, Congressman Tom Cole voted yesterday for the Deficit Reduction Conference Report (S. 1932) that will achieve almost $40 billion in savings over the next five years. "Passing this legislation and sending it to the President is a really great way to start this legislative year. Mandatory spending programs are currently growing at an unsustainable rate--if left alone these programs will begin to crowd out all other national priorities, strain our economy and significantly increase the deficit," Congressman Tom Cole said. "This legislation gets us going on the right track, strengthening and improving entitlement programs to make sure they are serving their intended purpose." The House passed a slightly different version of this legislation in December 2005. It is necessary to pass the bill again because it was altered during debate in the Senate. H.R. 4241 will now go to the President for his signature. "The Deficit Reduction Act lowers the rate of spending growth over the next five years. It is a real effort to slow government spending and reduce the deficit, but it is not the only solution. We still have a long way to go. I hope this year, we will be able to find ways to achieve additional savings and get serious about how the government spends taxpayer money," Congressman Tom Cole said. H.R. 4241 also provides a down-payment toward hurricane recovery and reconstruction costs. Congressman Cole was able to add a provision in this bill that will waive the continuous service requirements of the Federal Teacher Loan Forgiveness Program for teachers whose employment is interrupted by Hurricane Katrina. ###
01.31.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Cole made the following statement about President Bush's State of the Union Address, January 31, 2006: "With the same unwavering determination we have seen over the past five years, President Bush laid out this year's agenda in a true visionary's style. Tonight he left no doubt that he will use his last three years to accomplish what is best for the country-success in Iraq, domestic security, better health care for all Americans, a sound energy policy, global competitiveness and a bolstering economy." "The theme of leadership in the speech tonight was perfect for a President, who I believe, will be remembered for his ability to lead in a time of crisis. I think he really spoke to the heart of all Americans when describing America's role of leadership in the world." "One theme we heard tonight has been prominent since 9/11, domestic security and the War on Terror. More than anything this issue will be what shapes President Bush's presidency and what he will be remembered for in the history books. When faced with the opposition's choice to cut and run, the President has pushed harder to define and reiterate his strategy of taking the fight to the terrorists, both in Afghanistan and Iraq and around the world. I believe he is right, we must stay the course and take the necessary precautions to protect our country. In this case the best defense really is a good offense." "The President also has a vision for American, here at home. It centers around affordable health care, innovation, alternative energy sources and quality jobs. The themes the President touched on tonight will guide our legislative session this year." "I want to reinforce what the President said tonight. We are living in historic times. The decisions we make today will determine the world we live in tomorrow. I hope that this year both sides of the isle will be able to work together to move America forward and spread freedom around the globe." ###
01.27.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Cole made the following statement after hearing the news that additional counties were added to the disaster declaration. These counties will now be eligible to receive federal funds to help fight the wild fires and recover from their damage. "I am very pleased that these additional counties were added to the disaster declaration. This is good news for the firefighters in those areas, and for the families in those counties that have lost their homes to these wild fires," Congressman Cole said. "Oklahoma emergency management officials and the local FEMA team have been working hard to ensure that everyone receives the assistance they need. My office is also available to answer questions and help families, small business, farmers and ranchers that were affected by these fires." To apply for these funds please call 1-800-621- FEMA (3362); those with speech or hearing impairments may call the TTY number at 1-800-462-7595. Both numbers are available from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., seven days a week. An application may also be filed online at www.fema.gov. For any additional assistance, Congressman Cole's office can be reached at 405-329-6500. The major disaster declaration for Oklahoma wildfires, DR 1623, has been amended to include the following counties for Individual Assistance. BryanCarterChoctawCreekMcIntoshMurrayMuskogeeOkmulgeeOsagePaynePittsburgPontotocTulsaWagoner ###
01.26.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Tom Cole announced today that the University of Oklahoma was recently awarded the Postal Service training contract, effective January 1, 2006. The contract provides $27 million over two years with three one-year renewable options. Assuming the contract goes for the full five years, the award would amount to $67 million, maintaining 217 full-time jobs in the Norman area. "I am very pleased that we were able to work together to keep these jobs and this contract at the University of Oklahoma. This is really a win-win situation, the Postal Service will get high quality training, the Norman area will maintain jobs and this program will support the University of Oklahoma," Congressman Cole said. "We believe that the National Center for Employee Development and the facility in Norman provides the best possible training for those postal service employees. Additionally, the indirect costs rates that the contract provides help to support the University and the programs of our Outreach division, which, in turn provides Norman and Oklahoma citizens an outstanding institution and lifelong education opportunities," Dr. James P. Pappas, Vice President for University Outreach, said. “We are lucky to have this state of the art conference center and hotel facility in Norman. The cooperation of OU and NCED is a unique and special resource for education and training for federal employees of all types,” Dr. Pappas said. ###
12.20.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Cole voted for the Defense Authorization Conference Report (H.R. 1815) recently that includes multiple provisions to improve the quality of life for men and women in the nation’s active, guard and reserve forces. “The men and women of our Armed Forces continue to sacrifice every day to ensure America’s success in the global war on terrorism, and they deserve the equipment, the training and the additional benefits we included in this bill,” Congressman Tom Cole said. H.R. 1815 authorizes $441 billion for the Department of Defense. Specifically this bill includes $76.9 billion in procurement funding, $70 billion for research, development, testing and evaluation and $108.9 billion for military personnel. It allows for the 3.1 percent pay raise for our troops and increases the monthly hardship duty pay from $300 to $750. It also extends the death gratuity increase to $100,000 for all military deaths. In addition to these national priorities, this legislation also includes provisions that will be particularly important to Oklahoma. H.R. 1815 also includes language to establish a memorial for the U.S.S. Oklahoma at Pearl Harbor. Congressman Cole inserted this language into the House passed version earlier this year and worked to include it in the final version of the legislation. "I am very pleased we were able to maintain the language in the bill that will jump start the process to establish a memorial for the U.S.S. Oklahoma. This legislation will require the Secretary of the Navy, within 90 days of the bill being signed into law, to identify a sight for the memorial to be built," Congressman Tom Cole said. Money will be privately raised to build the physical memorial. Language in the bill also allows for the park service to create transportation from the island to the memorial. A request by Congressman Tom Cole to split NLOS-C from the development track of the Future Combat Systems was also included in this legislation. The bill also includes provisions to ensure that NLOS-C will be powerful enough to remain a dominant weapon on the battlefield for many years. "This bill continues the plan to move forward with NLOS-C--and possibly puts it on a fast track. By splitting NLOS-C from the Future Combat Systems, it allows the Army to move forward even if other manned ground vehicles are further delayed," Congressman Tom Cole said. The defense authorization bill must now pass in the Senate.###
12.19.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C.-- Congressman Cole praised Chairman of the House Resources Committee Richard Pombo, today for his work to extend the December 31, 2005 statutory deadline for filing of claims against the Department of the Interior for alleged mismanagement of Indian trust funds. Early this morning the House passed, by unanimous consent, S. 1892 that will extend this deadline for one year. "Chairman Pombo has been relentless in making sure this legislation was brought before the House before adjournment this year. With this extension, Native Americans will have additional time to file their claims and reach an agreement with the Department of the Interior," Congressman Cole said. The one year extension is necessary to preempt a wave of legal claims that would have to be filed to protect tribes with potential claims. This will in turn waste time and money that could be avoided if the deadline was extended in order for settlement resolutions to be negotiated. Congressman Cole used his position on the powerful Rules Committee to work with leadership, in support of Congressman Pombo, to bring this legislation to the floor.###
12.19.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Rep. Tom Cole voted for the Deficit Reduction Conference Report early this morning which will help lower the rate of growth of government spending and reduce the deficit. This legislation includes savings recommendations from eight authorizing committees to achieve a net savings of about $41.6 billion in mandatory spending programs. "It is important to remember that this legislation does not cut spending--it simply lowers the rate of spending growth over the next five years," Congressman Cole said. "We still have a long way to go in reforming government spending and reducing the deficit, but you have to start somewhere." To reach these savings, this legislation makes critical reform to mandatory spending programs, which if left on their current path--in just a decade--will consume 62 percent of the government's budget. Reform was needed to ensure these programs continue meeting their core missions. "Eventually mandatory spending could crowd out all other priorities--such as education, veterans services, agriculture, environment, homeland security and defense. With this legislation, Congress makes a responsible commitment to meet America's priorities now and in the future." This legislation also included a provision, added by Congressman Cole that will waive the continuous service requirements of the Federal Teacher Loan Forgiveness Program for teachers whose employment is interrupted by Hurricane Katrina. The Federal Teacher Loan Forgiveness Program requires teachers to be full-time employees at a qualifying school for five complete and consecutive years to be eligible for loan forgiveness. This legislation would allow the Secretary of Education to waive the "consecutive" requirement for those affected by a natural disaster. This legislation will now go to the President for his signature. ###
12.19.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C.-- Early this morning, Congressman Tom Cole voted the Defense Appropriations Conference Report (H.R. 2863) that provides $453.5 billion to fight the global war on terror, enhance our security and improve the lives of our service men and women, as well as providing funding for other national priorities such as hurricane relief and avian flu preparedness. This legislation also included a provision to allow drilling in Artic National Wildlife Refuge to increase our domestic supply of oil. As point man on the powerful Rules Committee for all defense issues, Congressman Cole led the debate on the rule for this legislation. A rule must be passed before the actual piece of legislation is debatable. "This bill provides vital funding for our troops, including a 3.1 percent military pay raise. It also ensures that our military is equipped for current and future challenges, whatever they may be," Congressman Cole said. H.R. 2863 fully funds a 3.1 percent military pay raise, effective January 1, 2006, as well as $1.2 billion for body armor and other gear our troops need in the field. It includes $1.4 billion to test and field electronic jammers to counteract improvised explosive devices (IEDs). An additional $150 million is provided to fund increases in life insurance and death gratuities. Impact Aid is also funded in this legislation. This appropriation bill contains many provisions that are particularly important to the mission and military installations in Oklahoma. In this legislation, the Army's Future Combat System (FCS) research and development program is funded at $3.2 billion. Congressman Cole was able to secure $40.8 million above the President's request for the non-line of sight cannon (NLOS). Total funding for NLOS cannon will be $148.8 million. Language was included in the bill, to develop NLOS cannon separate from Future Combat Systems. This ensures NLOS cannon will be fielded by 2010, even if FCS is pushed back. "With this legislation the Army will continue to move forward with its plans to develop the non-line of sight cannon. I will continue working to ensure this program receives the funding it needs to stay on track," Congressman Cole said. H.R. 2860 includes $50 billion in emergency funding for military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, including $1 billion in additional equipment for the Army and Air National Guard and Army Reserve. "The House made it very clear last week that we must stay the course in Iraq and we must be successful. The president also reiterated his commitment in an address to the nation last night. These funds will go directly to the men and women who are in Iraq and Afghanistan for pay and equipment. We must give them the tools they need to be successful," Congressman Tom Cole said. In addition to funding our defense priorities, this legislation meets some of our domestic priorities as well. This bill will provide a total of $29 billion in disaster assistance to hurricane damaged areas in the Gulf Coast. This legislation provided $3.8 billion for avian flu preparedness that will be used to upgrade state and local response capacity in case of an outbreak. In order to help keep spending down, both of these provisions will be completely off-set by a one percent across the board reduction in FYO6 discretionary spending and additional savings. "While remaining fiscally responsible, the House was able to provide assistance to those affected by Hurricane Katrina and funds to prevent a major avian flu outbreak in the United States," Congressman Cole said. "I believe it is very important during this time of major spending obligations to find ways to reduce spending levels in other areas-- keeping our national priorities in order." Also included in this legislation is a provision to allowing 10.4 billion barrels of oil to be produced in the northern coastal plain of the Artic National Wildlife Refuge, known as ANWR. "I am particularly pleased that the provision to allow for oil production in ANWR was included in this legislation. Increasing our domestic supply of oil--although not the only solution--will help us decrease our energy dependence on unstable foreign countries," Congressman Cole said. This legislation must now pass in the Senate before it is sent to the President for his signature. ###
12.17.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C.-- Congressman Tom Cole voted last night for immigration legislation that will help control America's borders and prevent illegal immigration in our country. Congressman Cole was a co-sponsor of the Border Protection, Antiterrorism, and Illegal Immigration Control Act of 2005 (H.R. 4437), which passed in the House and must now be debated in the Senate. ****NOTE. Because of electronic problems with Congressman Cole's voting card, he was recorded as not voting. He spoke on the floor regarding this problem: "Mr. Speaker, late tonight I discovered there is a problem with my voting card. After returning home, I became aware that my vote was not recorded on roll call votes 661, 659, and 651. On each of these votes, I am sure I voted "yes.'' Indeed, I checked my vote on the card receptacle. It clearly showed that I had voted. I will work with the Parliamentarian to resolve this issue with my voting card at the earliest possible time." "This legislation makes a good first step in securing our borders, but it is important to note that it is just that--a first step. Congress will continue its work next year to enact a strict, legal and enforced immigration policy," Congressman Tom Cole. According to the Department of Homeland Security, there are an estimated 8 to 11 million illegal immigrants currently in the country. Of those, approximately 400,000 have standing deportation orders and another 15,000 may pose a national security risk. "America has always and will continue to be an open and accepting country for legal immigrants, but we must make sure the people coming into our country are coming in legally and are not people who wish us harm," Congressman Tom Cole said. The Border Protection, Antiterrorism, and Illegal Immigration Control Act of 2005 enhances our security along our borders through enhanced Border Patrol operations, physical barriers and state-of-the-art technology. It authorizes 1,000 new, full time port of entry inspectors over the next four years and the training of 1,500 additional K-9 units over the next five years. H.R. 4437 will put an end to the “catch and release” practice along the southwest border. This year alone, 115,000 illegal immigrants from countries other than Mexico have been apprehended by the Border Patrol, only to be released due to lack of detention space. This legislation also prevents illegal immigration by controlling our borders and holding people accountable. H.R. 4437 achieves this goal by cracking down on employers hiring illegal workers, smugglers trafficking in human beings, as well as, confronting the emerging problem of alien gangs. ###
12.17.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Tom Cole voted today for the Department of Justice Appropriations Authorization Conference Report, H.R. 3402, which includes language to give tribal governments the ability to qualify for three different Department of Justice grants. Congressman Cole worked to include this language in the House passed version of the bill earlier this year. "I am very pleased this legislation was included in the final version of this legislation. Tribal governments should have the same access to these grants as other state and local governments. These grants will help provide tribal law enforcement officers the tools they need to keep their communities safe," Congressman Tom Cole said. The Department of Justice Appropriations Authorization Conference Report will make tribal governments eligible for the following grants: Weed and Seed Grants. A discretionary grant program designed to "weed out" crime in selected neighborhoods and "seed" them with coordinated crime prevention and human service programs. This bill includes $50 million for this program for FYO6. Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance program (JAG). These grants provide funds to prevent and control crime based on local needs and conditions. This bill includes almost $350 million for the JAG grant program for FY06. Regional Information Sharing Systems Grants. These funds will be used for maintaining and operating regional information sharing to help meet the needs of law enforcement agencies that are working on multi-jurisdictional offenses. H.R. 3402 includes over $180 million for this program for FY06. This legislation will now be sent to the President for his approval.###
12.16.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Tom Cole voted today for a resolution in the U.S. House that expresses the commitment of the House of Representatives to achieving victory in Iraq. "I have been to Iraq five times and I have seen the progress our troops are making. They are neutralizing the insurgency, defeating the terrorists and creating a better life for the Iraqi people. They are advancing freedom and they are winning," Congressman Cole said. "A victory in Iraq means a win in the War on Terror, a better life for the Iraqi people, a more stable Middle East and a more secure America. Furthermore, withdrawing now, before our troops have finished the job, would be utterly disastrous for the Iraqi people and for the security of peaceful countries around the world," Congressman Tom Cole said. The resolution, passed in the House today, states, "the House of Representatives recognizes and honors the tremendous sacrifices made by the members of the United States Armed Forces and their families, along with the members of Iraqi and Coalition forces; and the United States House of Representatives has the unshakable confidence that, with the support of the American people and the Congress, United States Armed Forces, along with Iraqi and Coalition forces, shall achieve victory in Iraq." "I know that the President is committed to this mission and polls show that the American people believe we must be successful. I am very pleased we were able to pass this resolution to show that the United States House also wants to see this through," Congressman Tom Cole said. "The elections this week showed that the Iraqi people are moving closer to a true democratic society. They are dedicated to this goal and head to the polls despite the danger they face--this more than anything gives me confidence that they will be successful. I am very proud of our men and women in uniform who make each election possible. Their determination, dedication and skill have once again brought freedom to an oppressed people."###
12.15.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Cole introduced a resolution in the U.S. House yesterday evening that condemns Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's hateful rhetoric directed toward Israel and his cavalier dismissal of the historical reality of the Holocaust. "I believe it is very important that as representatives of the American people, we reject Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's remarks as false and historically inaccurate. The lessons learned in World War II and the Holocaust must not be dismissed, debunked or forgotten by world leaders and the nations they represent," Congressman Tom Cole declared. Following is the text of the legislation:Whereas on October 26, 2005, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the President of the Islamic Republic of Iran, said in a speech that ‘‘Israel must be wiped off the map’’; Whereas Ahmadinejad made his remarks at a conference entitled, ‘‘The World Without Zionism’’;Whereas Ahmadinejad’s comments received condemnation from the United Nations and foreign governments, including a measure passed by a unanimous vote of the U.S. House of Representatives on October 28, 2005;Whereas in a speech covered by Iranian state television on December 14, 2005, Ahmadinejad iterated his charge that Israel must be driven from its ‘‘occupation of Palestinian territory’’; Whereas the Iranian President went on to call the Holocaust a lie, saying, ‘‘[The Israelis] have fabricated a legend under the name ‘Massacre of the Jews,’ and they hold it higher than God Himself’’ and that Ahmadinejad ‘‘hate[s] [Israel’s] frail civilization’’; and Whereas such repugnant comments, coming after Ahmadinejad’s previous comments, further show the danger Iran could pose to the region and the world, especially if armed with a nuclear weapon, as is the Iranian government’s evident wish: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives—(1) condemns in the strongest terms the vile assertions by Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the President of the Islamic Republic of Iran, and again demands that he disavow his remarks;(2) calls upon the United Nations Security Council and all civilized nations to censure Iran for its government’s dangerous attempt to rewrite history;(3) reiterates its earlier pledge to prevent Iran from procuring nuclear weapons and its steadfast bonds with the State of Israel; and(4) affirms its understanding of all of the lessons of World War II, including that the millions murdered in the Holocaust must never be forgotten and such atrocities should never happen again. This legislation would most likely be passed in the House by unanimous consent, which could happen as early as this week.###
12.15.2005	Washington, D.C.--Rep. Tom Cole voted for H.R. 2830, the Pension Protection Act of 2005, which passed in the House. H.R. 2830 addresses the problem of under-funded pension plans. Congressman Cole used his position on the powerful Rules Committee to help protect a bipartisan compromise that was especially important to GM employees who were recently laid off due to plant closings. In a Rules Committee meeting, members agreed to include a provision in the Manager's Amendment to allow a five-year phase in to the requirement that pension benefits could be increased only if a pension plan was at least 80 percent funded. Shutdown benefits would be allowable under the same standards as pension benefit increases. After these changes to Sections 103 (a) and (b) of the bill, the United Auto Workers endorsed the bill. "I am very pleased we were able to include language in the bill, which was reported out of Rules Committee, to fix this controversial provision. This new language will protect plant shutdown benefits and pension benefit increases," Congressman Tom Cole said. The Pension Protection Act takes a balanced approach to comprehensive pension reform. “People work hard for years to earn a pension and they deserve for it to be protected. This bipartisan bill supported by businesses as well as labor unions is a carefully crafted compromise that will shore up funding for pension plans," Congressman Tom Cole said. “The bill will protect the pensions of employees and retirees and prevent taxpayers from having to bail out the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation because some companies have failed to adequately fund their pension plans. Specifically, the act will do the following:Ø Ensure employers properly and adequately fund their worker pension plans;Ø Protect taxpayers from costly bailouts of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation;Ø Require companies to provide more information to workers about the status of their pension plans; andØ Make commonsense modifications to defined contribution laws to encourage greater personal savings for retirement and other needs. This legislation must now pass in the Senate. ###
12.14.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C.-- Congressman Tom Cole voted for the USA PATRIOT and Terrorism Prevention Reauthorization Conference Report (H.R. 3199), which passed in the House today. This legislation reauthorizes the PATRIOT Act, passed in 2001, to help prevent future terrorist acts in our country. "This legislation ensures that our law enforcement personnel will continue to have the tools they need to fight terrorism and prevent future attacks," Congressman Cole said. "In a post-September 11, 2001 world it is vital that we take every precaution necessary to protect our country." H.R. 3199 removes legal barriers that previously prevented law enforcement, intelligence and national defense communities from coordinating their work. It makes permanent 14 of the 16 expiring PATRIOT Act provisions and places a 4-year sunset on the other two provisions. In addition, the conference report contains new provisions to protect Americans’ civil liberties as well as important provisions to address the growing problem presented by methamphetamine. “The growing availability of methamphetamine represents a clear and present danger to our nation’s children. Although Oklahoma has already enforced strict regulations to prevent meth production, this bill will help reduce the supply of this deadly drug nation-wide. It will also stiffen existing penalties for anyone caught producing or trafficking methamphetamine." The Methamphetamine Epidemic Elimination Act, included in the conference report on H.R. 3199, will restrict the sale of the over-the-counter medicines used to produce meth. This legislation will also toughen federal penalties for methamphetamine traffickers and smugglers as well as those who produce or deal meth in the presence of children.###
12.14.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Cole announced today that both TRIO and GEAR UP are funded in the final version of the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2006 that passed in the House today. In this legislation, TRIO is funded at $836.54 million, which is $467 million above President's budget request. GEAR UP is funded at $306.48 million, which is $306.48 million above President's budget request. "I am very pleased both of these important programs are set to continue to receive funding next year. Both of these programs have made a significant impact in lives of Oklahoma students. I will continue to fight for these programs in the years to come," Congressman Cole said. Earlier this year, the President's budget proposed cutting funding for this education program that helps underprivileged students attend college. Congressman Cole led a bi-partisan effort to ensure the funding was not eliminated. He sent a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Labor, HHS and Education Subcommittee, that was signed by 167 members, urging them to continue funding these programs. "TRIO is a vital resource for students in Oklahoma. It provides them with opportunities to purse higher education, opportunities that otherwise they may not have," Congressman Cole said. In Oklahoma's Fourth Congressional District, there are 18 TRIO programs that have served almost 6,000 students###
12.14.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Cole announced today that language to protect tribal sovereignty, specifically in the collection of taxes on cigarettes and smokeless tobacco in Indian Country, was included in the USA PATRIOT and Terrorism Prevention Reauthorization Act of 2005 Conference Report (H.R. 3199). Congressman Cole used his position on the powerful Rules Committee to insist that language protecting tribal sovereignty was included in the bill when it passed in the House earlier this year. He then worked to ensure it was included in the final version of the legislation. Language, included by Congressman Cole, would protect tribal tax and regulatory authority as well as any intergovernmental agreements entered into between tribes and states relating to the collection of taxes on cigarettes and smokeless tobacco in Indian country. Original language, offered by Congressman Howard Coble (R-NC), unintentionally affected tribal governments who are legitimately involved in tobacco sales. "As the only enrolled tribal member in Congress, the issue of tribal sovereignty is of great personal importance to me," Congressman Cole said. "Tribes have entered into numerous intergovernmental agreements with states to address tax concerns--I believe it is important not to interrupt these established, working contracts. The language in the final legislation will protect these agreements and tribal sovereignty." ###
12.08.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Congressman Tom Cole voted today for H.R. 4297, the Tax Relief Extension Reconciliation Act of 2005. This legislation will extend important tax breaks including extending tax incentives for business activity on former Indian lands and businesses that hire Native Americans and their spouses that are especially advantageous to Oklahomans. “This legislation will benefit virtually every working American and continue to steer our economy on the path of continued growth. Good economic policies such as tax relief will lead to a stronger economy and a lower deficit. These policies have proven they work and our showing results," Congressman Tom Cole said. The key provisions in this legislation include extending the reduced tax rates on capital gains and dividend income through 2010. According to the Joint Committee on Taxation, over 60 percent of Americans receiving capital gains or dividend income have incomes of $100,000 or less and stand to benefit from the passage of today’s bill. "It is very good news for Oklahoma that this legislation extends two provisions, 45(a) and 168(j), that are vital in encouraging economic growth in our state and creating new jobs for all Oklahomans," Congressman Tom Cole said. The tax code provides certain tax benefits to help spur economic activity on Indian reservations, that may face obstacles in attracting businesses and qualified workers. The first provision extended in this legislation is the Indian Employment Tax Credit, which will be extended from Dec. 31, 2005 until Dec. 31, 2006. The second provision is an extension of the accelerated depreciation for business property on Indian Reservations from Dec. 31, 2005 until Dec. 31, 2006. H.R. 4297 must now pass in the Senate. ###
12.07.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. -As a member of the powerful Rules Committee, Congressman Cole worked today to protect two provisions in the tax portion of the budget reconciliation bill (HR 4297) that will be very important to Oklahomans. The Rules Committee voted this evening to include these provisions in the bill that will be debated on the House floor tomorrow. The first provision, 45(a), is an extension of the Indian Employment Tax Credit from Dec. 31, 2005 until Dec. 31, 2006. The second provision, 168(j), is an extension of the accelerated depreciation for business property on Indian Reservations from Dec. 31, 2005 until Dec. 31, 2006. "I am very pleased that the Rules Committee included these two provisions in the bill that will be debated on the floor tomorrow. These two tax extensions are very valuable to Oklahoma businesses, providing a tax break for businesses that locate or expand on former Indian lands and for businesses that hire Native Americans and their spouses," Congressman Cole said. "The extension of these two provisions will continue to encourage economic growth in our state and create new jobs for all Oklahomans." Both the bill and the Democratic substitute include these important provisions, so regardless of the outcome of the vote these tax extensions will advance in the legislative process. ###
11.21.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. Congressman Cole announced today that over $29 million was included for Ft. Sill in the FY2006 Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Conference Report (H.R. 2528). Congressman Cole worked to include these funds in H.R. 2528 that passed today in the U.S. House. "I am very pleased this money was included in the final version of this bill to help fund priority projects at Fort Sill. These improvements and additions will ensure that Fort Sill remains a vital component of our military for a long time to come," Congressman Tom Cole said. Congressman Cole has helped secure $175 million dollars for projects at Fort Sill since he was elected. The following projects were included in H.R. 2528 for Fort Sill. · $3.15 million to build a fire station on base that meets air force safety requirements;· $2.7 million for Rail Road Equipment Facility;· $24 million for family housing. This legislation must now pass in the Senate before it goes to the President for his signature. ###
11.21.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Cole voted for a spending bill that includes $200,000 to help Midwest City build a community outreach center. The Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development, the Judiciary, the District of Columbia, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Conference Report (3058) passed today in the House. "I am very pleased these funds were included in the final version of this legislation. This center will be an investment in the Midwest City community--serving as a safe haven, a help site and an education center for those who need it the most," Congressman Cole said. Midwest City plans on building a 15,500 square foot facility to serve as a community outreach/resource center housing a multitude of services and agencies available to serve the area. Proposed on-site services will include drug/substance abuse counseling, youth and family counseling services, tutoring, job search and training; literacy classes and health and fitness screenings. This legislation must pass in the Senate before it is sent to the President for his signature. ###
11.21.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. Congressman Cole announced today that over $31 million was included for Tinker Air Force Base in the FY2006 Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Conference Report (H.R. 2528). Congressman Cole worked to include these funds in H.R. 2528 that passed today in the U.S. House. "I am very pleased this money was included in the final version of this bill to help fund priority projects at Tinker Air Force Base. These improvements and additions to the base will ensure that Tinker remains a vital component of our military for a long time to come," Congressman Tom Cole said. Congressman Cole has helped secure $93 million dollars for projects at Tinker Air Force Base since he was elected. The following projects were included in H.R. 2528 for Tinker Air Force Base: · $11.96 million for 31st Combat Communication Squadron Operations Complex at Tinker Air Force Base;· $20 million for the second phase of upgrades to the Building 3001 infrastructure. This legislation must now pass in the Senate before it goes to the President for his signature. ###
11.21.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Cole voted for a spending bill that includes $2 million for the operation of Fort Sill's Army Radar Approach Control. The Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development, the Judiciary, the District of Columbia, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Conference Report (3058) passed today in the House. "These funds will help Fort Sill keep local control of airspace over the base to maximize joint operations, especially with the Air Force and Marine Corps. Jointness capability is essential in securing Fort Sill's long-term value in the United States military," Congressman Tom Cole said. This radar in important to joint training arrangements with Vance Air Force Base, Altus Air Force Base, Sheppard Air Force Base, Wichita Falls and Tinker Air Force Base. In addition to providing jointness capabilities, the Army Radar Approach is important to maintain Fort Sill's ability to receive future missions relating to unmanned aerial vehicles and helicopters. The Army Radar Approach Control is the radar that provides operational capabilities to Army aircraft. This legislation must pass in the Senate before it is sent to the President for his signature. Air Force Base###
11.21.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Cole voted for a spending bill that includes $220,000 million for Rural Enterprises to continue implementing Employer-Assisted Housing programs. The Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development, the Judiciary, the District of Columbia, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Conference Report (3058) passed today in the House. This initiative helps put the American dream within grasp of many more Oklahoma families living in rural areas. This is a win-win program benefiting both employers and employees," Congressman Tom Cole said. The Employer-Assisted Housing program is a benefit plan by an employer to assist eligible employees with down payment and closing cost for the purchase of a home.This legislation must pass in the Senate before it is sent to the President for his signature. ###
11.18.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Cole voted today for the Deficit Reduction Act that will slow the rate of growth in government spending from 6.4 percent to 6.3 percent. "In the wake of Hurricane Katrina, it has become necessary to find ways to lower spending and pay for the aid needed in the Gulf Coast. This legislation does just that--without cutting spending and important programs. The Deficit Reduction Act merely reduces increases in spending that would otherwise occur if left on auto-pilot," Congressman Cole said. The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 includes savings recommendations from eight authorizing committees to achieve a net savings of about $50 billion in mandatory spending programs. Thirty-five billion dollars was designated in the FY06 conference report passed earlier this year. The additional savings reflects a commitment to making a down payment on disaster spending. Although a good step forward in limiting the size and scope of government, the amount within the context of the $14 trillion that will be spent by the federal government over the next five years is very small. "This is one step, with still more work to do afterwards, to contain the growth of federal spending," Congressman Tom Cole said. "If left alone, eventually mandatory spending will crowd out all other priorities--such as education, veterans services, agriculture, environment, homeland security and defense." This legislation also included a provision, added by Congressman Cole that will waive the continuous service requirements of the Federal Teacher Loan Forgiveness Program for teachers whose employment is interrupted by Hurricane Katrina. "Teachers should not be punished for an unavoidable natural disaster that leaves them temporarily without a job," Congressman Tom Cole said. The Federal Teacher Loan Forgiveness Program requires teachers to be full-time employees at a qualifying school for five complete and consecutive years to be eligible for loan forgiveness. This legislation would allow the Secretary of Education to waive the "consecutive" requirement for those affected by a natural disaster. The Senate has already passed their version of this legislation and now the differences between the two bills will need to be resolved in a conference committee. ###
11.16.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Cole announced today that two provisions included in the tax portion of the budget reconciliation bill (HR 4297) will be especially advantageous to Oklahomans. The first provision is an extension of the Indian Employment Tax Credit from Dec. 31, 2005 until Dec. 31, 2006. The second provision is an extension of the accelerated depreciation for business property on Indian Reservations from Dec. 31, 2005 until Dec. 31, 2006. "I am very pleased that the Ways and Means Committee included these two provisions in the tax reconciliation bill. The provisions will extend tax incentives for businesses that locate or expand on former Indian lands and provide a tax credit for businesses that hire Native Americans and their spouses," Congressman Cole said. "The extension of these two provisions will continue to encourage economic growth in our state and create new jobs for all Oklahomans." "The accelerated depreciation tax advantage in 168(j) is especially important to Oklahoma. It provides a tax incentive for any business that moves into Indian country, whether it is owned by Native Americans or not," Congressman Cole said. Almost three-fourths of the land in Oklahoma is eligible for the accelerated depreciation advantage, making this provision worth hundreds of millions of dollars for Oklahoma businesses." These two sections were amended in 1997 to include Oklahoma Indian country by former Congressman Wes Watkins. The Indian Employment Tax Credit in section 45(a) provides a 20 percent tax credit to employers who hire Native Americans and their spouses. The 168(j) provision allows businesses that locate on former Indian lands to depreciate their assets 40 percent faster than normal. Without an extension, both of these provisions will expire at the end of the year. “This provision has proven to be a strong economic development incentive for our state. I was happy to work to see that this important tax provision was extended, "Congressman Sullivan said. The tax reconciliation legislation passed in the Ways and Means Committee last night and is expected to be debated on the House floor later this week. ###
11.04.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Tom Cole voted for legislation today that will enhance the penalty for states and localities that abuse their eminent domain power. The Private Property Rights Protection Act (H.R. 4128) passed in the House and now must be debated in the Senate. "Private ownership of property is vital to both our freedom and our prosperity. Under the recent Supreme Court decision in the case of Kelo v. City of New London, the Court essentially erased any protection of private property as understood by our Founding Fathers. The legislation passed today by the House will help defend the private property rights of every American that are essential to our way of life," Congressman Tom Cole said. On June 23, the Supreme Court, in a 5 to 4 decision in Kelo v. City of New London, held that “economic development” can be a “public use” under the Fifth Amendment’s Takings Clause. In doing so, the Supreme Court allowed the government to take private property from one homeowner and give it to a large corporation for a private research facility. "This is not what our Founding Fathers intended when they wrote the 5th Amendment. The Takings Clause was designed to protect private ownership, not to outline the conditions for its destruction," Congressman Tom Cole said. H.R. 4128 protects private property rights by prohibiting states and localities from receiving any federal economic development funds for a specified period of time if such entities abuse their power of eminent domain, even if only state and local funds are used in that abuse of power. The policy is that states or localities that abuse their eminent domain power by using “economic development” as a rationale for a taking should not be trusted with federal “economic development” funds that could contribute to similarly abusive land grabs.###
10.28.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Cole announced that the Agriculture Funding Conference Report for FY06 (H.R. 2744), which passed in the House today, includes a waiver to allow Elgin to receive grants and loans through the Rural Community Advancement Program. Congressman Cole added this waiver that will make Elgin eligible for these grants until 2010. "I am very pleased that the agriculture funding bill included this important language to make rural develop grants available to the city of Elgin," Congressman Tom Cole said. "Rural communities, like Elgin, are vital to a solid future for Oklahoma. I will continue to work to make sure their individual needs are met." The agriculture funding bill provides funding for food safety and inspections, food and nutrition programs and funds to support America's farmers and ranchers. Once this legislation is passed by the Senate, it will go the President for his signature. ###
10.28.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Cole announced that the Agriculture Funding Conference Report for FY06 (H.R. 2744), which passed in the House today, includes a waiver to allow Lone Grove to receive grants and loans through the Rural Community Advancement Program. Congressman Cole added this waiver that will make Lone Grove eligible for these grants until 2010. "I am very pleased that the agriculture funding bill included this important language to make rural develop grants available to the city of Lone Grove," Congressman Tom Cole said. "Rural communities, like Lone Grove, are vital to a solid future for Oklahoma. I will continue to work to make sure their individual needs are met." The agriculture funding bill provides funding for food safety and inspections, food and nutrition programs and funds to support America's farmers and ranchers. Once this legislation is passed by the Senate, it will go the President for his signature. ###
10.27.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. --Congressman Tom Cole voted against a last minute effort to stop the 2005 round of base closures and realignments (BRAC) and reject the recommendations from the BRAC commission, today. The legislation disapproving of the commission's recommendations, H.J. Res. 65, failed in the House, which is essentially the last step in the process. The commission's recommendations will now be implemented. "By rejecting this resolution the House gave its stamp of approval to continue with the 2005 round of base closures and realignments. This was the last major hurdle in the BRAC process for this round. The Pentagon will now move forward with implementing the recommendations, which is very good news for our home state," Congressman Tom Cole said. "The Pentagon and BRAC recommendations are very beneficial for Oklahoma and will yield an increase in both jobs and missions in our state." The nation's military installations have gone through several rounds of base realignments and closures. During each round major installations from around the country were closed, but Oklahoma bases have survived. "The fact that Oklahoma is one of the few states that has never lost a major installation says a lot about the quality of our bases in Oklahoma. And, with the 2005 BRAC round nearing completion, Oklahoma's bases will be safe for a long time to come. At this point, there is not another BRAC round even authorized by Congress," Congressman Tom Cole said. "I want to congratulate all the people, communities and state and local officials that have worked over the years to help our bases prepare for the BRAC process. Particularly, I would like to thank the Oklahoma congressional delegation for their dedication to the bases in Oklahoma," Congressman Tom Cole said. According to the final BRAC Commission report, Fort Sill in Lawton gained a total of 3,445 military jobs and 105 civilian jobs. They also gained an Air Defense Artillery Center and School and the Net Fires Center. Vance Air Force Base will gain a total of 99 jobs. Oklahoma will have a net gain of 3,380 jobs. ###
09.23.2005	Washington D.C.--Congressman Tom Cole was appointed to the Gas Price Task Force yesterday by House Majority Whip Roy Blunt (Mo.). This task force will be dedicated to immediate action to ease the widespread fuel supply crisis occurring throughout much of the nation. "I am looking forward to working with this task force to better understand the sharp increase in gas prices and find practical solutions that will ease the prices at the pump," Congressman Tom Cole said. "The nation has been seeing steadily increasing gas prices over the past year and more recently a big jump in prices due to Hurricane Katrina. This task force is even more critical as Hurricane Rita powers toward Texas where a large percentage of our nation's refineries our located." "I am very pleased that Congressman Cole joined our task force to help address this serious issue. Oklahoma is a large oil and gas producing state and his insight will be beneficial to our task force," Majority Whip Roy Blunt said. "In the wake of the Katrina Disaster, the information drawn from this Task Force will help us find reasonable solutions to rising prices, helping Americans and their families now and in the future." The Gas Price Task Force, comprised of Blunt and Representatives Vito Fossella (N.Y.), Steve Pearce (NM), Darrell Issa (Calif.), Robin Hayes (N.C.), Paul Ryan (Wisc.), Jerry Moran (KS), Jack Kingston (GA) and Eric Cantor (Va.) and Tom Cole (OK) plan to work together to find solutions on pricing, supply, and regulatory issues. "We want to make sure the recent spike in gas prices is just that, and not an enduring trend. The Energy Policy Act of 2005, passed by Congress in July, will help alleviate some of these problems long term, but we need to help people now," Congressman Tom Cole said. The Gas Price Task Force sent a letter to Federal Trade Commission Chair Deborah Platt Majoras asking her to report on the following questions: Ø What has the FTC’s Gasoline Price Monitoring Project revealed in the weeks since Hurricane Katrina? Ø What is the FTC’s analysis on the fluctuation of prices at the wholesale level since Hurricane Katrina?Ø Can the FTC provide an analysis of changes in gasoline inventories the week before Hurricane Katrina and the week following Hurricane Katrina? Is there an analysis of how inventories affected price?Ø Data indicates that while prices jumped 44 cents between August 29 and September 2 for branded stations – or those flying the flag of a major refiner – wholesale prices for unbranded (independent) stores rose 73 cents per gallon. What is the FTC’s explanation for such a large discrepancy?###
09.22.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Tom Cole, along with members from Louisiana, introduced legislation last week, H.R. 3788 that would allow the Secretary of Education to waive the continuous service requirements of the Federal Teacher Loan Forgiveness Program for teachers whose employment is interrupted by a major disaster. The "Teacher Loan Hurricane and Disaster Relief" bill will help teachers who lost their jobs because of Hurricane Katrina continue to participate in the Federal Teacher Loan Program, despite temporary loss of their job. "This is a small provision that will have a huge impact on teachers in the Gulf Coast. This legislation will enable them to continue to participate in the Federal Teacher Loan Forgiveness Program without penalty despite the requirement that you must remain employed for five consecutive years," Congressman Cole said. "Teachers should not be punished for an unavoidable natural disaster that leaves them temporarily without a job." The Federal Teacher Loan Forgiveness Program requires teachers to be full-time employees at a qualifying school for five complete and consecutive years to be eligible for loan forgiveness. This legislation would allow the Secretary of Education to waive the "consecutive" requirement for those affected by a natural disaster. According to the Department of Education between FY2001 and FY2003, approximately $11 million in teacher loans were forgiven. However, Education Department projections indicate that between FY2005 and FY2014, as more teachers become eligible, over $1.6 billion in teacher loans will be forgiven. It is also estimated that this year almost 30,000 teachers will qualify for this loan forgiveness. The Federal Teacher Loan Forgiveness Program encourages individuals to enter and continue in the teaching profession. Under this program, individuals who teach full-time for five consecutive complete academic years in certain elementary and secondary schools that serve low-income families and meet other qualifications may be eligible for forgiveness of up to $5,000, and in some cases up to $17,500, in principal and interest of their Direct Loan and/or Federal Family Education Loan Programs (FFELP) loans and certain consolidation loans. ###
09.15.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. --Congressman Tom Cole voted today for the Katrina Volunteer Protection Act 2005 (H.R. 3736) which passed in the House today. This legislation makes sure that everyone who helps those affected by Hurricane Katrina will be covered by some basic legal protections. "Thousands of volunteers have answered the call to help those suffering in the wake of Hurricane Katrina. Unfortunately, some volunteers are hindered in their efforts, or held back from joining the relief effort because of the threat of lawsuits. This legislation will close the gaps in existing law for those individuals and organizations wanting to help," Congressman Cole said. Under this legislation volunteers who act in good faith to assist the victims of Hurricane Katrina without compensation, do not have to worry about lawsuits unless they act in a willful, wanton, reckless or criminal manner. Many states’ tort laws, including Louisiana’s, are unclear regarding who would be covered under Good Samaritan protections and who would not. Congressman Cole has been working through Rules Committee to ensure that language in this legislation will cover all groups that provide assistance to Hurricane Katrina survivors, including tribal entities and faith-based organizations. "It is imperative we provide these organizations, such as local governments, faith-based and non-profit organizations, Native American tribes and their volunteers an environment in which they may focus all their efforts and attention on the task at hand," Congressman Cole wrote in a letter to Speaker Hastert. "... these organizations and their volunteers are acting and spending their own money now. Congress has the chance to assist these organizations aid evacuees in an uninhibited and efficient manner." The threat of local lawsuits could hinder relief efforts. In addition, subsequently well-placed lawsuits could severely burden the federal government by substantively increasing recovery costs and further straining our deployed assets and resources. ###
09.08.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole announced today that all Oklahoma High School students are invited to attend Oklahoma Congressional Academy Day to learn about each academy and the application process. The Oklahoma Congressional Academy Day will be held at Rose State College in the Tom Steed Center Auditorium on September 17, 2005. "I would like to encourage anyone who would be interested in attending one of our military academies to participate in this event," Congressman Cole said. "Not only will you learn more about what each academy has to offer you will also be able to have one on one discussions with representatives from the academies." There will be a video presentation and a short speech from each of the representatives from the academies and a question and answer session. Also attending the event will be representatives from Congressional offices to help explain and answer questions about the application process.Oklahoma Congressional Academy DaySaturday, September 17, 2005 2 p.m.- 4 p.m.Rose State College Tom Steed Center Auditorium6420 SE 15th StreetMidwest City, OK 73110Note: Take the Hudiburg Drive exit off of I-40 between exit 156B and 157A For more information about the event please contact Amber Pollard at 580-436-5375. ###
09.08.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole joined other members of Congress today in signing a pledge to oppose any project or provision that is not directly related to the impact of Hurricane Katrina in any supplemental appropriations bill that provides funds for hurricane relief. In the past, some members of Congress have attached self-serving pork projects to fast-moving emergency spending bills that are guaranteed to pass through the House and the Senate. "The people that were affected by Hurricane Katrina are in desperate need of help now. Adding egregious projects to legislation that's only purpose is to help the survivors, hinders those efforts. I want to assure the taxpayers in my district that I will not support any provision that allows members to take advantage of emergency relief legislation," Congressman Cole said. "Adding to the deficit by adding on pork projects not only hurts the people affected by Hurricane Katrina and its aftermath, it hurts our country." The press conference was organized by the Council for Citizens Against Government Waste. Following is the text of the pledge that was singed by Representative Cole earlier today: I, Tom Cole, of the 4th district of the state of Oklahoma, hereby pledge to oppose any project or provision that is not directly related to the impact of Hurricane Katrina in any supplemental appropriations bill that provides funds for hurricane relief.I agree that in a time of national catastrophe, it is the responsibility of the UnitedStates Congress to take quick and decisive action to help those in need. I also agree that it is also the responsibility of the United States Congress to ensure the financial stability of the nation by being good stewards of Americans’ hard-earned tax dollars.Therefore, as Congress provides money to help victims in the Gulf States and to rebuild their lives and communities, I hereby promise the taxpayers in my district and the American people that I will oppose any and all projects or provisions unrelated to Hurricane Katrina in the supplemental appropriations bills. ###
09.08.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole voted today for a $51.8 billion supplemental appropriation package for immediate needs arising from the consequences of Hurricane Katrina. H.R. 3673 provides $50 billion for the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Disaster Relief Fund (DRF), $1.4 billion for the Department of Defense and $400 million for the Army Corps of Engineers to repair damaged infrastructure. "Hurricane Katrina is the most devastating storm in our nation's history, hundreds of thousands of people's lives have been altered. With this supplemental, Congress is showing its commitment to stand behind those affected by this storm every step of the way, no matter what the cost," Congressman Tom Cole said. H.R. 3673 includes reporting and accountability provisions to allow Congress to conduct oversight over the expenditure of taxpayer dollars. The bill requires the Chief of Engineers of the Army Corps of Engineers and the Department of Homeland Security to provide the Appropriations Committee a weekly report which details the allocation and obligation of the emergency funds. In addition, $15 million is provided within existing funds for the Inspector General of the Department of Homeland Security to monitor the disaster expenditures by FEMA and other relevant agencies. "We have added provisions to this legislation that ensure that the funds allocated will be spent in the most efficient manner. The Americans hurt by this disaster are in great need and we should not tolerate waste and abuse with these funds," Congressman Tom Cole said. Congressman Cole also voted for four additional pieces of legislation to help alleviate problems associated with Hurricane Katrina and its aftermath:H.R. 3669 will increase the amount FEMA can use to pay insurance claims related to flood insurance (National Flood Insurance Program) by $2 billion. H.R. 3668 allows the Secretary of Education to waiver repayment of federal aid by students whose attendance was interrupted because of the impact of a natural disaster on the student or the institution he or she was attending.H.R 3672 provides immediate payment of Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) funds for the first quarter of FY 2006 to all states, provides states with flexibility in spending TANF funds for families impacted by hurricane Katrina and makes additional TANF funds available to states devastated by Hurricane Katrina. H. Res. 428 expresses the House of Representatives' sincere gratitude to the foreign individuals, organizations and governments that have offered material assistance and other forms of support to those who have been affected by Hurricane Katrina.###
09.08.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Cole announced today that the Department of Health and Human Services has declared a public health emergency in Oklahoma. Declaration of a public health emergency streamlines procedures the government must follow in awarding grants or contracts to help prevent or treat health threats. "With this declaration by the Health and Human Services Department, doctors and other health care providers can continue their work without fear that government regulations will prevent them from being reimbursed for their supplies. This allows health care providers to work efficiently and quickly and without the burden of paperwork and other regulations while helping people affected by Hurricane Katrina," Representative Tom Cole said. According to the Secretary of Health and Human Services, a public health emergency act waivers section 1135 of the Social Security Act, "only to the extent necessary to ensure that sufficient health care items and services are available to meet the needs of individuals enrolled in Medicare, Medicaid and SCHIP programs and to ensure that health care providers that furnish such items and services in good faith, but are unable to comply with one or more of these requirements as a result of the effects of Hurricane Katrina, may be reimbursed for such items and services and exempted from sanctions for such noncompliance, absent from any determination of fraud and abuse. ###
09.06.2005	Washington DC- 1,400 Gulf Coast residents have been evacuated to Camp Gruber near Muskogee, Okla., with hundreds more expected. As many as 3,000 additional evacuees may be moved to Falls Creek, Okla., in the coming days. Congressman Tom Cole (OK-4) and Congressman Dan Boren (OK-2) released the following statement on Oklahoma's evacuee relief effort: "Hurricane Katrina and its aftermath have resulted in one of the biggest dislocations of our citizens in American history, rivaling the Great Depression and the Civil War," Cole said. "Tens of thousands of people have had their homes and businesses destroyed and will be unable to return home for months. The scope of this disaster is unprecedented in our modern history," Cole added "Oklahomans have responded to this national emergency like a family," Boren said. "We have opened our homes, churches and communities to come to the aide of thousands of displaced victims. We are extraordinarily proud of the way our state and her people are stepping forward to pick up our share of the burden, Boren continued." "There is a great deal of work that lies ahead for the Oklahoma delegation. We must continue to work together in a bipartisan manner to ensure communities, tribes and organizations stepping into the breach have the support – financial and otherwise – needed. This will be a costly and lengthy endeavor," Cole said. "Beyond the immediate needs of the hurricane victims, we need to make sure Oklahoma communities are getting the help they need as they provide schooling for children, medical attention and other assistance sure to be needed," Boren said. Boren and Cole pledged to continue to work together on a bipartisan basis. The best interests of all Oklahomans will be best served through cooperation, flexibility and creativity as the entire state tries to address the challenges of dealing with a large number of evacuees who need a great deal of help and the continued prayers of us all. ###
08.23.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole made the following statement today after a vote by the BRAC Commission to realign the Air Defense Artillery Center and School and the Net Fires Center to Fort Sill. "I am very pleased that the BRAC Commission's initial vote accepted the Department of Defense's recommendations concerning the ADA School and the new Net Fires Center. I have been working with the Pentagon over the past few years on this and I believe this is a tremendous gain for Fort Sill. This will bring both military and civilian jobs to the Fort Sill area and will add a new and critical center to Fort Sill that will surely increase its value to the American military." "Although this is a major hurdle and a great victory, one thing I have learned on Rules Committee is its not over until it's over. The BRAC Commission will continue voting through the weekend and final recommendations will not be guaranteed until then," Congressman Cole said. The BRAC Commission will be holding final deliberations and decision on Wednesday, August 24 - Saturday, August 27. The BRAC Commission's final recommendations must be approved by the President and by Congress. Based on the Pentagon's BRAC Decisions, Fort Sill will gain an estimated 3,444 military jobs and 161 civilian jobs in the BRAC process. ###
07.29.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole was able to secure $2.4 million for enhancements to Highway 19 from Ada to Stratford in the Transportation Reauthorization Conference Report that passed in the House today. The Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (H.R. 3) was reconciled in a House-Senate conference committee and upon Senate passage will now go to the President. "These funds will help alleviate safety and traffic impediments for travelers between Stratford and Ada. Traffic volumes have grown considerably over the past ten years on SH 19 and it now requires upgrades to keep it safe for drivers," Congressman Cole said. These funds will be used to make improvements to State Highway 19 beginning at SH 19/US 177 intersection in Stratford, OK, and extending east approximately 14 miles to the SH 19/SH 3W interchange in Ada, These funds will be used for part of an ongoing project to widen the road that connects Stratford to Ada. SH 19 provides the most direct route west from Ada to I-35. Congressman Cole was able to include $35.4 million for priority projects in Oklahoma's Fourth Congressional District in The Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (H.R. 3). "Thanks to the leadership of our own Senator Inhofe, Oklahoma will be getting more money back per dollar from what we pay in gasoline taxes. Also, Senator Inhofe was able to greatly boost the amount that our state will be receiving for specific projects. His hard work on this bill shows his commitment to making Oklahoma a better place to live," Congressman Tom Cole said. "Another champion for Oklahoma roads during this process has been ODOT Director Gary Ridley. He has been an instrumental voice in getting these funds directed to priority projects in Oklahoma." An agreement was reached during conference negations to raise the amount of aid states receive from the federal Highway Trust fund. Oklahoma currently receives 90.5 cents back for every dollar the state pays in gasoline tax. This legislation will increase that amount to 92 cents for every dollar by FY2008. "Today the joint efforts of the Oklahoma Department of Transportation and our state's representatives and senators have paid off. The projects identified in this bill are important for the safety of Oklahomans and the many other travelers that pass through our state," Oklahoma Department of Transportation Director Gary Ridley said.###
07.29.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole was able to secure $26 million for the Norman area in the Transportation Reauthorization Conference Report that passed in the House today. The Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (H.R. 3) was reconciled in a House-Senate conference committee and upon Senate passage will now go to the President. "These funds will help alleviate safety and traffic impediments for the Norman community. I am very pleased that these funds will be sufficient to complete the grade separation on Robinson Street in order to prevent railroad traffic from blocking vehicles from crossing Robinson Street which congests west and east bound traffic flows in Norman," Congressman Cole said. H.R. 3 will provide $10 million for intersection improvements and a grade separation on Robinson Street from US-77 to Stubbeman Avenue. Congressman Cole was also able to secure $1 million last year in the transportation spending bill for this project. "The Robinson Street project will provide for vital uninterrupted emergency access to the hospital complex. It will also help eliminate delays for police and fire emergency personnel that occur when trains cross the current at-grade crossing," Congressman Tom Cole said. The Transportation Reauthorization bill also provides $4 million for the reconstruction of the I-35/SH 9 West Interchange in McClain County immediately south of the South Canadian River Bridge. "This project will provide for safer and more efficient movements for goods and travelers on this heavily traveled corridor. With improvements this road will be able to serve more people in a safe and efficient manner," Congressman Cole said. Also included in the bill is $12 million for research to be conducted at the University of Oklahoma on the global tracking of cargo. Congressman Cole was able to include $35.4 million for priority projects in Oklahoma's Fourth Congressional District in The Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (H.R. 3). "Thanks to the leadership of our own Senator Inhofe, Oklahoma will be getting more money back per dollar from what we pay in gasoline taxes. Also, Senator Inhofe was able to greatly boost the amount our state will be receiving for specific projects. His hard work on this bill shows his commitment to making Oklahoma a better place to live," Congressman Tom Cole said. "Another champion for Oklahoma roads during this process has been ODOT Director Gary Ridley. He has been an instrumental voice in getting these funds directed to priority projects in Oklahoma." An agreement was reached during conference negations to raise the amount of aid states receive from the federal Highway Trust fund. Oklahoma currently receives 90.5 cents back for every dollar the state pays in gasoline tax. This legislation will increase that amount to 92 cents for every dollar by FY2008. "Today the joint efforts of the Oklahoma Department of Transportation and our state's representatives and senators have paid off. The projects identified in this bill are important for the safety of Oklahomans and the many other travelers that pass through our state," Oklahoma Department of Transportation Director Gary Ridley said.###
07.29.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole was able to secure $1 million for reconstruction of the I-44/Fort Sill Key Gate interchange in the Transportation Reauthorization Conference Report that passed in the House today. The Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (H.R. 3) is expected to pass in the Senate soon and will then be sent to the President. "The reconstruction of this interchange serves two primary benefits safety and increased access for the efficient transportation of military goods. I am very pleased these funds were included in the final version of this legislation, so the people of Lawton-Fort Sill can move forward with this project," Congressman Cole said. Plans for this project call for the reconstruction of the I-44/Fort Sill Key Gate interchange on the east side of the main portion of Ft. Sill. The project will include design features to enhance clearances for the movement of military goods for both highway and rail movements. Congressman Cole was able to include $35.4 million for priority projects in Oklahoma's Fourth Congressional District in The Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (H.R. 3). "Thanks to the leadership of our own Senator Inhofe, Oklahoma will be getting more money back per dollar from what we pay in gasoline taxes. Also, Senator Inhofe was able to greatly boost the amount our state will be receiving for specific projects. His hard work on this bill shows his commitment to making Oklahoma a better place to live," Congressman Tom Cole said. "Another champion for Oklahoma roads during this process has been ODOT Director Gary Ridley. He has been an instrumental voice in getting these funds directed to priority projects in Oklahoma." An agreement was reached during conference negations to raise the amount of aid states receive from the federal Highway Trust fund. Oklahoma currently receives 90.5 cents back for every dollar the state pays in gasoline tax. This legislation will increase that amount to 92 cents for every dollar by FY2008. "Today the joint efforts of the Oklahoma Department of Transportation and our state's representatives and senators have paid off. The projects identified in this bill are important for the safety of Oklahomans and the many other travelers that pass through our state," Oklahoma Department of Transportation Director Gary Ridley said.###
07.29.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole was able to secure $1 million for walkways in Midwest City in the Transportation Reauthorization Conference Report that passed in the House today. The Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (H.R. 3) was reconciled in a House-Senate conference committee and upon Senate passage will now go to the President. "These funds will be used to make walkways along major streets in Midwest City to encourage alternate methods of transportation and exercise. By promoting alternative forms of transportation that inadvertently encourage physical exercise, reduce traffic congestion and improve air quality, Midwest City's quality of life will be improved," Congressman Cole said. The City of Midwest City is planning on undertaking a long-term project to create a network of pedestrian trails along all major streets, which will connect neighborhoods, schools, commercial areas and major employers. The trails would also be located on bus routes. Pedestrian trails are planned for all arterial streets in Midwest City that currently do not have paved pedestrian access. Congressman Cole was able to include $35.4 million for priority projects in Oklahoma's Fourth Congressional District in The Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (H.R. 3). "Thanks to the leadership of our own Senator Inhofe, Oklahoma will be getting more money back per dollar from what we pay in gasoline taxes. Also, Senator Inhofe was able to greatly boost the amount our state will be receiving for specific projects. His hard work on this bill shows his commitment to making Oklahoma a better place to live," Congressman Tom Cole said. "Another champion for Oklahoma roads during this process has been ODOT Director Gary Ridley. He has been an instrumental voice in getting these funds directed to priority projects in Oklahoma." An agreement was reached during conference negations to raise the amount of aid states receive from the federal Highway Trust fund. Oklahoma currently receives 90.5 cents back for every dollar the state pays in gasoline tax. This legislation will increase that amount to 92 cents for every dollar by FY2008. "Today the joint efforts of the Oklahoma Department of Transportation and our state's representatives and senators have paid off. The projects identified in this bill are important for the safety of Oklahomans and the many other travelers that pass through our state," Oklahoma Department of Transportation Director Gary Ridley said.###
07.29.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole was able to secure $3 million for the construction of a bypass grade separation in Duncan in the Transportation Reauthorization Conference Report that passed in the House today. The Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (H.R. 3) was reconciled in a House-Senate conference committee and upon Senate passage will now go to the President. "Traffic volumes have grown considerably over the past ten years on US 81 and it has become increasingly important to construct a bypass. There have been numerous fatalities on this road that could be avoided. These funds will help alleviate safety and traffic impediments for the Duncan community and the many travelers between Oklahoma and Texas," Congressman Cole said. This project will improve grade separation access on the west side of Duncan. The funds will help provide the Duncan bypass with and adequate and safe grade separation geometrics resulting in increased safety and improved traffic handling. Congressman Cole was able to include $35.4 million for priority projects in Oklahoma's Fourth Congressional District in The Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (H.R. 3). "Thanks to the leadership of our own Senator Inhofe, Oklahoma will be getting more money back per dollar that what we pay in gasoline taxes. Also, Senator Inhofe was able to greatly boost the amount our state will be receiving for specific projects. His hard work on this bill shows his commitment to making Oklahoma a better place to live," Congressman Tom Cole said. "Another champion for Oklahoma roads during this process has been ODOT Director Gary Ridley. He has been an instrumental voice in getting these funds directed to priority projects in Oklahoma." An agreement was reached during conference negations to raise the amount of aid states receive from the federal Highway Trust fund. Oklahoma currently receives 90.5 cents back for every dollar the state pays in gasoline tax. This legislation will increase that amount to 92 cents for every dollar by FY2008. "Today the joint efforts of the Oklahoma Department of Transportation and our state's representatives and senators have paid off. The projects identified in this bill are important for the safety of Oklahomans and the many other travelers that pass through our state," Oklahoma Department of Transportation Director Gary Ridley said.###
07.29.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole voted today for the House Transportation Reauthorization Conference Report (H.R. 3), which included millions of dollars for vital highway projects across Oklahoma. This legislation, which passed in the House today, was reconciled in a House-Senate conference committee and upon Senate passage will now go to the President. "Oklahoma's roads are in need of some drastic repairs and upgrades. I am very pleased to report that the bill we passed today includes more money for Oklahoma roads than any other highway bill in our history," Congressman Cole said. "In the Fourth Congressional District, these funds will help make life saving improvements to roads that have proven to be dangerous and inadequate to handle volumes of traffic." The Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (H.R. 3) provides $286.4 billion in federal highway for transit and road safety projects across the country through 2009.This legislation seeks to correct problems of congestion, driver safety, and inefficient highway projects, while creating millions of new U.S. jobs in the transportation sector and related industries. "Thanks to the leadership of our own Senator Inhofe, Oklahoma will be getting more money back per dollar from what we pay in gasoline taxes. Also, Senator Inhofe was able to greatly boost the amount our state will be receiving for specific projects. His hard work on this bill shows his commitment to making Oklahoma a better place to live," Congressman Tom Cole said. "Another champion for Oklahoma roads during this process has been ODOT Director Gary Ridley. He has been an instrumental voice in getting these funds directed to priority projects in Oklahoma." An agreement was reached during conference negations to raise the amount of aid states receive from the federal Highway Trust fund. Oklahoma currently receives 90.5 cents back for every dollar the state pays in gasoline tax. This legislation will increase that amount to 92 cents for every dollar by FY2008. "Today the joint efforts of the Oklahoma Department of Transportation and our state's representatives and senators have paid off. The projects identified in this bill are important for the safety of Oklahomans and the many other travelers that pass through our state," Oklahoma Department of Transportation Director Gary Ridley said. Congressman Cole was able to include the following funds for priority projects approved by the Oklahoma Department of Transportation.Complete Reconstruction of the I-35/SH 9 West Interchange, $4 million Construction of Duncan Bypass Grade Separation, $3 million Improvements at I-35 Interchange at Milepost 1 in Love County,$2 million Enhancements for Highway 19 from Ada to Stratford, $2.4 million Construction of Midwest City Pedestrian Walkway, $1 million Construction of Norman Grade Separation, $10 million Reconstruction of the I-44/Fort Sill Key Gate Interchange, $1 million Research to be conducted at the University of Oklahoma on the global tracking of cargo goods, $12 million ###
07.28.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Cole voted today for the Dominican Republic-Central American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA-DR) to reduce trade barriers and help promote American exports. Congressman Cole has spoken to numerous Oklahoma groups, including many agricultural groups, which have been supportive of this legislation. “Free and fair trade is a hallmark of all successful market economies. By removing barriers to foreign markets, we can increase exports and create jobs, across the country and here in Oklahoma," Congressman Cole said. "Reduced and eliminated tariffs on U.S. products will make them more affordable to consumers in Central America and the Dominican Republic. Increased consumer demand for U.S. products will generate more job growth." In 2004, Oklahoma exported $38 million worth of merchandise to the CAFTA-DR region (Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua.) According to the U.S. Department of Commerce, Oklahoma's 40 percent increase in exports to CAFTA-DR from 2003-2004 was the tenth fastest among the 50 states. The DR-CAFTA countries comprise the 2nd largest U.S. market in Latin America. "CAFTA-DR will boost Oklahoma's exports by providing new markets for our state's products. This free trade agreement will level the playing field by making a two-way-street that provides U.S. suppliers the same access as other competitors," Congressman Cole said. Despite over $1.6 billion in U.S. farm exports in 2003, CAFTA-DR countries continue to impose high tariffs and other barriers on most agricultural products, including Oklahoma’s key exports. Currently about 80 percent of the regions exports enter the United States duty-free, while U.S. goods exported to the CAFTA-DR regions face significant average tariffs. This free trade agreement would immediately provide duty-free treatment to 80 percent of U.S. industrial products and 50 percent of U.S. agricultural products exported to the region, with the remaining duties eliminated after 10 years. “CAFTA-DR is also very important from a national security standpoint because it supports democracies in Central America. CAFTA-DR's dual economic and social benefits are crucial to the future of our country. Improved economic conditions in the DR-CAFTA region will help to reduce the number of illegal immigrants looking for economic opportunities in the U.S," Congressman Tom Cole said. The Senate passed this legislation on June 30, 2005. It will now go to the President for his signature. ###
07.26.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole voted today for the Servicemembers’ Group Life Insurance Enhancement Act of 2005, H.R. 3200, which increases the maximum coverage available under the Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance and Veterans' Group Life Insurance programs from the current $250,000 ceiling to $400,000. Ninety-eight percent of all active duty personnel, including mobilized reservists, participate in the SGLI program. "The purpose of these programs is to provide affordable life insurance to servicemembers and veterans who, given the inherent risks of military service, may not be able to get insurance. These men and women have dedicated their lives to our country and we need to make sure we take care of them and their families," Congressman Tom Cole said. These increases for servicemembers and veterans were enacted earlier this year in FY2005 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act (P.L. 109-13) and expire on September 30, 2005. H.R. 3200 will make them permanent. Additionally, the bill boosts the incremental increases in both of these life insurance programs from the current $10,000 to $50,000. The new maximums will go into effect on September 1, 2005. The coverage of all policies in force, regardless of coverage amount, would immediately be changed to the maximum $400,000. Policyholders will then have the opportunity to decrease coverage if they choose. H.R. 3200 must now pass in the Senate. ###
07.22.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole announced today that the Valero refinery in Ardmore will be designated as a foreign trade subzone by the Department of Commerce. The Ardmore refinery and the Wynnewood and Blue Ribbon storage terminals (3 sites totaling 753.67 acres) will be authorized as a subzone of Foreign Trade Zone No. 227 in Durant. "This is great news for the city of Ardmore, Valero and Rural Enterprises who have been working together to make this happen. Under the Foreign Trade Zone status, international business will be easier and faster," Congressman Tom Cole said. "Foreign-Trade Zone benefits will also enable the company to be more competitive in the world marketplace while retaining its refining capabilities in the U.S." Zone status will help the Ardmore complex lower its operating costs, thereby maintaining its ability to contribute to the region in retaining manufacturing production capabilities, maintaining and increasing jobs, and contributing to the local and national economies. “The Valero project is a product of clustered economic efforts coming from Ardmore Development Authority, Oklahoma Department of Commerce, local communities and other economic development organizations in Oklahoma. REI continues to reinvent the rural economy of Oklahoma through major projects that stimulate innovation, productivity and regional growth,” Tom S. Smith, President/CEO, Rural Enterprises Incorporate, said. Foreign Trade Zones (FTZ's) were created in the United States to provide special customs procedures to U.S. plants engaged in international trade-related activities. FTZs are considered to be outside of U.S. Customs Territory for the purpose of customs duty payment. Goods entering FTZs are not subject to customs tariffs until the goods leave the zone and are formally entered into U.S. Customs Territory. Merchandise that is shipped to foreign countries from FTZs is exempt from duty payments. "We want to thank Congressman Cole for his leadership in the effort to have our refinery declared a Foreign Trade Zone," said Gary Simmons, vice president and general manager of Valero's Ardmore refinery. "This designation is very important to our operations because it will enhance our ability to remain competitive, which will allow for continued job growth and charitable contributions that will benefit the entire Ardmore community." The Ardmore refinery, which employs approximately 250 individuals, is a leader in the production of clean-burning fuels. Its products include conventional gasoline, diesel, low-sulfur gasoline, asphalt and refinery-grade propylene. In addition to production and processing, the refinery also has more than 2.4 million barrels of refined product storage. ###
07.14.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Yesterday Representative Tom Cole voted for H.R. 1220, the Veterans’ Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2005, which passed the House by voice vote. “We have an important commitment to America’s most honored heroes, our veterans. This cost-of-living adjustment helps make good on our promise to them. After serving our country, they deserve nothing less," Congressman Tom Cole said. H.R. 1220 will provide a cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) to disability compensation rates for veterans with service-connected disabilities equal to the adjustment provided under Social Security, which is calculated based upon changes in the Consumer Price Index. The specific amount will be determined later this year by the Social Security Administration and the Veterans Administration. The Veterans’ Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2005 will provide a COLA to the rate of indemnity compensation for survivors of certain disabled veterans. The legislation also authorizes a 2-year project for improvement of business practices in the Veterans Health Administration and permanently authorizes six Parkinson’s Disease Research Educational and Clinical Centers. This legislation must now pass in the Senate. ###
07.14.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Cole voted today for the Water Resources Development Act that will eliminate the obligation of Waurika Project Master Conservancy District to pay its outstanding debt incurred during the construction of a water conveyance project at Waurika Lake. This has the potential to give the Waurika Project Master Conservancy District the ability to redistribute funds back to their member cities. "This is great news for the cities that are served by the Waurika Project Master Conversancy District. It means this money will no longer come from their pockets," Congressman Tom Cole said. The Waurika Lake Master Conservancy District includes Comanche, Duncan, Lawton-Ft. Sill, Temple, Walters, Waurika and other surrounding communities. The six communities formed the District to contract with the Corps of Engineers to build the water delivery system. The Waurika Project Master Conservancy District operates the water delivery system and is the debt paying agency to the Corps of Engineers. "We are thrilled to see the Water Resources Development Act pass. This has been a tremendous team effort on the part of Congressman Cole, Senator Inhofe and the people of this region. The language in this legislation will allow us to return funds to our member cities," Dave Taylor, District Manager, Waurika Project Master Conservancy District, said. This legislation will now be debated in the Senate. ###
06.29.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole recently voted for the FY 2006 Science, State, Justice and Commerce Appropriations Act that will provide $2 million dollars for the Phase Array Radar in Norman. "This test-bed project seeks to develop weather surveillance capabilities that will point the way to the nation's next operational weather radar system, while at the same time seeking to develop prototype capabilities for aircraft tracking," Congressman Cole said. "The Phased Array Radar put Norman on the map as the capital of weather research and technology. The joint efforts of the weather center and the University of Oklahoma will enhance our understanding of storms, leading to more accurate and timely forecasts and the saving of lives by giving people more lead time to prepare for storms," Congressman Tom Cole said. "I am very pleased these funds were included in the House passed version of this bill and will work to ensure the funds are included in the Senate version of the bill as well." These funds will be used to demonstrate the multi-function capability of Phased Array Radar technology for weather and aircraft surveillance. This legislation must now be debated in the Senate. ###
06.29.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Tom Cole recently introduced legislation that will require a study to be conducted by the Secretary of Interior to determine the suitability of designating the Chisholm and Great Western Cattle Trails as part of the National Trails System as National Historic Trails. "It is time to ensure the preservation and recognition of this important piece of Oklahoma history, and indeed, the history of the country. Future American generations deserve to know the importance and origins of the almost mythical cowboy, and their contributions to ensuring the recovery and prosperity of America after the Civil War," Congressman Cole said. "Recent responses to Steven Speilberg’s television series, “Into the West” and the commercial success of movies like Larry McMurtry’s “Lonesome Dove” demonstrate a keen interest and desire to learn more about the unique development of the American West. Since the Chisholm Trail, traversing three states, was an original transportation route responsible for the largest migration of cattle in history spawning the beef industry as well as the legend of the American cowboy, it should be appropriately recognized for its substantial contribution in shaping the profile of our nation," said Dianne Stuart, Program Director at Chisholm Trail Heritage Center. The Chisholm and Great Western Cattle Trails were used in full force during the years between the late 1860's and the late 1880's by Texas cattlemen to bring their herds to the high-demand consumers in the east. These trails started in Texas from several feeders, and journeyed north, parallel to one another, through Oklahoma to railroad depots in Kansas. Here the cattle were transported via railroad to the east. "These two trails played a central role in helping the country's economic recovery after the Civil War and helped contribute to making the legend of the cowboy," Congressman Tom Cole said. This bill requires that a study must be submitted to Congress within three years of enactment of the legislation. ###
06.24.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Tom Cole voted today for the FY06 Labor, HHS, Education Appropriations Act (H.R. 3010) which will provide funding for important education and health programs. This legislation includes funding for TRIO, GEAR UP and for the Carl Perkins Vocational and Technical grant program. "This is a fiscally responsible bill that meets our nation's priorities in education, advancing medical research and a variety of health programs," Congressman Cole said. "I am very pleased that the House restored TRIO and GEAR UP funding, which is vital in helping underprivileged students attend college." Congressman Cole led a bi-partisan effort to ensure that funding for TRIO and GEAR UP would not be cut as proposed in the President's budget. He sent a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Labor, HHS and Education Subcommittee, that was signed by 167 members, urging them to continue funding these programs. "Both of TRIO and GEAR UP have made a significant impact in lives of Oklahoma students," Congressman Tom Cole said. "Through the personal stories of students and faculty and state-wide statistics, the success of these two programs is evident. I truly believe that TRIO and GEAR UP programs are an investment in our state's and country's future and that it is worth the price." H.R. 3010 funds TRIO at $836.54 million, which is $467 million above the President's budget request. GEAR UP is funded at $306.48 million and the Carl Perkins Vocational and Technical grants program at $1.19 billion. The FY06 Labor, HHS, Education Appropriations Act also included funding for impact aid ($1.24 billion), special education grants ($10.7 billion), Head Start ($6.9 billion), Medicare prescription drug benefit implementation ($890 million) and Community Health Centers ($1.8 billion). This legislation must now be considered by the Senate.###
06.22.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. -Today Congressman Tom Cole voted for H.J. Res. 10, which proposes an amendment to the Constitution that would authorize Congress to prohibit the physical desecration of the flag of the United States. "Americans of all ages are troubled when the American flag is not respected. It is not only the physical act that is appalling, it is the fact that purposefully destroying the flag runs counter to the ideals of our great nation that people have given their lives for centuries to protect," Congressman Cole said. “The flag is a symbol of what we stand for as a nation and as a people. It is an enduring symbol of liberty, democracy and justice--all things in which we hold dear." "The flag is the symbol of the nation that allows peaceful dissent to all its people. It should never be desecrated by dissentients, who use the very freedom the flag represents to voice their views," Congressman Cole declared. In 1989 the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that burning the U.S. flag, as part of a political demonstration, was expressive conduct protected by the First Amendment. Since then neither states nor the federal government have been able to prohibit the desecration of the flag. In order to be enacted into law, H.J. Res. 10 will also have to be adopted by a two-thirds majority in the House and Senate, and then ratified by three-fourths of America’s state legislatures. ###
06.21.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Cole announced today that both TRIO and GEAR UP are funded in the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2006 that will be debated in the House this week. "I believe both of these programs have proved they are effective and successful, and I am very pleased that they are funded in the bill reported out of committee. This is a very good sign for TRIO and GEAR UP. The House will be debating this legislation this week and the Senate will hopefully follow suit in the next few months," Congressman Cole said. Earlier this year, the President's budget proposed cutting funding for this education program that helps underprivileged students attend college. Congressman Cole led a bi-partisan effort to ensure the funding was not eliminated. He sent a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Labor, HHS and Education Subcommittee, that was signed by 167 members, urging them to continue funding these programs. "Oklahoma has successfully utilized TRIO and GEAR UP to meet the needs of its students. I have spoken to many university presidents, administrators, and faculty in Oklahoma, as well as the students who sing the praises of TRIO and GEAR UP. From their personal stories it is evident that these programs are a wise investment," Congressman Cole said. In the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, TRIO is funded at $836.54 million, which is $467 million above President's budget request. GEAR UP is funded at $306.48 million, which is $306.48 million above President's budget request. ###
06.16.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Cole voted today for legislation that will enhance the Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) program. The FY 2006 Science, State, Justice and Commerce Appropriations Act funds the MEP at $106 million. "Manufacturing exports made up 91 percent of Oklahoma's total international exports in 2003.The MEP program helps small and medium-sized manufacturers compete on a global level, which is important to the success of the manufacturing industry in Oklahoma," Congressman Cole said. The Manufacturing Extension Partnership serves firms throughout Oklahoma via a network of 19 Manufacturing Extension Agents and 5 Applications Engineers. The Manufacturing Extension Partnership is a network of not-for-profit centers in nearly 350 locations nationwide representing almost 99 percent of all manufacturing establishments. These establishments employ 11 million people and account for two-thirds of all U.S. manufacturing employment. Each center works directly with local manufacturers to help them improve manufacturing processes, train workers, improve business practices, and apply information technology to their companies. This bill must now be considered by the Senate. ###
06.16.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Cole spoke on the House floor today in support of the rule for the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (H.R. 2863). As a member of the Rules Committee, Congressman Cole has a voice in determining the rule, which sets the terms of debate on the Floor. A rule must be passed before the actual piece of legislation is debatable. The Department of Defense Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2006 includes $50 million above the president's request of $108 million for the non-line-of-site cannon. These additional funds were included at the request of Congressman Tom Cole. Following is Congressman Cole's statement in support of the rule providing for consideration of H.R. 2863: "Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the rule for H.R. 2863 and the underlying bill. This important legislation takes dramatic steps to further prosecute the global War on Terror, enhance our security and improve the lives of our service men and women. It's a bill that fundamentally addresses many of the transformative challenges faced by our military in the future and implements many measures to meet those challenges. Mr. Speaker, the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee and the full Appropriations Committee have presented us with an excellent bill. This bill provides us with a way to meet many of the current challenges that we face by addressing the immediate requirements of our forces as well as the ongoing need to transform our military through the adoption of new technology, advanced methods of warfare, and innovating changes in military doctrine. To fully appreciate the significance of H.R. 2863, one must understand the four long-term challenges that we seek to address in this legislation. The first long-term challenge is a direct result of the procurement holiday that was taken by our country in the 1990's. To understand the consequences of shortchanging our military during this era, one need only recall the ammunition accounts as they were funded or perhaps better described as not funded during this period. The failure to maintain adequate stocks of ammunition is a shortcoming we are only now beginning to overcome. Additionally, one can see the adverse effects that a constant surge of deployments in the 1990's had upon the maintenance levels of our hardware. This bill takes important steps to rectify that problem associated with the procurement holiday. Mr. Speaker, the second long-term challenge we must address on a continual basis is related to the transformation of our military forces. The famous Goldwater-Nickels legislation of 1986 altered the manner in which we organized to fight wars and committed us to transforming the nature of our forces. Transformation demands an ongoing strategic and tactical review of our needs in relation to technology, procurement, and the development of joint war fighting capabilities. Each service, all our units, and all our equipment must complement one another and contribute to the increased effectiveness of our forces. Transformation is not a goal in and of itself. It's a process of continuous change and adaptation that makes our forces more effective. This is an issue -- or forces more effective. This is an issue we must address on an ongoing basis. H.R. 2863 does just that. Mr. Speaker, the third long-term challenge we face is related to our force structure and manpower requirements. This legislation, while meeting the requests of the president's budget, also continues to fund additional forces required to prosecute the global War on Terror. This is a good start. In future years, we will need to closely examine and I believe increase the size of our forces. There's no short-term easy solution to recruiting and maintaining the larger forces I personally believe we will need in the dangerous world in which we live. Still H.R. 2863 is a good interim step. . .one which we should take and support and build on in the coming years.The fourth long-term challenge faced by the military results from the global war on terror. This is not a conventional war. We're not fighting a nation state. We're fighting the adherents of a fanatical ideology that transcends national borders and takes root whenever and wherever it can. We're involved in a generational war against these fanatics that will last for decades. It will require a wide range of diplomatic, developmental, intelligence, communications and civil affairs tools and activities to win. The military component of this effort will be expensive and ever-changing. Hence, I believe we took a wise and important step when we added $45.3 billion in bridge funding and emergency wartime appropriations to this defense bill. It's something that indicates our understanding of the long-term nature of the challenge we face and our determination to commit the resources needed to be successful.Today, some members may wish to have a broad discussion on the situation in Iraq. I welcome that debate and the open rule attached to this legislation will allow that discussion. However, in the end, this bill is not about Iraq. It's about providing the men and women who defend our country with the tools they need to prevail against those who would do harm to the United States. After the collapse of the old Soviet Union, we took our security for granted and we under funded the military for a decade. September 11, 2001, taught us the folly of our assumptions in that regard. Since that time, the Administration and the Congress have made the tough decisions needed to rebuild our military and expand its capabilities while waging a war on terror. This bill is another step in that process. It is well crafted, essentially bipartisan and moves us in the proper direction. Once passed, this legislation will enhance our security, enable us to fight the War on Terror, and improve the quality of life for our service men and women. Mr. Speaker, to that end, I urge support for the rule and the underlying bill and I reserve the balance of my time." ###
06.08.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Tom Cole today congratulated two Carl Albert students, Jacqueline LeClair and Kellen Curry, on their appointment to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Cole nominated LeClair and Curry to the Air Force Academy entering class of 2005. "Receiving an academy appointment is a great honor. I wish Jacqueline and Kellen the best as they serve their country proudly in the Air Force. Their commendable decision to attend the Air Force academy will make their family and state very proud," Congressman Tom Cole said. LeClair and Curry are both 2004 graduates of Carl Albert High School and have been attending the United States Air Force Preparatory School. "Military service to our nation is one of the most admirable careers to which one can dedicate one's life. We enjoy so many freedoms here in the United States, such as freedom of religion, that are unheard of in other countries. I want to give back to my country in the same generous fashion in which it has given to me," LeClair said. LeClair is the daughter of Joe and Lou Ann LeClair. Kellen is the son of John and Celeste Curry. "All of my life I've been around the military. Both of my parents and grandfather are military men and women. The military life style was instilled in me at a young age and is something that I take pride in," Kellen Curry said.###
06.08.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Tom Cole today congratulated Garret Dresel on his appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point. Cole nominated Dresel to the U.S. Military Academy entering class of 2005. "Garret Dresel has shown strong character and leadership skills during his many extra curricular activities. I congratulate him for his appointment and wish him the best as he attends West Point," Congressman Tom Cole said. Dresel graduated from Mustang High School in 2004. ###
05.26.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. --Congressman Cole announced today the funds for military installations in Oklahoma's Fourth Congressional District that were included in the FY2006 Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Act (H.R. 2528). There was over $29 million included for Ft. Sill, $31 million for Tinker Air Force Base and over $7 million for other facilities in Oklahoma. Congressman Cole worked to include these funds in H.R. 2528 that passed today in the U.S. House. "These funds will go directly to Fort Sill and Tinker for priority projects already identified by the base. Our military instillations have shown tremendous strength during recent base closure announcements, and with these funds they will be able to continue to make improvements to their facilities," Congressman Tom Cole said. The following projects were included in H.R. 2528 for Oklahoma's Fourth Congressional District:· $3.15 million to build a fire station on base that meets air force safety requirements;· $2.7 million for Rail Road Equipment Facility at Fort Sill;· $24 million for family housing at Fort Sill;· $11.96 million for 31st Combat Communication Squadron Operations Complex at Tinker Air Force Base;· $20 million for the second phase of upgrades to the Building 3001 infrastructure.Also included in H.R. 2528 for other facilities in Oklahoma:$1.172 million to replace the Composite Aircraft Maintenance Complex at Will Rogers Airport; $5.4 million for an Ammunition Container Facility at McAlester Army Ammunition Plant; $1.1 million for a High Explosive Magazine Instillation at McAlester Army Ammunition Plant. The legislation passed in the house today also included an increase in funding for many veterans programs. Veterans Medical Service's funding was increased by $1.64 billion above last year's budget. Funding for mental health research was doubled, and for the first time ever, $2.2 billion was specifically appropriated for specialty mental health care. Also, veteran benefits were increased by $1.5 billion over last year, reflecting expanded benefits for Guard and Reserve personnel. "Over the last five year, funding for Veterans Medical Services has increased by 40% and funding for the Department of Defense Health Program has increased by 65%. I will continue to work to put the needs of Americans men and women in uniform and our veterans at the forefront of our legislative agenda," Congressman Tom Cole said. This legislation must now be considered by the Senate. ###
05.25.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Cole announced today that the Energy and Water Appropriations legislation passed yesterday in the House included over $13 million in projects for Oklahoma's Fourth Congressional District, including $1 million for the single-walled carbon nanotubes project at the University of Oklahoma that was included by Congressman Cole. "I am very pleased that these funds are included in the House version of this legislation," Congressman Cole said. "I will continue working to make sure these funds are included in the final legislation." The single-walled carbon nanotubes project complements the Department of Energy's Nanotechnology Initiatives as well as the Hydrogen Fuel Economy Initiative. This project will also aid national priorities by improving stealth technology and better electrical cables for rebuilding the nation's electoral grid, as well as improved detection of cancers. "The University of Oklahoma is a leader in producing large quantities of highly pure, well characterized, single-walled carbon nanotubes. These funds will help them further advance their research. Eventually nanotechnology could have an impact on almost every industry in all areas of society." Single walled carbon nanotubes conduct heat better than any other known material, including gold, and could lead to the development of thinner, lighter TVs and computer displays that use less power, thus making portable electronic devices more practical and powerful. Additional highlights in the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act of 2005 for Oklahoma's Fourth Congressional District:· $1,528,000 for Operations and Maintenance at Waurika Lake;· $4,815,000 for Operations and Maintenance at Webbers Falls Lock and Dam;· $5,569,000 for Operations and Maintenance at Denison Dam, Lake Texoma;· $200,000 for a Bureau of Reclamation project to regulate the flow of Rock Creek, a tributary of the Washita River in south-central Oklahoma;· $401,000 for an effort near Norman to revive dry lands through construction of water storage and irrigation facilities to provide stable, reliable sources of water for agricultural uses.###
05.25.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole voted for the Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (H.R. 1815) today that included an amendment that directs the Secretary of the Navy and the Secretary of Interior to move forward in the creation of a memorial for the U.S.S. Oklahoma. Congressman Cole was able to use his position on the powerful Rules Committee to have this amendment inserted into the bill. As point person on powerful Rules Committee for all defense issues, Congressman Cole led the debate on the rule for this legislation. A rule must be passed before the actual piece of legislation is debatable. "The language I was able to insert into the bill will get the ball rolling for the creation of a long-overdue U.S.S. Oklahoma memorial. This is a step in the right direction, in what will most likely be a long process," Congressman Tom Cole said. "With Memorial Day right around the corner, this is a way we can honor the men who served on the U.S.S. Oklahoma and ensure that their sacrifice is not forgotten." The amendment, offered by Congressman Cole, was included in the manager's amendment. It directs the Secretary of the Navy in consultation with the Secretary of Interior to identify a location for the U.S.S. Oklahoma and then submit to Congress within one year a plan to establish a memorial to the U.S.S. Oklahoma. The Defense Authorization Act also included $3.15 million for Ft. Sill to build a fire station on base to help better protect soldiers and equipment. The bill includes $10 million for Excalibur Life Cycle improvements. These funds will increase production quantities and create economic efficiencies for Excalibur artillery munitions. Congressman Cole was also able to secure $50 million over the President's request of $108 million for the non-line-of-site cannon (NLOS-C). A request by Congressman Tom Cole to split NLOS-C from the development track of the Future Combat Systems was also included in the 2006 Defense Authorization bill. ###
05.20.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Cole was recently appointed to the House Democracy Assistance Commission by Speaker Dennis Hastert. The announcement was made at a press conference on May 18, 2005. "I am very pleased to be appointed to this commission that has been charged with such an important job--to help foster democracy across the world," Congressman Cole said. "I have visited Iraq four times and Afghanistan once. These trips allowed me to witness the challenges a newly forming democracy encounters. I am proud to be a part of this group that will help make transitions like this a little easier." The House passed a resolution on March 14, 2005 to set up a House Democracy Assistance Commission. The commission members were chosen by the Speaker and Minority Leader of the House. There are a total of 16 members on the Commission. Central to the Commission’s work will be the provision of technical expertise enhancing accountability, transparency, legislative independence and government oversight. In a news release Speaker Hastert said, “I want to first thank Chairman Dreier for his willingness to head this effort and all of the Members of the House who’ve agreed to serve. Our most cherished values here in the United States lie in our democratic ideals of freedom, liberty and justice. They’re rights we often take for granted. We forget that in many parts of the world citizens can’t vote and dissension carries a huge penalty. For many of our global neighbors, democracy is still a new concept,” said Speaker Hastert. “It is my hope that this initiative will help the United States generate constructive dialogue where communication is needed most." The House Democracy Assistance Commission Resolution establishes in the House of Representatives a House Democracy Assistance Commission to: (1) work with the parliaments of selected countries that have established or are developing democratic parliaments which would benefit from assistance under this resolution; (2) enable Members, officers, and staff of the House of Representatives and congressional support agencies to provide expert advice to members and staff of the parliaments of such countries, including visits to the House and support agencies to observe their operations first-hand; and (3) make recommendations to the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) regarding the provision of needed material assistance to such parliaments to improve the efficiency and transparency of their work. The Commission will report to Congress annually. ###
05.20.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Cole announced today that $3.15 million for Ft. Sill to build a fire station was included in the Defense Authorization bill reported out of the Armed Services Committee Wednesday evening. Congressman Cole requested this project in a letter and in a meeting with Chairman Duncan Hunter. "I am pleased that both the House and the Senate included these funds in their respective Defense Authorization bills," Congressman Tom Cole said. "Having a fire station at Fort Sill will help better protect the soldiers and equipment on the post." A request by Congressman Tom Cole to split the non-line-of-site cannon (NLOS-C) from the development track of the Future Combat Systems (FCS) was also included in the 2006 Defense Authorization bill. This technical change will ensure more robust funding for NLOS-C than the President's Budget while manned ground vehicles are further delayed. The bill also includes provisions to ensure that NLOS-C will be powerful enough to remain a dominant weapon on the battlefield for many years. Congressman Cole was also able to secure $50 million over the President's request of $108 million for NLOS-C, although technical details outlining these funds will not be available until next week. As point person on Rules Committee for all defense issues, Congressman Cole has been working with the Armed Services Committee, especially Chairman Hunter, in the drafting process of the Defense Authorization in order to help craft the best piece of legislation that will be able to pass through Rules Committee and on the House floor. The House is expected to vote on the Defense Authorization Bill next week. ###
05.19.2005	Washington D.C. -- Congressman Tom Cole announced today that the Department of Justice Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS Office) will now be accepting applications for 2005 grants. "This is a great opportunity for local law enforcement departments to receive federal funds to supplement their local and state budgets," Congressman Cole said. "I encourage all local departments to take advantage of this program. If you need any assistance please don't hesitate to contact my office." There are three different types of grants available:Interoperable Communications Technology Program: Almost $100 million is available to law enforcement to improve communication and operations between law enforcement agencies and other first responders. Deadline for applying is July 15, 2005. Secure Our Schools (SOS) Grant Program: Almost $15 million is available to law enforcement agencies to purchase school safety equipment and technology. Deadline for applying is June 15, 2005. Tribal Resources Grant Program (TRGP): Up to $20 million is available to address the needs of tribal law enforcement by providing a variety of funding options. They include salary and benefits for new sworn law officer positions, law enforcement training, uniforms, basic-issue equipment, department-wide technology, and vehicles for new and existing officers. Deadline for applying is May 31, 2005. Visit https://www.cops.usdoj.gov/default.asp?Item=1474 for more information about these grants and the invited agencies. COPS grant applications may be downloaded and submitted through www.grants.gov. ###
05.17.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Cole voted today for The Homeland Security Appropriations bill that provides $30.85 billion for first responders and other security related programs. The Homeland Security Appropriations (H.R. 2360) overwhelmingly passed in the House today. "This bill goes a long way in protecting our nation and increasing enforcement efforts along our borders. It also recognizes that no community is immune from terrorism, by providing grants to all states and localities for preparedness," Congressman Tom Cole said. H.R. 2360 provides $3.6 billion for first responders, including grants to high threat areas, firefighters, and emergency management. It also provides $19.4 billion for border protection, immigration enforcement, and related activities, including $1.61 billion for border security and control. The Homeland Security Appropriations continues efforts to enhance security for all modes of transportation, including ports, rails, and aviation, with a focus on research and development of next generation technologies to inspect baggage, passengers and cargo. In total, the bill provides $6.4 billion for the Transportation Security Administration and Federal Air Marshals. This legislation must now be debated in the Senate. ###
05.13.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Cole made the following statement after the announcement this morning of the Secretary of Defense’s recommendations to the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission. "I am very pleased that the Secretary's recommendations recognized the importance of all the major military instillations in Oklahoma. With gains at Tinker Air Force Base, Fort Sill, Vance Air Force Base and Tulsa International Airport Guard Station, we can be very proud of our bases. The survival of Altus Air Force Base and McAlester Army Ammunition Depot is also good news for Oklahoma. Oklahoma bases have survived through the past several rounds of closures. This says a lot about our bases and it says a lot about the communities around them that support them.""Oklahoma is one of the very few states in the country that has never lost a major facility in a BRAC round, and perhaps the only state that has made a net gain in each of the five BRAC rounds. This year the Secretary recommended that over 33 major installations be closed, which is over 10 percent of the total 318 bases in the U.S. military. A total of 97 major facilities were closed in previous BRAC rounds.""In the last two years I have worked with our Oklahoma Senators to provide about $200 million in additional funds to bases in Oklahoma's Fourth District. This has enhanced their value to the military and was surely a component in today's good news." "I am also very proud of the congressional delegation and other community and state leaders of both parties that have worked together over several decades to achieve this result. Today, we see the fruits of our efforts over the past years. Upon the completion of the BRAC process this year, we can be confident that Oklahoma bases will be safe for a long time to come. At this point, no additional BRAC rounds have been authorized or even contemplated by Congress.""I am particularly pleased with the gain of the Air Defense Artillery Center and School and the Net Fires Center to Fort Sill. I have been working with the Pentagon over the past few years on this and I believe it is a real win for Fort Sill. This is not only an addition of personnel but a new mission that will enhance Fort Sill's value to the American military and secure its future role in our national defense for many years to come." "Despite the good news today, I do have a few concerns. Although there is a net positive gain to facilities in our state, we are losing some reserve centers across the state and the Defense Finance and Accounting Center in Lawton. I will be working with the Oklahoma delegation to understand why these recommendations were made and to educate the BRAC Commission on the value and importance of these centers." After the Commission reviews the list and makes deletions or additions it will be sent to the President for approval. The President must submit a list to Congress by November 7, 2005. ###
05.12.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Tom Cole voted today for an amendment offered by Representative Michael Castle that encourages equipment donations to local fire departments. This amendment was included in the Faster and Smarter Funding for First Responders Act (H.R. 1544) that passed in the House today. Congressman Cole supported the amendment during the debate in Rules Committee on which amendments would be heard on the floor. "This amendment will help better equip local, volunteer fire departments by encouraging charitable donations from the private sector. A local business or organization should be able to donate equipment without worrying about future liability in the case of an accident," Congressman Cole said. "Equipment donations are very important for fire departments in smaller communities who do not have the funds to purchase new and up-to-date equipment." For example, as reported earlier this month, Chesapeake Energy Cooperation donated sport utility vehicles and threequarter-ton trucks to fire departments in Oklahoma who were relying on trucks that were over 40 years old. If this amendment were signed into law Chesapeake would be able to continue this type of giving without the burden of liability if something out of their control happened to the vehicle after the donation. Under current law, the threat of civil liability has caused some organizations to destroy fire fighting equipment, rather than donating it to volunteer, rural and other financially-strapped fire departments. The Castle amendment encourages donations by raising the liability standard for donors of fire fighting equipment from negligence to gross negligence. The Faster and Smarter Funding for First Responders Act of 2005 provides priority assistance to first responders facing the greatest risk and streamlines terrorism preparedness grants. The plan also requires the establishment of specific, flexible, and measurable goals for first responders and encourages states and localities to pool resources for regional benefit, all while following the valued recommendations of the 9/11 Commission. ###
05.12.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. -A request by Congressman Tom Cole to split the non-line-of-site cannon (NLOS-C) from the development track of the Future Combat Systems (FCS) was included in the 2006 Defense Authorization bill reported out of an Armed Services subcommittee mark up today. This technical change will ensure full funding for NLOS-C and put it on a faster track than other man ground vehicles. "The Tactical Air and Land Subcommittee voted today to include several provisions that will protect the non-line-of-site cannon, including a $50 million increase in funding for NLOS-C over the President's request. The bill ensures that NLOS-C will provide the proper fire power required for the vehicle and will be a powerful and dominant weapon on the battlefield for the Army for many years," Congressman Cole said. "I am very pleased that the subcommittee is moving forward with the non-line-of-site cannon. This vehicle is important to the Army and could be great economic boost to Elgin, where it may be produced." Congressman Cole along with two other Rules Committee members met with Armed Services Chairman Duncan Hunter on Thursday, May 5. As point person on Rules Committee for all defense issues, Congressman Cole has been working with the Armed Services Committee, especially Chairman Hunter, in the drafting process of the Defense Authorization in order to help craft the best piece of legislation that will be able to pass through Rules Committee and on the House floor. In this meeting and in a formal letter, Congressman Cole requested that non-line-of-site cannon be split from the Future Combat Systems into a separate development path. It will also include provisions to maintain objective lethality and survivability requirements and it states that NLOS-C should not be compromised to meet weight requirements of the FCS vehicles. Congressman Cole has also requested that during full committee mark up that NLOS-C be funded at $50 million over the Presidents request of $108 million. The Armed Services Committee will be marking up the Defense Authorization bill the week of May 16th. ###
05.11.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Tom Cole voted today for legislation that helps curb the growing national problem of gang violence across the United States. The Gang Deterrence and Community Protection Act of 2005 (H.R. 1279) passed today in the House. "While the national crime rate continues to decline, gang-related violence has risen. And even though at one time, gangs were confined to inner-cities, they are now increasingly appearing in rural and suburban areas across the country," Congressman Tom Cole said. "This legislation puts forth a comprehensive plan that will address this problem by increasing gang-related prosecutions and helping to prevent gang-related crimes." According to the Department of Justice, there are currently over 25,000 active gangs in 3,000 jurisdictions around the United States. The bill authorizes increases in federal funding to support law enforcement efforts at all levels, and enhances existing gang and violent crime penalties. This legislation will toughen penalties for gang crimes that are committed in order to further the activities of criminal street gang: Life in prison or death for any crime resulting in death; Mandatory minimum of 30 years in prison for kidnapping, aggravated sexual abuse or maiming; Mandatory minimum of 20 years in prison for an assault resulting in serious bodily injury; Mandatory minimum of 10 years in prison for any other gang crime. The legislation contains a number of other measures aimed at reducing gang violence including: Extending the statute of limitations for violent crime from 5 to 15 years after the offense occurred or the continuing offense was completed; Increasing penalties for criminal use of firearms in crimes of violence and drug trafficking; Modification of the list of RICO (Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act) predicates to clarify applicability of offenses which occur on Indian country or in any other area of exclusive Federal jurisdiction; Authorization for the Attorney General to charge as an adult in federal court a juvenile who is 16 years or older and commits a crime of violence; Designation of and assistance for “High Intensity” interstate gang activity areas; $20 million for each of the fiscal years 2005 to 2009 to allow for the hiring of additional state and local prosecutors, and the purchasing of technological equipment to increase the accurate identification and prosecution of violent offenders. ###
05.11.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Tom Cole will join Senator Inhofe on a tour of both Tinker Air Force Base and Ft. Sill on Friday, May 13th. Their visit will coincide with the official announcement of military installations on the Pentagon’s Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission list, expected on the same day. "I have every confidence that Oklahoma bases are well positioned for the BRAC process, just as they have in previous rounds of base closings," Congressman Cole said. "Each Oklahoma base has unique advantages that are important to our military. Also the state and local communities have made every precaution in anticipation of this announcement." Below are the tentative times and locations for the base tours. 11:00am - Tinker Air Force Base & Air Logistics Center, Midwest City Parking Lot adjacent to Tinker AFB Douglas Gate Entrance3:30pm – Fort Sill, Lawton Lawton-Ft. Sill Regional Airport Terminal Lobby###
05.04.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Cole and Ethics Committee Chairman Doc Hastings (R-WA) announced that at his own request Cole will not participate in any matter concerning House Majority Leader Tom DeLay (R-TX) that may come before the House Ethics Committee. The announcement was made earlier today at the organizational meeting of the committee, officially known as the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. Congressman Lamar Smith (R-TX) also recused himself from matters concerning Mr. DeLay. In a separate press release, Chairman Hastings said he had "...the utmost respect for the honesty, integrity and impartiality ..." of Congressman Cole. Hastings added he values Cole's "leadership, wisdom and genuine commitment to upholding the highest ethical standards in the House of Representatives." In July 2004, seven months before he was appointed to the Ethics Committee, Congressman Cole contributed $5,000 from his campaign fund to Congressman DeLay's legal defense fund. "I am confident in my ability to fairly and impartially review any matter--including those related to the Majority Leader--the Ethics Committee may take up. That said, I believe it is important for the committee and for the House that its actions be viewed as nonpartisan and objective by the members of this institution and by the public," Cole said. "I have felt since my appointment to the committee in February that I should recuse myself from decisions on matters involving Majority Leader Delay. With the organization of the committee today and an impending review of the allegations made against the Majority Leader, I felt now was the appropriate time to make that decision public." "I believe Congress needs to move forward on ethics matters in a nonpartisan manner. Those that sought to politicize the ethics process should start putting the institution ahead of their partisan agenda. They should recognize the ethics process is to judge and, if necessary, discipline individual Members. It is not a means to score partisan political points." Cole will remain a member of the Ethics Committee and will participate in all deliberations on matters unrelated to Mr. DeLay. ###
05.04.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Cole voted today for the Vocational and Technical Education for the Future Act (H.R. 366) which will help states and local communities strengthen vocational and technical educational opportunities for students. This legislation passed overwhelmingly in the House today. "Vocational and technical education is a critical component of our efforts to improve educational opportunities for our young people," Congressman Cole said. "This legislation will help strengthen the system and ensure that state and local communities make the most of federal resources." H.R. 366 seeks to help states better utilize federal funds for secondary and postsecondary vocational education programs, increase accountability and emphasize student achievement and strengthen opportunities for coordination between secondary and postsecondary vocational and technical education. "This legislation improves the Carl Perkins vocational education program, which is already one of the largest federal investments in our nation’s high schools," Congressman Cole said. The Vocational and Technical Education for the Future Act renews and reauthorizes the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Technical Education Act, often known as the Perkins program. The Perkins program helps states and local communities prepare youth and adults for the future by building their academic and technical skills. "Oklahoma's Career-Tech system is a shining example of a successful vocational and technical educational system. It has been a model for many other postsecondary educational systems across the country," Congressman Cole said. "This legislation will help strengthen their already successful program." The Vocational and Technical Education for the Future Act legislation must now be considered in the Senate. ###
05.03.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole sent his congratulations to Tinker Air Force Base Pollution Prevention Team for receiving the Secretary of Defense 2004 Environmental Award. Only ten military installations and individuals will receive this award at the ceremony planned for May 4, 2005 at the Pentagon. "I am very proud of Tinker Air Force base for practicing environmentally friendly policies and taking the necessary precautions to prevent pollution," Congressman Cole said. "Tinker Air Force base has already confirmed its vital role in our nation's military, now they are proving themselves on the environmental front. Oklahomans should be proud of our base for its continued display of excellence." A panel of expert judges from the government, non-profit and private sectors chose the winners in the following categories: cultural resources management, environmental quality, environmental restoration, natural resources conservation, and pollution prevention. This award is given by the secretary of defense each year to honor installations, teams and individuals for outstanding environmental management by military and civilian personnel, at both domestic and overseas bases. Detailed information on the secretary's environmental awards can be found at https://www.denix.osd.mil/denix/Public/Library/Awards/awards.html. ###
04.29.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Cole voted this week for a resolution expressing the sense of the House that American small businesses are entitled to a Small Business Bill of Rights. H. Res. 22 passed overwhelmingly in the House. "This legislation shows that the House of Representatives is committed to small businesses and will continue to work to make sure they have the resources they need to be successful," Congressman Tom Cole said. According to the Small Business Administration there are about 295,300 small businesses in Oklahoma. In this legislation the Small Business Bill of Rights includes: The right to join together to purchase affordable health insurance for small business employees, who make up a large portion of the millions of Americans without health care coverage. The right to simplified tax laws that allow family-owned small businesses to survive over several generations and offer them incentives to grow. The right to be free from frivolous lawsuits which harm law-abiding small businesses and prevent them from creating new jobs. The right to be free of unnecessary, restrictive regulations and paperwork which waste the time and energy of small businesses while hurting production and preventing job creation. The right to relief from high energy costs, which pose a real threat to the survival of small businesses, to be accomplished by reducing the Nation's reliance on imported sources of energy and encouraging environmentally-sound domestic production and conservation of energy. The right to equal treatment, as compared to large businesses, when seeking access to start-up and expansion capital and credit. The right to open access to the Government procurement marketplace through the breaking up of large contracts to give small business owners a fair opportunity to compete for Federal contracts.###
04.27.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole voted today for a bipartisan compromise that should allow the House ethics committee to organize and begin its work. By an overwhelming vote, the House agreed to set aside changes in the ethics process agreed to earlier this year. With the passage of H. Res. 240, the House ethics committee will be governed by rules in effect since 1997. "Although I still believe in the changes made to the rules of the House at the outset of the 109th Congress, I think it is more important for the institution to have a functioning Ethics Committee that can successfully organize and begin to discharge its duties,"Congressman Tom Cole said. The three changes repealed in today's vote—guaranteeing Members the right to be represented in front of the committee by counsel of their choice, ensuring Members’ right to due process, and a rules change that forced the committee to act or dismiss a complaint within a specified time frame—would have increased the fairness of the ethics process for members of both parties. "I commend Speaker Hastert for acting in good faith to break the deadlock over the ethics rules in the House. He has acted with great integrity throughout this entire process and I appreciate his leadership in this difficult matter," Congressman Cole said. "Now that the House has decided to operate under the ethics rules of the 108th Congress, we need to move forward in a nonpartisan manner. Those that sought to politicize the ethics process should start putting the institution ahead of their partisan agenda" Congressman Tom Cole said. Congressman Tom Cole is a member of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct, better known as the Ethics Committee.###
04.21.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Cole voted today for a bipartisan energy policy that will help decrease American's dependence on unstable foreign oil supplies and stimulate the national economy. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 passed today on the House floor by a vote of 249 to 183 and is now headed to the Senate. Congressman Cole was able to use his position on the powerful Rules Committee to protect refineries in Ardmore, Oklahoma and elsewhere from frivolous lawsuits filed by trial lawyers. Cole blocked amendments seeking to strip a bipartisan agreement on the legal liability of the manufacturers and users of MTBE, a fuel additive the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency mandated the use of during the 1990s. "The House-passed energy bill balances the need for more domestic energy production with commonsense goals for conservation," Congressman Tom Cole said. "It will help create hundreds of thousands of jobs in all sectors of the economy, including manufacturing, construction, agriculture, and technology while at the same time preventing the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs due to costs associated with high energy prices." This comprehensive energy policy will allow us to produce more of our energy domestically, instead of relying on unstable foreign countries. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 increases domestic energy supplies by: Increasing domestic oil and gas exploration and development on non-park federal lands. Requiring 5 billion gallons of renewable fuel to be included in all gasoline sold in the United States by 2015, an increase that will save 1.3 billion barrels of oil by 2016. Streamlining the regulatory and approval process for the restart of idle refineries of the construction of new refineries. "The Energy Policy Act of 2005 presents a comprehensive plan to help balance the growing discrepancy between consumption and production. It focuses on exploring new domestic sources of oil and natural gas, while also offering incentives to utilize alternate sources of energy," Congressman Cole said. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 provides for an unprecedented increase in renewable sources of energy, such as wind, solar, geothermal, biomass, and hydroelectric power. The energy policy act will also help improve our nation's electricity transmission capacity and reliability; promote a cleaner environment; and encourages nuclear and hydropower production. "Americans have suffered enough--paying high prices for gasoline at the pump and also for natural gas to heat their homes. We need a national energy policy that addresses our immediate energy needs and our energy requirements in the future," Congressman Cole said. "We need to send an energy bill to the President this year." Last year the House passed energy legislation on several occasions, but the Senate failed to follow suit. This year we hope to finish the job and send energy legislation to the President. ###
04.13.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole today voted today to once and for all end the death tax that punishes many family owned businesses and farmers in Oklahoma and across the nation. The Death Tax Repeal Permanency Act of 2005 (H.R. 8), which repeals estate and generation-skipping taxes and makes certain reductions of the gift tax permanent, passed in the House today and will now go to the Senate. “The tax issue that I hear about most consistently from my constituents is the unfair death tax. I agree with them-- death should not be a taxable event,” Congressman Tom Cole said. "Not only does it destroy many family operated businesses, it undermines economic growth, reduces real wages, and raises little federal income." H.R. 8, the Death Tax Repeal Permanency Act of 2005 will remove the 2010 expiration or “sunset” provision of the death tax repeal from the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001. “The last thing the American people and this economy need is a tax hike. With tax day approaching, it is fitting that we pass this tax relief now so families can began to plan for the future with certainty,” Congressman Cole said. The Heritage Foundation estimates that the Death Tax costs the American economy up to 250,000 jobs annually. According to the Joint Economic Committee, the death tax is the leading cause of dissolution for thousands of family-run businesses, diverting resources available for investment and employment. "The death tax is one of the most anti-growth provisions in the tax code. Repealing it will increase the productivity of our economy and result in increased jobs for Americans," Congressman Cole said. ###
04.06.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Cole spoke on the House floor today in support of legislation to ease restrictions on federal housing money available to American Indian tribal governments. H.R. 797, which passed in the House today, will assist in stretching existing resources and creating flexibility for housing funds available to Native Americans. In a statement on the House floor today, Congressman Cole said, "This bill allows tribes to maximize funding resources provided through the Native American Housing and Self-Determination Act of 1996. It also reinforces tribal sovereignty in allowing tribes to focus certain federal housing funding solely on tribal members. Finally, it will reinstate tribal access to federal funding for youth programs." Specifically this legislation would remove limitations on new federal money for tribes who have not spent all of their housing funds in a designated year. "This legislation will give Native Americans the ability to plan for the future and make long-term housing decisions," Congressman Cole said. Another aspect of H.R. 797 would allow tribal governments to participate in The Housing and Urban Development's YouthBuild U.S.A. In YouthBuild programs, unemployed and undereducated young people are hired to build affordable housing for homeless and low-income people, while working toward their GED or high school diploma. ###
04.04.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole announced today that all Oklahoma High School students are invited to attend Oklahoma Congressional Academy Day to learn about each military academy and the application process. The Oklahoma Congressional Academy Day will be held at Rose State College in the Tom Steed Center Auditorium on April 9th from 2-4 p.m. "I would like to encourage anyone who would be interested in attending one of the esteemed military academies to participate in this event," Congressman Cole said. "Not only will you learn more about what each academy has to offer, you will also be able to have one on one discussions with representatives from the academies." There will be a video presentation and a short speech from each of the representatives from the academies and a question and answer session. Also attending the event will be representatives from each Congressional office to help explain and answer questions about the application process.Oklahoma Congressional Academy DayApril 9, 2005 2 p.m.- 4 p.m. Rose State College Tom Steed Center Auditorium6420 SE 15th StreetMidwest City, OK 73110 For more information about the event please contact Amber Pollard at 580-436-5375.###
03.17.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole voted for legislation that would authorize the removal of cases in state court to the U.S. federal court to defend the rights of incapacitated persons under the U.S. Constitution or any U.S. law. The Protection of Incapacitated Persons Act of 2005 (H.R. 1332) passed in the House late yesterday evening by voice vote. "This legislation is important to protect those that don't have the voice to protect themselves. It is senseless for the federal court to consider her case without also taking into consideration the findings of the state court. I am pleased that the House was able to move in an expedient manner and I hope we will be able to send this to the President in time to save Terri Schiavo's life," Congressman Cole said. This legislation was introduced to protect Terri Schiavo from starving to death by allowing her to have a federal court consider her case anew, unrestricted by the findings of state court. The Florida courts are set to determine that Ms. Schiavo will have her feeding tube removed tomorrow. Congressman Cole was a co-sponsor of the original legislation and fully supports the legislation introduced by James Sensenbrenner, Jr. (WI-05) and Rep. Dave Weldon (FL-15.) that was moved through the House yesterday. ###
03.17.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Cole voted today for the Fiscal Year 2006 Budget Resolution (H.Con.Res. 95) that adequately funds our Nation's priorities while reigning in spending and reducing the federal deficit. H.Con.Res. 95 passed in the House today and will now be considered in a House-Senate conference committee. "This budget ensures that America’s economy continues to grow and to create jobs, ensures a 4.8% increase in Defense spending and takes the necessary steps to slow the growth of our current-unsustainable rate of federal spending," Congressman Cole said. Congressman Cole first voted for Republican Study Committee budget, an amendment made on the floor by Jeb Hensarling (TX-05). This budget includes a larger reduction in non-security (non-defense, non-homeland) discretionary spending, includes a greater opportunity for savings in mandatory spending, reconciles the entire amount of tax relief in the budget and includes items that will make it possible to enforce the budget after it is passed. "I believe Congress must be held responsible for the tax dollars they are spending. The alternative budget I voted for first, would help make sure Congress stays within the agreed budget," Congressman Cole said. "Fiscal responsibility is absolutely necessary as the deficit continues to rise, placing a great burden on future generations and weakening the dollar against currency around the world." The budget that passed on the floor cuts the deficit in half by 2009 – in both monetary terms and as a percentage of GDP. ###
03.15.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Cole made an amendment on the House floor today that would protect important Military Death Gratuity Benefits and Service Group Life Insurance benefits. He offered the amendment to the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act (H.R. 1268) in order to protect language in the bill that would increase military benefits from being removed. "I am glad that we were able to act in the best interests of our brave men and women in uniform who certainly deserve this increase in benefits. Without this amendment the language that provided additional benefits to our men and women in combat could have been easily stricken from the legislation," Congressman Cole said. The Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act (H.R. 1268) is expected to pass tomorrow in the House. Congressman Cole's amendment would protect sections 1113 and 1114 of the legislation, which would raise maximum coverage under the Service members' Group Life Insurance (SGLI) program from $250,000, to $400,000. It would also increase the military's death gratuity, which is paid to families of service members killed in the War on Terror, from $12,400 death gratuity to $100,000."These are important provisions for military families," said Rep. Duncan Hunter (R-CA), Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. "We need to enact them as soon as possible and help the families of those who have made the ultimate sacrifice in the War on Terror. Thanks to Congressman Cole and his position on the Rules Committee, these benefits will be delivered sooner rather than later." ###
03.10.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole was able to secure $1 million for walkways in Midwest City in the Transportation Reauthorization bill that passed in the House today. The Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (H.R. 3) now awaits action by the Senate. "These funds will be used to make walkways along major streets in Midwest City to encourage alternate methods of transportation and exercise. I will continue to work to make sure these funds are included in the final version of the legislation. I hope that this bill will move quickly through the rest of the legislative process, so work can begin as soon as possible," Congressman Cole said. Congressman Cole was able to include $16 million for priority projects in Oklahoma's Fourth Congressional District in The Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (H.R. 3). ###
03.10.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole voted today for the House Transportation Reauthorization bill, which includes $16 million dollars for projects in Oklahoma's Fourth Congressional District. This legislation passed in the House and now awaits action by the Senate. "This legislation includes vital funds for important projects all across the state. In the Fourth Congressional District, these funds will help make life saving improvements to roads that have proven to be dangerous and inadequate to handle volumes of traffic," Congressman Cole said. "My office has worked with the Oklahoma Departm0ent of Transportation to identify these high priority projects. I hope that this bill will move quickly through the rest of the legislative process, so work can begin as soon as possible." The Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (H.R. 3) provides $284 billion in federal highway for transit and road safety projects across the country through 2009.This legislation seeks to correct problems of congestion, driver safety, and inefficient highway projects, while creating millions of new U.S. jobs in the transportation sector and related industries. Congressman Cole was able to include the following funds for priority projects approved by the Oklahoma Department of Transportation.Complete Reconstruction of the I-35/SH 9 West Interchange, $4 million Construction of Duncan Bypass Grade Separation, $3 million Improvements at I-35 Interchange at Milepost 1 in Love County, $2 million Enhancements for Highway 19 from Ada to Stratford, $3 million Construction of Midwest City Pedestrian Walkway, $1 million Construction of Norman Grade Separation, $2 million Reconstruction of the I-44/Fort Sill Key Gate Interchange, $1 million ###
03.10.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole was able to secure $2 million for improvements at I-35 Interchange at milepost one in Love County in the Transportation Reauthorization bill that passed in the House today. The Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (H.R. 3) now awaits action by the Senate. "These funds will help alleviate safety and traffic impediments for the highly traveled area near the Texas border in Love County. I will continue to work to make sure these funds are included in the final version of the legislation. I hope that this bill will move quickly through the rest of the legislative process, so work can begin as soon as possible," Congressman Cole said. This project is part of a two-year effort, which has already begun, to resurface a portion of I-35 from the Oklahoma state line and north eight miles. Congressman Cole has secured $2 million in previous transportation spending bills for this project. Congressman Cole was able to include $16 million for priority projects in Oklahoma's Fourth Congressional District in The Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (H.R. 3). ###
03.10.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole was able to secure $1 million for reconstruction of the I-44/Fort Sill Key Gate interchange in the Transportation Reauthorization bill that passed in the House today. The Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (H.R. 3) now awaits action by the Senate. "Improvements at this interchange are necessary for the efficient transportation of military goods, which is critical to national security and local economic vitality. I will continue to work to make sure these funds are included in the final version of the legislation. I hope that this bill will move quickly through the rest of the legislative process, so work can begin as soon as possible," Congressman Cole said. Congressman Cole was able to include $16 million for priority projects in Oklahoma's Fourth Congressional District in The Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (H.R. 3). ###
03.10.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole was able to secure $3 million for the construction of a bypass grade separation in Duncan in the Transportation Reauthorization bill that passed in the House today. The Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (H.R. 3) now awaits action by the Senate. "These funds will help alleviate safety and traffic impediments for the Duncan community and the many travelers between Oklahoma and Texas. I will continue to work to make sure these funds are included in the final version of the legislation. I hope that this bill will move quickly through the rest of the legislative process, so work can begin as soon as possible," Congressman Cole said. Congressman Cole was able to include $16 million for priority projects in Oklahoma's Fourth Congressional District in The Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (H.R. 3).###
03.10.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole was able to secure $3 million for enhancements to Highway 19 from Ada to Stratford in the Transportation Reauthorization bill that passed in the House today. The Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (H.R. 3) now awaits action by the Senate. "These funds will help alleviate safety and traffic impediments for travelers between Stratford and Ada. I will continue to work to make sure these funds are included in the final version of the legislation. I hope that this bill will move quickly through the rest of the legislative process, so work can begin as soon as possible," Congressman Cole said. Congressman Cole was able to include $16 million for priority projects in Oklahoma's Fourth Congressional District in The Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (H.R. 3). ###
03.10.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Cole, who returned Monday from his fourth trip to Iraq, said he was much more optimistic about the situation in Iraq and the future of the Iraqi people then he was in previous trips to the country. Cole had the opportunity to lead a group of congressman to Iraq, Jordan and Germany over the past weekend to make post election observations and meet with foreign leaders. They returned yesterday with enthusiasm on the progress of the American troops and the strong will of the Iraqi people. "The morale over there is at the highest I have seen it, and I think that has to do with three key events: the victory in Fallujah, the successful elections and the continued high rate of Iraqis volunteering to serve as security forces. Things are looking up in Iraq and I think now time is on our side," Congressman Tom Cole said. While in Iraq, the Congressional Delegation met with Ambassador Negroponte who will soon assume the role as the Director of National Intelligence. They also met with interim President Al-Yawer and the Deputy Prime Minister of Iraq, Barham Salih. The group stopped in Baghdad, Fallujah and Tikrit. They also visited an Iraqi Police Training Center, wounded troops in Germany and had dinner with Oklahoma troops while in Iraq. "Every time I visit Iraq, I am even more amazed at strength and character of the American troops. They are very passionate about the work they are doing," Congressman Tom Cole said. "One thing they request is that we take care of their families. Also they love to hear from people back home. If you have a chance to write to a soldier serving in Iraq, I know they would greatly appreciate it." ###
03.10.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole announced today that the Ways and Means Committee is asking House Leadership to schedule legislation on the floor next week that will clarify ambiguity in the tax code to ensure taxes will not be levied on FEMA (Federal Emergency Management Agency) grants used to build storm shelters. Working with the rest of the Oklahoma delegation and many other House Members, Cole is pushing for legislation to be brought up under expedited procedures. "With April 15th just around the corner, I am pleased that there is a good possibility we will be voting on this legislation next week. Many Oklahomans are worried they might have to pay unexpected taxes next month on the grants they received to build storm shelters," Congressman Tom Cole said. "I do not believe these grants should be taxed, and I am working hard, along with the rest of the Oklahoma Delegation to make sure legislation is signed by the President before people turn in their taxes this year." Congressman Mark Foley introduced legislation Monday, March 7, that contains language that would reverse an IRS ruling that determined all FEMA grants to build storm shelters would be taxable as income. Congressman Tom Cole was an original co-sponsor of this legislation. Congressman Cole has been working with Congressman Foley, the Ways and Means Committee and members of the Oklahoma Delegation to ensure the bill that is enacted legislation covers all awardees dating back to 1999. ###
03.10.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole was able to secure $6 million for the Norman area in the Transportation Reauthorization bill that passed in the House today. The Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (H.R. 3) now awaits action by the Senate. "These funds will help alleviate safety and traffic impediments for the Norman community. I will continue to work to make sure they are included in the final version of the legislation. I hope that this bill will move quickly through the rest of the legislative process, so work can begin as soon as possible," Congressman Cole said. This legislation will provide $2 million for intersection improvements and a grade separation on Robinson Street from US-77 to Stubbeman Avenue. Congressman Cole was able to secure $1 million last year in the transportation spending bill for this project. The Transportation Reauthorization bill also provides $4 million for the complete reconstruction of the I-35/SH 9 West Interchange. Congressman Cole was able to include $16 million for priority projects in Oklahoma's Fourth Congressional District in The Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (H.R. 3). ###
03.03.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole made the following statement today on the House floor in support of the rule for The Continuity in Representation Act of 2005 (H.R. 841). As a member of the Rules Committee, Congressman Cole has a voice in determining the rule, which sets the terms of debate on the Floor. A rule must be passed before the actual piece of legislation is debatable."Mr. Speaker, H.R. 841 is an important step forward in addressing what are critical shortcomings in America's plan for continuity of this House in the event of an unexpected disaster or attack. While I was not a Member of Congress on September 11, 2001, I was in an office directly across LaFayette Park from the White House. Like all Americans I remember that day in detail. One of the most significant memories I have is the bipartisan response to the tragedy where members stood on the steps of the Capitol and let it be known to the world that our government would continue to operate. Mr. Speaker, the response of Congress to 9/11 should never be forgotten. It was a sign to the world that America was strong, that it would persevere, and that we would go forward as a Nation. The underlying legislation today does the exact same thing. It takes an important step to ensure the preservation of our Republic and the continuity of our Government under the most trying of circumstances.Mr. Speaker, very simply, this legislation ensures a continuity of operations for the House of Representatives. In the event more than 100 members of Congress are killed, the Speaker may announce the "exceptional circumstances" exist and thereby trigger expedited special elections that must occur within 7 full weeks, thus ensuring the continuity of the House of Representatives. Mr. Speaker, this legislation should not be very divisive based on the fact that a similar measure passed the House by a substantial bipartisan margin of 306-97 in the last session of Congress. This legislation ensures the continuity of the people's House. It ensures that the House will still be an elected body chosen by the American public, just as the Founders intended.With that said, let's talk about what this bill is not. It is not an election law bill. It is a continuity bill. Mr. Speaker, you will hear many members describe various provisions today in the context of federal election law. These measures may have genuine merit. However they are not relevant to this legislation. Personally I firmly believe that most members would agree with me when I suggest that election law should remain mostly a local issue. This is where it resides historically, and this is where it should continue to reside.Mr. Speaker, we have a clear decision before us today. We can either be responsible in preparing for what we all hope never occurs, or we can engage in pointless bickering over election laws that historically are controlled by the localities. Just a few years ago, almost all members would have viewed a tragedy like September 11th as an unthinkable event. And, that's precisely the point. We cannot predict tomorrow. What we do know however, is that we are engaged in a real, genuine, and taxing Global War on Terror. This is a generational war, and not one that will disappear overnight.Mr. Speaker, simply put, this legislation is about the security and continuity of America's governing institution. It is an issue of critical importance in establishing an orderly response should the unthinkable occur once again. The legislative history of this measure is clear. This bill originated in direct response to the events of September 11th. It is a continuity in government bill, not an election reform measure.To confuse the former with the latter by encumbering this bill with extraneous issues would to lose sight of the fundamental purpose of the legislation. Our job here is to ensure the continuity of the House of Representatives, not reform a state based electoral process with federal legislation.During my time as Secretary of State in Oklahoma, the bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building occurred. At the time, such an event was considered the unthinkable in the United States. That incident and the larger tragedy of 9/11 are a sober warning that we should prepare for the unexpected before it occurs. H.R. 841 is an important part of that preparation. And it is also a tangible sign to terrorists that they will never intimidate this country, change the nature of this House as the elected representatives of the American people, nor keep our government from facing any challenges it may face in the future. Mr. Speaker, let us wait no longer. Let us move forward. And, to that end, I would urge all members to support this rule and the underlying bill." The Continuity in Representation Act of 2005 passed in the House today, 329-68. ###
03.03.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole announced today that an agreement has been made on how to move forward on legislation that would clarify ambiguity in the tax code to ensure taxes will not be levied on FEMA (Federal Emergency Management Agency) grants used to build storm shelters. Congressman Cole will be co-sponsoring a new piece of legislation to be introduced by Representative Mark Foley (FL-16) that is expected to pass the House and Senate before tax day. "This is great news for those worried about having to pay taxes on the storm shelter grants next month," Congressman Tom Cole said. "The Oklahoma delegation along with many other members of Congress have helped put this legislation on the fast track and are working to make sure a comprehensive bill-one that includes all awardees dating back to 1999-will be sent to the President as soon as possible." Although the exact language has not be drafted, the Ways and Means Committee has directed Representative Marc Foley to draft a new piece of legislation that is expected to be the main vehicle to quickly move this issue through both Houses of Congress and to the President for his signature. In December, Congressman Cole was made aware of an IRS ruling that determined all FEMA (Federal Emergency Management Agency) grants to build storm shelters would be taxable as income. This ruling would require the several thousand Oklahomans who received this grant to pay the tax. The grants averaged $2,000 per reward. ###
03.02.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Cole was tapped by Rules Committee Chairman David Dreier (CA-26) to take charge of defense legislation and issues that come before the Rules Committee. At the direction of the House Leadership, individual members of the Rules Committee will now be directly engaged with committees and their chairman as legislation is being initially crafted. "I am honored to accept this responsibility that will allow me to have a greater role in setting defense budget priorities and in decision making about the future of our military," Congressman Tom Cole. "Congressman Cole is already proving to be an outstanding member of the Rules Committee and I'm very pleased he will be our point man on defense issues. His experience on the Armed Services Committee will prove invaluable to us as we consider important issues like the upcoming Iraq supplemental spending bill, and the Defense Authorization bill. I look forward to working with him on these and many other issues in the coming Congress," Chairman Dreier said. Congressman Cole's new responsibilities include working as a liaison between the Rules Committee and the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee and House Armed Services Committee. He will be managing the legislation produced by these panels, including the annual defense authorization and defense appropriations bills. “Congressman Cole has become a real leader in guiding national security issues,” said House Armed Services Committee Chairman Duncan Hunter (CA-52). “His powerful new position on the Rules Committee is great news for our men and women in uniform. We could not have a better ally and I look forward to continuing to work with him.” "As a member of the Rules Committee it is important to make sure that legislation that reaches the floor is supported by a majority of the House. My job as a liaison will be to work with the committees and groups of members from the beginning of the legislative process until the bill reaches the floor. Then when it does reach the floor, I will leading the debate on the rule and playing a large role in deciding which amendments could be offered," Congressman Cole said. "This position will allow me to have greater influence in creating national defense policy and in decisions that affect important military instillations in Oklahoma," Congressman Cole said. ###
03.01.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Tom Cole today congratulated Michael J. Evans on his appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point, New York. Cole nominated Evans to the entering class of 2005. "Michael Evans is one of Oklahoma's finest. Not only has he succeeded academically at Carl Albert High School but he has also excelled in sports, and other leadership activities," Congressman Tom Cole said. "I'm very happy for him that he can now continue to prove his excellence at the United States Military Academy, and in the process make his family and his state very proud." Evans has received many honors during his high school career including National Honor Society, All American Scholar Achievement and the USAA National Leadership Merit Award. Michael is the son of Matt and Suzan Evans. Evans was also offered a football scholarship from West Point. His football achievements at Carl Albert High School include Honorable Mention Big All City Tight End in 2003. ###
03.01.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Tom Cole today congratulated Jordan Tribble on his appointment to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs. Cole nominated Tribble to the Air Force entering class of 2005. "I was very proud to nominate Jordan Tribble to the U.S. Air Force Academy. It is a great honor to attend an academy. Tribble has shown great character and leadership through his academic achievements and athletic accomplishments. His family and our home state is proud of you and will continue to stand behind him as he enters the United States Air Force," Congressman Tom Cole said. Jordan Tribble is the son of Jimmie and Karen Tribble. Jordan Tribble attends Midwest City High School and will graduate in May. His high school honors include: National Honor Society, Junior Rotarian and Varsity Football Captain. ###
03.01.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Tom Cole today congratulated Benjamin Bigbie on his appointment to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Cole nominated Bigbie to the Air Force Academy entering class of 2005. "Receiving an academy appointment is a great honor. Benjamin Bigbie, through academics, sports and volunteer work, has shown dedication and character. His commendable decision to attend the Air Force academy will make his family and his state very proud," Congressman Tom Cole said. Benjamin Bigbie has been identified by the Air Force as pilot qualified. He is the son of G. Bane Bigbie and Melanie A. Bigbie. ###
03.01.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Tom Cole today congratulated Nicholas Vandal on his appointment to the United States Air Force Academy, the United States Military Academy and the United States Naval Academy. Cole nominated Vandal to the entering class of 2005. "Nicholas is one of Oklahoma's brightest. Students, like Nicholas, with such a strong dedication to our country deserve our respect and support. I congratulate Nicholas for his appointments and wish him the best as he makes his decision on which academy to attend," Congressman Tom Cole said. Nicholas Vandal is the son of Thomas and Doreen Vandal. Vandal's high school accomplishments include many academic and sports honors. He will graduate from Eisenhower High School this spring. ###
02.17.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole today voted for the Class Action Fairness Act of 2005, a bipartisan plan that makes common sense reforms to prevent the misuse of class action lawsuits. Congressman Cole applauded this legislation as a first step in reducing the frivolous lawsuits that are clogging our court system. "This legislation makes very specific reforms that will enforce the spirit of the current law and ensure that the process is used for legitimate purposes. The plan also contains several provisions specifically designed to ensure that class members, not their attorneys, are the primary beneficiaries of the class actions process," Congressman Cole said. The Class Action Fairness Act of 2005 clarifies existing law to ensure that class action lawsuits that are truly interstate in nature are left to the federal courts. This will prevent attorneys from using “magnet” courts who routinely approve settlements in which the lawyers receive large fee awards and the class members receive virtually nothing. The Class Action Fairness Act also creates a “Consumer Class Action Bill of Rights” that protects consumers from egregious abuses such as coupon rewards or cases where class members suffer a net loss. "I believe this issue is very important to our economic vitality and for all consumers who ultimately pay the price for abusive lawsuits," Congressman Cole said. "I was honored to take part in such an important debate by speaking on the floor and presiding over the debate at the request of the Speaker. I am glad that we have taken this first step and I certainly hope it is not the last advancement we make on lawsuit abuse this session of Congress." This legislation has already passed in the Senate and will now go to the President for his approval. ###
02.10.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole voted today for The Real ID Act that targets terrorist travel within the United States. This legislation, which passed the in the House 261-161, will implement much needed driver's license reforms, close asylum loopholes and strengthen deportation laws. "The Real ID Act addresses many recommendations from the 9/11 Commission report. For every provision in this legislation there is a reason and an example of a terrorist who abused and took advantage of loopholes in our system," Congressman Cole said. One of the important components of this legislation is to make certain requirements on driver's licenses so applicants would have to provide proof they are living in the country legally before receiving an ID. Currently eleven states do not require this documentation. The Real ID Act would also require identity documents to expire at the same time as the expiration of lawful entry status. Another important component of this legislation is strengthening deportation laws by making laws consistent. Under current immigration laws, prohibitions on terrorist-related activities only apply to aliens who are trying to enter the U.S., not to those who are already inside our borders. Therefore, if an alien seeking a visa has been found to participate in a terrorist related activity, he/she is prohibited from entering the U.S. But if an alien is found to have participated in the same terrorist activity while already in the U.S., he/she may not be deportable. "These are common sense reforms that will help us improve the security of our country. The events of September 11th taught us that we must impose stricter standards that will prevent terrorists from freely traveling throughout our country," Congressman Tom Cole said. ###
02.08.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole announced today that the President's budget includes language that would reverse a recent IRS decision that would require recipients of storm shelter grants to pay taxes on the funds they received. "I am very pleased that this language is included in the President's budget. The Oklahoma delegation has been working hard to change this ruling through the legislative process and this shows our efforts are beginning to bear fruit," Congressman Cole said. "I commend the President for taking this initiative to ensure taxes will not have to be paid on grants for storm shelters." In December, Congressman Cole became aware of an IRS ruling that determined all FEMA (Federal Emergency Management Agency) grants to build storm shelters would be taxable as income. This ruling would require the several thousand Oklahomans who received this grant to pay the tax. The grants averaged $2,000 per reward. "There are still several steps that need to be taken to pass this legislation, but having the President highlight this issue as a priority will surely speed along the process," Congressman Cole said. The language for this proposal can be found in the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Blue Book for FY 2006 budget on page 54. ###
02.02.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole introduced legislation yesterday evening that will provide a tax credit for producing natural gas on-shore from a depth of more than 15,000 feet. The Natural Gas Production Act will help increase domestic natural gas supplies making natural gas more affordable to American families, farms and businesses. "The natural gas resource potential below 15,000 feet is about 135 trillion cubic feet (Tcf) and most of it is onshore. This is a significant amount of untapped resources that could help lower natural gas prices for consumers and decrease our dependence on unstable foreign energy supplies," Congressman Cole said. Wells below 15,000 ft are very expensive and time consuming to drill – more than $6.1 million on average, increasing with depth to more than $16 million for wells deeper than 20,000 feet. Shallower wells cost between $86,000 and $1.9 million. "Natural Gas production at levels below 15,000 feet involves significant additional costs and high risks. But with a tax incentive, it would become more economically feasible and advantageous to natural gas explorers and producers," Congressman Tom Cole said. The Natural Gas Production Act would extend Section 29 of the U.S. Tax Code to provide a tax credit for natural gas produced onshore from a formation of more than 15,000 feet. The current Section 29 credit includes production from other unconventional methods such as: tight sands, oil-produced from shale and tar sands and gas from geo-pressured brine. "There is still a tremendous amount of natural gas in Oklahoma but the target reservoirs are very deep, the cost very high and the risk very great," Tom Price, Sr. Vice-President, Investor and Government Relations, Chesapeake Energy Company, said. In the last Congress, the House-passed Conference Report on H.R. 6, The Energy Policy Act, contained a provision providing royalty relief for natural gas produced from formations deeper than 15,000 in the shallow waters of the Central and Western Gulf of Mexico. This legislation will provide incentives for deep production onshore where the resource potential is more than 400% greater. Natural gas is utilized residentially, industrially and commercially. Over one-half of U.S. homes use natural gas as their main heating fuel. "This legislation will help Oklahoma producers provide natural gas for more Oklahoma families and businesses at an affordable price," Congressman Cole said. "It will also be a great for Oklahoman's economy, providing jobs and pumping money into our local economy." "With a tax advantage, deep drilling would be the best of all worlds. Not only would the production be significant, it would have a tremendous positive impact on rural Oklahoma, especially in the Western part where there is the most need for jobs and economic stimulus. Also because the drilling would not be on public lands and is expected to take place in existing natural gas fields it will be environmentally benign." Economists estimate that each dollar invested by energy producers creates economic growth and returns two to three-fold to the local and state economy. Each deep well production site will employ about 45 people directly. In addition to those direct jobs, some economists estimate that 60 to 75 indirect jobs will be created as well. Congressman Cole introduced this legislation in the last session of Congress. ###
02.02.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole made the following statement after the State of the Union address, February 2, 2005: "On the heels of his inaugural address, President Bush used the State of the Union address as a vehicle for driving home his domestic and foreign policy agenda. One thing we have learned about this president is that he does what he says he will do. The next year and the rest of his term will be no different. This president has made it clear he will not coast through the next four years, but will press full speed ahead. "Tonight the president outlined some brave, yet necessary agenda items and called Congress to the task. I look forward to working with the president to put these ideas into legislation that will make America a safer and better place to live. "President Bush devoted a good part of his speech to what I believe will be his top priority this year--Social Security. The president made his case why Congress needs to make improvements to the system today, instead of passing the problem to future generations. If we continue with the status quo our children and grandchildren will pay much more into Social Security than what they will receive back in benefits. I believe personal accounts will give our children and grandchildren retirement security that Social Security will not be able to offer in them in the near future. "It is important to remember that any changes to Social Security will not affect the benefits made to retirees and those nearing retirement. America has made a solemn promise to our seniors and I will work in Congress to make sure that promise is kept. In addition to the president's proposals, I know we will have ideas from both the House and Senate that will formulate the debate on how to move forward on this issue. "The State of the Union speech would not have been complete without a tremendous tribute to our troops. The president thanked the brave men and women who have made tremendous sacrifices to bring freedom to nations around the world. The success of the elections in both Iraq and Afghanistan, were victories for freedom loving people everyone. This success will not only lead to a safer and more secure Iraq and Afghanistan but a safer America. Because of their service there is a new hope for peace in the Middle East and a more secure country here at home. "Tonight's address to the nation gave a good perspective on where we have been and a vision for where we are headed. Under the leadership of President Bush, America has accomplished much, but there is still much work to be done." ###
01.27.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole announced today he was a co-sponsor of two pieces of legislation that will clarify ambiguity in the tax code to ensure taxes will not be levied on FEMA (Federal Emergency Management Agency) grants used to build storm shelters. "The IRS recently ruled that federal funds used to build storm shelters would be taxable income. We are doing everything we can to reverse this decision before tax time this year. Congressman Tom Cole said. "I am co-sponsoring two bills introduced yesterday that if passed will not require recipients to pay taxes on these grants. I will continue to work to make sure the legislation that moves forward includes all grant recipients, even those granted before 1999." Both pieces of legislation introduced yesterday will add clarification to the tax code to ensure grants for storm shelters will not be taxed. Congressman Foley's legislation will cover grants made in taxable year 2004 and forward. Congressman Cole is also a co-sponsor of legislation introduced by Congressman Bobby Jindal (LA-01) that has language more specific to include all grantees made, "before, during or after enactment of this act." "I will continue to work with my colleagues, the IRS and the Ways and Means Committee to ensure enacted legislation covers all awardees dating back to 1999," Congressman Cole said. "I will not be content until I have confirmation from the IRS that this tax will not levied on any individual who receives this grant. " In December, Congressman Cole became aware of an IRS ruling that determined all FEMA (Federal Emergency Management Agency) grants to build storm shelters would be taxable as income. This ruling would require the several thousand Oklahomans who received this grant to pay the tax. The grants averaged $2,000 per reward. "It does not make sense for the government to tax federal money used to build storm shelters that will help save lives during severe weather," Congressman Cole said.###
01.04.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Fourth District Congressman Tom Cole was appointed to a coveted seat on the powerful House Rules Committee last night by House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert. The Rules Committee is part of the House leadership and works with the Speaker and the Majority Leader to schedule bills and set the terms of debate on the Floor. It serves as a "legislative gatekeeper" and every piece of legislation considered by the House must first go through the Rules Committee. The nine Republican members of the Rules Committee are personally selected by the Speaker, subject to a vote of approval by the House Republican Conference. The House Republican Conference approved the nominees last night. Committee appointments require final approval by the full House. This pro forma action usually takes place by unanimous consent and is expected in the near future. "Tom Cole is a respected member of the House, on both sides of the aisle," said Speaker Hastert. "I added him to my leadership team because, quite simply, Tom knows how to get things done in Washington. I trust him to help our team get things done for the American people" "This is a tremendous honor," Cole said. "Joining the Speaker's leadership team also is an enormous responsibility. I have worked hard the last two years to strengthen our armed forces as they defend us in Iraq, Afghanistan and around the world, support conservative values, reduce the deficit, and to advance the interests of Oklahoma. Gaining a seat at the leadership table will help me to effectively represent the views and values of the people of the Fourth Congressional District." In December, Cole was promoted to deputy whip by House Majority Whip Roy Blunt. He had served as an assistant whip during his first two years in Congress. Cole is starting his second term in the House. "This is a huge win for Oklahoma," said former U.S. Senator and University of Oklahoma President David Boren. "The Rules Committee is widely acknowledged to be the most powerful committee in the House. Tom Cole will have a voice in shaping the contents and debate of virtually every bill that affects Oklahoma. The value of Tom's promotion to our state should not be underestimated." Congressman Cole will retain his seat and seniority on the House Armed Services Committee. However, he will take a leave of absence from the Armed Services Committee because Rules Committee members are traditionally barred from actively serving on more than one committee due to the importance of the assignment. "Fort Sill, Tinker Air Force Base, and our other military bases in Oklahoma remain as central parts of my focus and work in Congress," Cole added. "I will retain a voice in shaping the annual defense authorization bill and enhance my ability to work with other committees that craft other important military legislation such as the defense and military construction appropriations bills, and intelligence and homeland security legislation." Cole is the first Oklahoman to be appointed to the Rules Committee in over 30 years. According to the Congressional Research Service, only three other Oklahomans in the history of Congress have served on the Rules Committee. They are:1) John Conover (Jack) Nichols served in the House from 1935-1943. He was a Democrat and served on the majority side of the panel in the 77th and 78th Congresses (1941-1943).2) Ross Rizley served in the House from 1941-1949. He was a Republican and served on the majority side of the panel from 1947-1948 (80th Congress).3) Clem Rogers McSpadden served in the House from 1973-1974. He was a Democrat and served in the majority on the panel from 1973-1974 (93rd Congress).###
01.04.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Chairman of the Armed Services Duncan Hunter make the following statement today after a meeting with Congressman Cole about his new committee assignment. "Tom's appointment to the Rule's Committee is a huge asset for national security as he will serve as an important partner in bringing the DoD bill to the House floor. Tom will also continue to be involved in the work of the Armed Services Committee as his insight on defense issues is invaluable," Chairman Hunter said. ###
12.23.2004	Washington, D.C.-"I was extremely upset to find in today's Daily Oklahoman a story concerning the Internal Revenue Service decision to tax the federal grant money individuals received to build tornado shelters. It makes no sense for the government to tax federal money for this purpose. Shelters save lives, mitigate damages and make sense. Taxing the very grants to make that possible does not." "For the IRS to use it's discretionary powers to levy a new tax on Oklahomans who are trying to do the right thing, and then turn around and blame the matter on Congress is simply outrageous. This is a senseless bureaucratic decision that ought to be reversed. I have personally placed calls to Treasury Secretary John Snow and IRS Commissioner Mark Everson to protest this decision and to ask them to reverse it. I have also directed my staff to immediately begin putting together a bill to undo this unwanted Christmas present from the IRS." "It is also my understanding that IRS has ordered local governments to do work it ought to do itself--identify taxpayers who have received these grants and send them the appropriate federal tax forms. Local governments have enough to do and surely do not have enough resources to act as surrogates for the IRS." ###
12.07.2004	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole voted for legislation that will make extensive changes to our current intelligence operations to help keep our country safe and secure. The 9/11 Commission Implementation Act conference report (S. 2845) passed in the House today. "The nation's security is Congress's number one priority. This legislation proves that we are serious about legitimate and effective reforms that will improve our national intelligence operations and our domestic security," Congressman Cole said. S. 2845 creates a new Director of National Intelligence, establishes a strong counter terrorism network and eases communication between different government branches and agencies. The Director of National Intelligence will coordinate the use of resources across the intelligence community, while ensuring the adequate and timely flow of intelligence to our troops. S. 2845 will also preserve the existing statutory chain of command and leave the day-to-day operations and support for our soldiers with the Department of Defense. "I am particularly pleased that military intelligence assets were left under control of the commanders in the battlefield. This precaution will help protect our troops on the front lines," Congressman Cole said. This legislation doubles the current number of border patrol officers to 10,000 over the next five years and provides 40,000 new detention beds to prevent potential terrorists from being released onto the streets. "We still have a ways to go in reforming our security operations, specifically in border security and terrorist travel protection measures," Congressman Cole said. "We will continue to work in the 109th Congress to make even greater improvements to our intelligence and take even further precautions to protect America's borders."###
12.07.2004	NORMAN,OK. - Congressman Tom Cole recently hired two additional employees to help in his Oklahoma district offices. Brice Kornegay was hired as a field representative in Cole's Norman office and Amber Pollard as a caseworker in his Ada office. "I am very pleased that Brice and Amber decided to join our team. With their help we can continue serving Oklahoma's Fourth Congressional District effectively and efficiently," Congressman Cole said. Amber Pollard will serve as military and veterans caseworker. She will handle casework for constituents that have or are currently serving in uniform. Amber Pollard is a graduate of Ada High School and East Central University. Pollard interned for Congressman Cole in 2003. She is the daughter of Lan Vandeveer, a retired Lt. Colonel, and Carol Vandeveer who is a secretary for the Pontotoc Technology Center. Pollard currently resides in Ada with her son. Brice Kornegay will serve as field representative for the northern counties in the 4th district, representing the Congressman in Oklahoma, Canadian, Cleveland McClain and Grady Counties Brice Kornegay attended Norman High School North. He currently resides in Norman and is a student at the University of Oklahoma. During college Kornegay interned on Congressman Cole's first campaign in 2002 and recently headed his campaign in 2004. He also worked in Congressman Cole's office as a staff assistant from January 2003 until January 2004. ###
12.06.2004	WASHINGTON, D.C. -Today, Majority Whip Roy Blunt promoted Congressman Tom Cole to Deputy Whip. This position is responsible for corralling votes for critical legislative initiatives. "I have enjoyed working with the Congressman Blunt and other members of the whip team during the last session. The whipping operation is vital in assuring our party is working as a team to accomplish the priorities of the President and the American people," Congressman Cole said. "Because of the many issues facing our country now, it is more important than ever to be able to quickly and accurately count votes. I am looking forward to this new responsibility." Congressman Cole served in the Whip organization as an Assistant Whip during the 108th Congress, one of a few first term Members to hold that position. There are fewer Deputy Whip positions than Assistant Whips. The Deputy Whip is heavily engaged on important votes and holds more responsibility than the Assistant Whip. "Tom was an excellent Assistant Whip, and I know his experience in that position will make him an even better Deputy Whip. I am pleased that he has agreed to do this very important job. I look forward to working with him every day to move the majority agenda forward in the House," Majority Whip Blunt said. "Tom Cole’s new role will give Oklahoma’s Fourth District an even bigger voice in the decision-making process in the House. This is a real win for Oklahoma." The Deputy Whip position is a step toward a leadership post in the House. ###
12.06.2004	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Cole voted today for legislation that will establish a voluntary program under which federal employees may purchase supplemental dental and vision insurance through the Federal Employment Health Benefit Program (FEHBP). The Federal Employee Dental and Vision Benefits Enhancement Act of 2004 (S. 2657) passed today in the House. "This legislation allows the Federal government to leverage its purchasing power to lower the cost of care to federal employees in order to provide the level of dental and vision benefits that most other employees in the United States already enjoy," Congressman Cole said. "In order to keep and retain quality employees, the government must provide for these basic health care needs." The U.S. Chamber of Commerce Annual Report on Employee Benefits indicates that employees rank dental benefits as one of the top five benefit offerings. In 2003, 96% of private employers with 500 or more employees and 98% of employers with 20,000 or more employees provided dental benefits to their workforce. All states, except Kentucky and Mississippi, offer dental coverage to state employees. The Federal Employment Health Benefit Program covers over 8.6 million individuals, including 2.2 million federal and postal employees, 1.9 million federal annuitants, and 4.5 million dependents. "There are over 40,000 federal employees in Oklahoma and these workers deserve the same care as state employees and those working in the private sector," Congressman Cole said. Minimal dental and vision benefits are currently available in the FEHBP because over 15 years ago, the Office of Personnel Management stopped allowing plans to add new dental and vision packages or to increase packages they already had in place. A recent review found:· only 1 carrier in the FEHBP offered specific preventative dental care for children· less than 1/3 offered preventative care for all ages· less than 1/3 offered minor restorative dental care· 1/5 offered any major restorative dental care This legislation has already passed in the Senate and will now go to the President for his signature. ###
12.01.2004	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole will be attending a ceremony on December 6, in Pearl Harbor, Hawaii to dedicate a permanent display for the USS Oklahoma. Congressman Cole worked with the National Park Service to ensure the establishment of a permanent display at the visitor's center. Congressman Cole noted that if a vote on The 9/11 Commission Implementation Act (H.R. 10) is scheduled on that day he would forgo the ceremony to participate in that important vote. "This is the first step in a long overdue process to establish a memorial for the USS Oklahoma and the many crewmembers who worked aboard. I will continue to work with the National Park Service to create a memorial for the Oklahoma and the 400 crew members that lost their lives in the largest foreign military attack on U.S. soil," Congressman Tom Cole said. Congressman Cole is working to make sure a memorial is built at Ford Island for the USS Oklahoma. "The men aboard this ship served our country proudly. We should do what we can to honor their service and make sure their sacrifices will not be forgotten," Congressman Tom Cole said. The USS Oklahoma was at Pearl Harbor when the Japanese attacked on 7 December 1941. The battleship was hit by a great number of Japanese Type 91 aerial torpedoes. After it was hit, the port side was torn open and the Oklahoma rolled over and sank to the harbor bottom. The Oklahoma lost over 400 crewmembers although many of the men trapped in her upturned hull were cut free through the intense efforts of Sailors and civilian Navy Yard employees.###
11.20.2004	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole secured $1,108,113 for the Ardmore Municipal Airport in the FY05 spending bills that passed in the U.S. House today. The Consolidated Appropriations Act for an FY2005, H.R. 4818, will provide funding for reconstruction of the runway at the Ardmore Municipal Airport. " I am very pleased that these funds were included in the final version of the spending bill that passed in the House today. This grant will help the Ardmore Municipal Airport better serve the aviation needs of the community," Congressman Tom Cole said. Also included in the bill is funding for blight removal in Wilson (Carter County). The funding will be available through a grant whose actual dollar amount will be determined by the Department of Agriculture. The spending bill passed today in the House will fund America's priorities for 2005 while funding priority projects in Oklahoma. This legislation fully complies with the spending targets agreed to by the Congress and the Administration by freezing non-defense discretionary spending. ###
11.20.2004	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Cole secured $807,000 for priority projects in the Lawton area in FY05 spending bills that passed in the U.S. House today. The Consolidated Appropriations Act for FY2005, H.R. 4818, will provide funding for water and transportation projects in the Lawton area. "These are important projects for the Lawton Community and I am very pleased that these funds were included in the final version of the spending bills that passed in the House today," Congressman Tom Cole said. The spending bill contains funds for the following projects:· Lawton buses and bus facilities, $207,000· Lawton wastewater infrastructure rehabilitation project, $600,000 Also included in this legislation for the Lawton area are the following projects whose actual dollar amount will be determined by the Department of Agriculture. These projects will be available through discretionary grants: Sewer line improvements in Chattanooga Painting of the water tower in Sterling Restoration of the community building in Cache The spending bill passed today in the House will fund America's priorities for 2005 while funding priority projects in Oklahoma. This legislation fully complies with the spending targets agreed to by the Congress and the Administration by freezing non-defense discretionary spending. ###
