02.19.2019	Washington, D.C. – Senator Dianne Feinstein and Representatives Jim Costa and TJ Cox sent a letter last week to the United States Bureau of Reclamation urging the Bureau to incorporate recent precipitation into the initial water allocations to Central Valley Project (CVP) water contractors given the high amount of rainfall and snow the region has experienced since the February 1st water forecast. Farmers and ranchers use these allocations to efficiently plan their operations. The need for allocations that reflect real-time water supply realities was one driving factor in the 2016 Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act provisions which direct the Secretary of the Interior to operate the CVP so it provides contractors with the “maximum quantity of water supplies practicable… as quickly as possible, based on available information.” Sen. Feinstein and Reps. Costa and Cox state in their message that “storage in all CVP reservoirs was near or more than 100% the long-term average” before calling on the Bureau to “incorporate the benefits of recent snowfall and precipitation into its analysis to determine initial allocations to its contractors, instead of relying exclusively on the February 1 projections, which is no longer a realistic picture of available water supply.” “Water is the lifeblood of our Valley. Farmers need early and accurate allocations in order to plan their operations,” said Rep. Costa (CA-16). “The recent rain and snow should be incorporated into the initial water allocations so our farmers, ranchers, and farm communities can continue to use water wisely and maximize the benefits. I am hopeful that the Bureau will listen to our message and allocate water to Central Valley Project water contractors based on the amount of water in California now, rather than on how much was available on February 1st.” “Our district is one of the most agriculturally productive in the country – and our farmers and ranchers need certainty of water allocations,” said Rep. TJ Cox (CA-21). “I am hopeful that the Bureau of Reclamation takes the current conditions and higher rates of snowfall into account so that our communities can adequately plan for the year ahead.” The officials close their message by urging the Bureau to also continue revising allocations through the remainder of the winter and spring as conditions change. You can read the full letter sent to the United States Bureau of Reclamation online here. ###
02.15.2019	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement regarding President Trump’s national emergency proclamation: “The President’s proclamation today is a clear abuse of executive power. My Republican friends have criticized previous administrations for far less. Conservatives should be outraged by the President’s action today. “There is no real national emergency at our border, as the facts clearly show. Our nation’s intelligence chiefs appointed by the President have recently testified before Congress that there is no national emergency at our border. “The President’s proclamation today of a national emergency, I find very disappointing.” ###
02.12.2019	Fresno, CA – Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement regarding California Governor Gavin Newsom’s February 12th State of the State address: “The Governor today, in his State of the State address, outlined a new direction for California. His priorities for water and transportation will provide a fresh look, and I hope new opportunities. “Attempting to pursue a more centrist approach to creating water sustainability in California is the key. “On high-speed rail, his proposal to change the plan, though more modest, will still benefit the Valley. I do not believe these changes foreclose a future HSR system for California. “I want to work with him on both of these important projects as well as other issues that are important to the Valley, such as clean drinking water and healthcare.” ###
01.30.2019	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) was named to the Water, Oceans, and Wildlife Subcommittee of the House Committee on Natural Resources yesterday. Rep. Costa is a senior member of the Natural Resources Committee, and this position rounds out Costa’s committee seats for the 116th Congress. “With my seniority on Natural Resources, leadership of the Agriculture Subcommittee on Livestock and Foreign Agriculture, and Foreign Affairs Committee position, I will represent a Valley trifecta of interests and needs: water, trade, and agriculture and nutrition,” said Costa. “For nearly forty years, I have been working for long-term, bipartisan solutions to tackle the challenges we face in the Valley, and I am better positioned than ever to lead responsible and effective legislation that improves the lives of the people of the Valley and all Americans.” Last week, Congressman Costa was elected Chairperson of the House Agriculture Committee’s Subcommittee on Livestock and Foreign Agriculture, which oversees agriculture trade promotion, dairy, livestock, poultry, and foreign agriculture assistance. Additionally, Costa will return to the House Foreign Affairs Committee this congress and also serve as Chair of the U.S. Delegation to the Transatlantic Legislators Dialogue. ###
01.24.2019	Washington, D.C. – Today, Valley Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) was elected Chairperson of the House Agriculture Committee’s Subcommittee on Livestock and Foreign Agriculture. As Chair, Rep. Costa will lead the subcommittee that oversees agriculture trade promotion, dairy, livestock, poultry, and foreign agriculture assistance. “This leadership position provides me a powerful tool to fight for our Valley farmers, families, and local economy,” said Costa. “As leader of the Subcommittee, I will continue my strong advocacy for our Valley’s dairy and poultry industries and work to promote market access and improve trade programs for California and American agriculture. I am excited to get to work, leading the Subcommittee to create effective bipartisan solutions to tackle the challenges our agriculture producers are facing in California and across the United States.” In addition to chairing the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Livestock and Foreign Agriculture, Congressman Costa will also serve on the House Foreign Affairs Committee and return to his senior position on the House Natural Resources Committee. Valley Congressmen TJ Cox (CA-21) and Josh Harder (CA-10) were also named to the Livestock and Foreign Agriculture Subcommittee, with one-third of the Subcommittee seats now filled by Central Valley representatives. ###
12.20.2018	Washington, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives updated and reauthorized funding for programs in the Victims of Child Abuse Act (VOCAA) today, including Children’s Advocacy Centers and support organizations. These programs are vital for providing Valley survivors of child abuse the services and justice they need to heal and live healthy, productive, and full lives. “This is an important step to support some of the most vulnerable in our communities: victims of child abuse,” said Valley Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16), lead Democrat on the House’s version of the bill and co-founder and co-chair of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus. “Addressing these cases can be very difficult, but we know that Children’s Advocacy Centers are effective at bringing together community and government resources to support victims. We have seen the power of these Centers and this approach in the Valley, across California, and throughout the country. Our goal with this legislation is to ensure that all of our children – especially victims of these horrendous crimes – have the support they need to grow up healthy and safe and pursue their fullest potential.” There are currently five Children’s Advocacy Centers (CACs) located in Fresno, Merced, and Madera counties providing services for thousands of children in the Central Valley. For example, VOCAA funds support the Family Healing Center in Fresno, which provides trauma-informed forensic interviews and therapy to 300 children every year. The Valley Children’s Hospital clinic sees another 1000 cases per year. To better address the unmet need, this reauthorization includes resources to create, train, and support new CACs in underserved areas. “Children’s Advocacy Centers of California (CACC) fully supports the reauthorization of the Victims of Child Abuse Act,” said Erin Harper, Executive Director of CACC. “With over 58 counties in California, we have seen the incredible impact Children’s Advocacy Centers have in helping abused children heal from abuse, and helping communities hold offenders accountable. VOCAA funding makes communities safer, children healthier, and investigations more efficient. We very much appreciate Rep. Costa's commitment to achieving justice and healing for abused children in California. He is a leader in the mission to ensure that all children are safe, healthy, and whole.” Over the past twenty years, CACs have been proven successful at effectively and compassionately serving victims of child abuse. In recent years, the number of child abuse victims served by CACs has tripled, reaching nearly 335,000 children in 2017 alone. “As the national association and accrediting body for Children’s Advocacy Centers, National Children’s Alliance not only thanks Representatives Jim Costa and Ted Poe, as well as Senator Roy Blunt, Senator Chris Coons, and other CAC champions for their leadership in introducing the Victims of Child Abuse Act Reauthorization Act of 2018, but also in championing the cause of children on Capitol Hill,” said Teresa Huizar, Executive Director of the National Children’s Alliance. “This crucial bill is something our nation’s CACs and our children rely on, and is the only federal program solely dedicated to developing CACs and improving the services they provide to kids that have been abused. With Congress in our corner, CACs now serve more than 330,000 abused children every year, and have provided healing mental health services to more than a million children over the past decade.” “Every day, children suffer from a heinous crime at the hands of evildoers – child abuse,” said Congressman Ted Poe (TX-2), lead Republican on the House’s version of the bill and Rep. Costa’s fellow co-founder and co-chair of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus. “The passing of the Victims of Child Abuse Act ensures that Children Advocacy Centers across the country are able to continue to expedite the prosecution of offenders, reduce violent encounters, improve safety in communities across the country, and most importantly, protect our children.” The legislation updating and reauthorizing VOCAA programs passed unanimously in the U.S. Senate and by a vote of 388 to 2 in the House of Representatives. It will be sent to the President to sign into law. ###
12.18.2018	Fresno, CA – Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) issued the following statement regarding the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) – of which he is a member – visiting Lordsburg Station to investigate the circumstances surrounding the death of Jakelin Amei Rosmery Caal Maquin while she was in U.S. Customs and Border Protection custody: “I would like to thank CHC Chairman-elect Joaquin Castro and all CHC members who were able to travel to Lordsburg today for being leaders in the investigation of the circumstances surrounding the tragic death of Jakelin Amei Rosmery Caal Maquin. “As a nation, we must ensure our facilities and policies support our American values. This includes treating all people humanely, justly, and with dignity. While I could not be with my fellow CHC members today, I stand in solidarity with them in their investigation. As Americans, we must ensure the health and safety of those seeking refuge at our borders.” ###
12.13.2018	Fresno, CA – Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) issued the following statement after the California State Water Resources Control Board voted to adopt amendments to the Bay-Delta plan that will direct more water from the Merced, Tuolumne, and Stanislaus Rivers to the ocean: “It is my fear that the vote by the State Water Resources Control Board (SWRCB) will only further inflame the conflict over California‘s most precious natural resource: its water. I will use every tool at my disposal to protect the communities I represent from this water grab. “The action taken by the SWRCB is incredibly frustrating. This was a missed opportunity to reset the water wars of the past and to find a better path forward by delaying adoption of the staff proposal to allow continued negotiations to occur on the Merced and Stanislaus rivers. “Instead of adopting the staff proposal, I believe that a negotiated solution for both the San Joaquin and the Sacramento watersheds would have been reached – one that would lead to real improvements for California’s fisheries, such as improved habitat, better predator control, and functional flows. Instead, the Board refused to provide additional time and chose to adopt the staff’s proposal – a proposal that doubles down on the failed policies of the past and brings harm to San Joaquin Valley communities and to California’s agricultural economy. “I commend the U.S. Department of the Interior, the California Department of Water Resources, the California Department of Fish and Wildlife, and the many water users for their herculean efforts to negotiate a balanced solution. If allowed to take place, in my opinion, it would improve fishery outcomes without unnecessarily harming Valley communities. Sadly, the Board failed to provide time to finalize this balanced compromise. “In light of the voluntary agreements that were reached which increase outflow standards, it is essential that Congress act now to extend the WIIN Act with authorization for the Secretary of the Interior to collect funds to implement these voluntary agreements.” ###
12.12.2018	Washington, D.C. – The San Joaquin Valley will see significant benefits in this year’s Farm Bill, which cleared the final congressional hurdle to enactment today when passing in the House of Representatives. Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) – senior member of the House Agriculture Committee, who also served on the Farm Bill Conference Committee that negotiated the final legislation – called on his colleagues to support the bill shortly before it passed today. “As a member of the Farm Bill Conference Committee, I am proud to support this bipartisan, bicameral Farm Bill,” said Rep. Costa. “A third-generation farmer myself, I have the honor and privilege of representing one of the largest and most diverse agricultural regions in the world. This bill is good for the San Joaquin Valley, California agriculture, and farmers and families throughout the nation. It feeds Americans and supports our agriculture producers as they work to put food on dinner tables across the U.S. every night.” For video of Congressman Costa calling for the House to pass the Farm Bill, click here. Rep. Costa was a leading advocate for including numerous programs crucial for Valley communities in the Conference Committee’s version of the Farm Bill, including support for fruit, vegetable, and nut producers, conservation programs, and nutrition assistance. "The Farm Bill is a crucial piece of legislation for the Central Valley,” said Chairman Jerry O’Banion of the Merced County Board of Supervisors. “It not only affects farmers, but also impacts trade, rural development, and food and nutrition programs. The passage of this bill is a fine example of bipartisanship and what can be accomplished when lawmakers work together.” More than half of America’s fruits and vegetables are grown in California, with the Specialty Crop Farm Bill Alliance stating this version of the Farm Bill “represents positive policy changes for specialty crops.” “We are pleased that the farm bill negotiators have completed their task as the 2018 Farm Bill acknowledges the growing importance of the specialty crop industry to American agriculture and offers real progress on many of our top priorities,” said Tom Nassif, President and CEO of Western Growers. “We applaud the committee leaders, conferees like Rep. Costa, and staff for their diligence in producing a strong, bipartisan farm bill.” Included in the bill’s conservation programs is a strengthened Regional Conservation Partnership Program (RCPP), which Valley farmers and conservation groups have used in cooperative projects to increase water quality, protect wildlife habitat, and improve farm operations. Congressman Costa introduced a standalone bill strengthening the RCPP in April, with numerous provisions now incorporated into the Farm Bill. “Audubon’s partnership with California dairy farmers to protect Tricolored Blackbird populations would have been impossible without the Farm Bill and NRCS and impossible without champions like Congressman Costa,” said Audubon California’s Director of Land and Water Conservation, Meghan Hertel. “Increases in conservation funding in RCPP, ACEP, EQIP, and the Watershed Act in the 2018 Farm Bill build on the agency, landowner, and conservation partnerships that helped protect hundreds of thousands of birds over the last decade, while also providing landowners with the technical and financial assistance to make their operations profitable and ecologically sound. In addition to welcome funding boosts, we appreciate the improvements that allow for renewing successful projects and removing barriers to create new future partnerships.” A principal point of contention in Farm Bill negotiations was provisions surround the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), which approximately 25% of individuals living in California’s 16th Congressional District use to fight hunger and food insecurity. The final negotiations include no cuts to SNAP benefits, no changes to the already existing work requirements, and increased funding for voluntary SNAP Employment and Training programs like Fresno’s Bridge Academy. “We applaud Representative Costa’s leadership on SNAP and other core nutrition issues that impact Valley residents in the Farm Bill,” said Rachel Tucker, Senior Policy Associate at California Association of Food Banks. “We are pleased that the conference report chooses to protect SNAP and invests in proven supports like SNAP Employment & Training that are so valuable to our efforts to reduce hunger and poverty as opposed to the harsh cuts proposed in the House bill that would have worsened hunger and hardship.” “We are deeply appreciative of Congressman Costa’s relentless commitment to securing the funding to support SNAP beneficiaries becoming self-sufficient through voluntary employment and training programs at Fresno Bridge Academy and the other nine national pilots originally funded by the USDA under the 2014 Farm Bill,” said Pete Weber, Founder and Chair of the Fresno Bridge Academy. The legislation is now headed to the President to sign into law. For more on Valley victories in the Farm Bill, click here. ###
12.10.2018	Washington, D.C. – The Farm Bill moved one step closer to enactment today, with the Conference Committee filing its report featuring the negotiated version of the bill. “The Farm Bill is America’s food bill, and the legislation we negotiated is designed to support our farmers and families, feed Americans, and increase our nation’s food security,” said Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) after signing the report today. Costa, who served on the Farm Bill Conference Committee and is a senior member of the House Agriculture Committee, continued with, “I fought hard to ensure we negotiated a strong Farm Bill that strengthens crop insurance, treats specialty crop producers equitably, supports conservation programs and new farmers, and protects nutrition assistance for our most vulnerable.” The Conference Committee’s version of the Farm Bill supports efforts critical for the San Joaquin Valley, including: Trade programs proven successful at securing markets vital for California producers – who earn approximately 44% of their revenue through exports – such as: Market Access Program (MAP), which helps develop export markets for California agricultural commodities Foreign Market Development Program (FMD), which maintains foreign markets for California exports Programs supporting farmers who grow fruits, vegetables, nuts, and other specialty crops – with half of the nation’s fruits and vegetables grown in California – such as: Technical Assistance for Specialty Crops (TASC), which helps farmers overcome the regulatory and technical requirements for exporting their products Specialty Crop Research Initiative (SCRI), which focuses on addressing disease and pest threats to crops as well as developing innovative approaches to help strengthen production, including mechanized harvesting to address the agriculture labor shortage $25 million specifically designated to help prevent and combat citrus greening disease, which could devastate the $3.3 billion California citrus industry Organic Agriculture Research and Extension Initiative – whose funding was doubled – and Organic Certification Cost Share Program Conservation programs that allow Valley farmers to continue and to increase their environmental stewardship, such as: A strengthened Regional Conservation Partnership Program (RCPP), which incorporates policies Rep. Costa introduced to assist Valley farmers meet the challenges of increased groundwater management and wildlife habitat conservation Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP), which assists farmers in implementing processes and practices that improve water, air, and soil quality while simultaneously strengthening their agricultural operations The Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) and education and training programs designed to help SNAP recipients become self-sufficient, including: Continued funding for SNAP with no changes to already existing work requirements, a nutrition program which approximately 25% of those living in California’s 16th Congressional District use to help fight hunger and food insecurity $103.9 million in funding for SNAP Education and Training Programs, including priority funding for successful programs like Fresno’s Bridge Academy The Conference Committee’s Farm Bill also: Increases funding for the Outreach and Assistance for Socially Disadvantaged and Veteran Farmers and Ranchers Program – commonly referred to as the 2501 program – which producers across the Valley have used to begin and continue their family agriculture operations Creates and funds the new Animal Pest and Disease Prevention and Response Program and corresponding vaccine bank to ensure the health and security of California livestock Excludes the King Amendment original incorporated into the House’s Farm Bill, which would have harmed California egg producers This version of the Farm Bill now moves to the House and Senate for a vote, with no opportunities to amend the measure. The critical votes are currently expected to occur this week. ###
11.30.2018	Fresno, CA – Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) launched his annual holiday card drive for servicemembers and veterans today, continuing what has become a Valley holiday tradition. Each year, Rep. Costa invites residents of California’s San Joaquin Valley to drop off or mail holiday cards to his Fresno and Merced district offices to be delivered to servicemembers and veterans. Costa also partners with local schools in Fresno, Merced, and Madera counties, where students make cards to thank these Valley heroes and wish them a happy holiday season. “It is so important that we let our military servicemembers, veterans, and their families know how much we value them and everything they do,” said Congressman Costa. “Every year I hold the holiday card drive to encourage people across our Valley to join me in thanking our servicemembers and veterans, showing them just how much their service and sacrifice mean to us.” Cards can be dropped off or mailed to Congressman Costa’s district offices through December 14th. All cards should be signed with first names only and a few lines of appreciation, and then placed in unsealed, unaddressed envelopes. Cards cannot contain glitter or images of guns, blood, war scenes, or death. If mailing cards to Rep. Costa’s office for collection, please place cards in a separate envelope and send to: Congressman Jim Costa “Holiday Cards for Veterans” 855 M Street, Suite 940 Fresno, CA 93721 For more information, please contact Rep. Costa’s office at 559-495-1620 or 209-384-1620. ###
11.20.2018	Washington, D.C. – Valley Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) was elected Vice Chairperson of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly’s Economic Security Committee yesterday during the Assembly’s 64th annual session in Halifax, Canada. “NATO is one of the most significant international organizations in the world, and I am honored that my colleagues elected me Vice Chair of the Economic Security Committee,” said Rep. Costa. “The United States must continue to strengthen its relationships with our international allies. Together, we must consider the comprehensive long-term effects of our decisions and work strategically for global stability and peace.” During this year’s session, Costa proposed three provisions on behalf of the United States, which the Assembly voted to move forward by sending to NATO leadership. The provisions aim to increase stability in the Middle East, provide defense assistance to NATO partners in the Middle East and North Africa, and strengthen NATO’s satellite and other space-based defense capabilities. Rep. Costa was elected Vice Chair of the key committee by delegates from the 29 NATO Parliamentary Assembly Member States. Congressman Costa has been a long-time advocate for working with international allies and partners to make the world safer through a comprehensive strategy of diplomacy, sanctions, and deterrence. He is currently the Ranking Member of the U.S. Delegation to the Transatlantic Legislators Dialogue and Co-chair of the Transatlantic Policy Network’s Steering Committee. ###
11.09.2018	Washington, D.C. – This week Valley Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) led a bipartisan coalition of 42 members of the House Specialty Crop Caucus in calling on House and Senate Agriculture Committee leadership to give specialty crops – such as fruits, vegetables, and nuts – equal treatment in ongoing Farm Bill Conference Committee negotiations. “California produces more than half of America’s fresh fruits and vegetables, which are the staples of the healthy meals we all need,” said Rep. Costa, a longtime advocate for Central Valley agriculture. “Specialty crop producers face unique challenges that a strong Farm Bill must address so they can continue to put food on America’s dinner tables every night.” The bipartisan coalition stated their priorities for supporting specialty crop producers in overcoming such challenges. These include programs which are critical for both California and Valley agriculture, such as: Plant pest and disease programs, which provided Fresno County with $1,641,751 in 2016-2017 to protect crops from pests and diseases The Specialty Crop Research Initiative, including the Emergency Citrus Disease Research & Development Trust Fund, which will be used in California to protect citrus from citrus greening disease Technical Assistance for Specialty Crops, which helps producers answer the ever-increasing technical requirements for international trade, most notably supporting almond, wine grape, and walnut producers in the Central Valley Specialty Crop Block Grants, which last year brought $22.6 million to California to fund 83 projects that expand markets for specialty crops, provide nutritional education for consumers, and many other benefits The Specialty Crop Farm Bill Alliance – a national coalition of more than 120 organizations representing growers of fruits, vegetables, dried fruit, tree nuts, nursery plants, and other products – shared, “We applaud Congressmen Costa and Upton for leading this bipartisan letter to ensure that specialty crop industry priorities are included in the next Farm Bill. Thanks to their leadership, we are confident that Farm Bill conferees now further understand the importance of specialty crop programs, as well as the diversity of our industry that crosses all 50 states. The investments this new Farm Bill makes in areas such as research, trade, and nutrition are vital to specialty crops, and we look forward to continue working with them to get this legislation passed and signed into law.” For the bipartisan coalition’s full message, click here. ###
11.07.2018	Fresno, CA – Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) issued the following statement after the California State Water Resources Control Board voted today to delay the final vote on amendments to the Bay-Delta plan until December 12, 2018: “The Board’s decision today to allow negotiations on voluntary settlement agreements to continue until mid-December at the Governor and Governor-elect’s request is a positive one. “We are presented with a unique opportunity – to reset the water wars of the past and find a better path forward by negotiating a solution that would minimize the conflict over California’s most precious natural resource: its water. Science shows that improving habitat, predator control, and functional flows will lead to improved fishery health while minimizing impacts to the reliability of water supplies and harm to California’s agricultural economy. Today’s action by the Board allows these negotiations to continue.” ###
11.01.2018	Fresno, CA – The federal milk marketing order takes effect in California today, marking the culmination of years of work and the beginning of a new era for California dairy. In 2013, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) introduced the California Federal Milk Marketing Order Act with Central Valley colleague Congressman David Valadao (CA-21) and other Valley members of the House of Representatives. Enacted as part of the 2014 Farm Bill, their legislation set in motion the process by which California dairy producers petitioned the U.S. Department of Agriculture to enter into a new price setting structure to increase the competitiveness of California producers. “When our dairy producers came to me about wanting a federal milk marketing order in California, I reached across the aisle to my Valley colleagues, introduced a measure, and worked for its bipartisan enactment in the last Farm Bill,” said Rep. Costa. “I look forward to seeing the positive effects this will have for our dairy farmers and our entire Valley community.” This could bring widespread benefits to regions rich with dairy farms, such as Merced County, where dairy producers are responsible for nearly a third of the county’s $3.1 billion total agriculture value. By allowing California producers to be more competitive with producers from other states, the federal milk marketing order (FMMO) is expected to increase the amount dairy farmers get for their milk. This should help prevent the ongoing slide of the dairy industry in many California communities, which will protect jobs and strengthen local economies. Before the federal milk marketing order, California’s milk price regulation program was run by the California Department of Food and Agriculture. However, dairy farmers in California are competing with producers across the nation who operate under the federal program. According to Geoff Vanden Heuvel, Director of Regulatory and Economic Affairs for the Milk Producers Council, this is a primary reason California producers voted to adopt the FMMO. “Producers in California were being regulated by different rules than our competition,” explained Vanden Heuvel. “By opting for the federal milk marketing order, we chose to level the playing field with our competition. This should hopefully allow our dairy farmers to get paid more for their milk.” ###
10.31.2018	Fresno, CA – Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) hosted national, state, and Valley leaders, survivor service providers, law enforcement, and victim advocates at a forum today at Fresno State on serving victims and survivors of violent crime. “Ensuring survivors of crime get the justice they deserve and the support they need in their recovery has been one of my priorities since I was first elected to Congress,” said Rep. Costa. “This requires that we collaborate and share our experiences and expertise. We learned a great deal today that strengthens our advocacy by listening to the voices of survivors. As a co-founder of the bipartisan Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus over a decade ago, it is the stories of these crime victims and their families that motivate me every day. This forum provided all of us an opportunity to listen and learn. Everyone here today is dedicated to this task, and I look forward to continuing to work together to serve our crime victims, survivors, and their families. Krista Niemczyk, Public Policy Manager for the California Partnership to End Domestic Violence, described the forum with: “This event was an important opportunity to end Domestic Violence Awareness Month by calling attention to the needs of survivors and their families, and the range of services available to support them towards healing. From reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act to working directly with survivors in the community, we all have a role to play in ending domestic violence.” National Victim Advocate Anne Seymour, who also spoke at this morning’s event, said, “Congressman Costa and the Caucus have amplified victims’ voices for 14 years. With the horrific hate crimes occurring in our nation last weekend over a 72-hour-period, this forum is timely and critical to the Caucus’ efforts to help survivors and communities traumatized by crime.” Survivors, advocates, and experts spoke about difficulties, advancements, and how to overcome challenges related to serving survivors and supporting service providers to roughly 85 local community member and leaders who attended. One common theme rose: We must listen to our survivors and hear their experience to better serve victims of violence. “Bringing voice to the voiceless is not only the first step in combatting sexual assault and sexual violence, it is the foundation for successfully providing the critical care needed to restore shattered lives,” said Debra Rush, Co-founder and CEO of Breaking the Chains, a Valley organization that works to prevent, rescue, and serve survivors of human trafficking. “As an ‘overcomer,’ I believe that the community needs to hear from the overcomers to understand what truly makes a difference,” shared Founder and CEO of Angels of Grace Lisa Casarez. “It only takes one person to change your life.” ###
10.29.2018	Fresno, CA – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) called on President Trump to use his position as President to unite the American people around American values and a commitment to civility. In his message to the President, Rep. Costa states, “In the minds of many, America is at a crossroads, with one path leading to healing wounds and nurturing the common bonds that we share as a country, and another leading to fostering discontent and further fracturing the values upon which our nation was founded. I believe that these reprehensible acts of violence provide an opportunity for a renewed commitment to American values and civility, and I urge you to work towards that end.” Costa closes with, “Mr. President, we must work to reunite our country, and your position lends you a platform unlike any other to elevate this national dialogue. I am committed to working with you to curb these acts of violence and restore civility.” For Congressman Costa’s full message to President Trump, click here. ###
10.26.2018	Fresno, CA – The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced this week it would award the San Joaquin Valley Air Pollution Control District (SJVAPCD) over $3.7 million for two projects the District is spearheading to improve Valley air quality by reducing heavy-duty diesel vehicle emissions. The SJVAPCD was awarded the federal funding through the EPA’s Diesel Emission Reduction Act (DERA) grants program and will match the federal dollars with SJVAPCD funds for both projects. Congressman Costa has been a longtime supporter of the DERA program, most recently joining his House colleagues in advocating for continued and robust program support in the 2019 Fiscal Year spending bill. “The Valley faces unique challenges when it comes to improving our air quality, and I applaud the District for designing effective programs that both meet the real needs in the San Joaquin Valley and deservingly earn federal support,” said Valley Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16). “Our communities are best served when local, state, and federal leaders work together, and I look forward to continuing to work with the District to make our air cleaner and to build a stronger and healthier Valley for all of us.” The first project will replace over 100 heavy-duty diesel trucks in the Valley with newer trucks, while the second will replace 100 diesel-powered agricultural tractors with new off-road agricultural equipment. Both projects require the new replacement vehicles to have dramatically lower emissions than the older vehicles, meeting or even exceeding current EPA emission standards. Agriculture and trucking are critical for the Valley’s economy, and both currently rely on diesel-fueled vehicles or equipment that are a significant source of air pollution. These projects aim to support the Valley’s economic needs while also improving the region’s air quality and health. “Agriculture is essential to the success of the San Joaquin Valley. The District will continue working with Valley growers, EPA, and other agencies to keep moving forward with clean air efforts and investments in the San Joaquin Valley,” said Samir Sheikh, SJVAPCD Executive Director and Air Pollution Control Officer. ###
10.25.2018	Fresno, CA – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) issued the following statement regarding the recent mailing of explosives to political leaders and media outlets: “The recent targeting of political leaders and media outlets with explosive packages should raise concerns regarding our current political climate for all Americans. “We all have a role to play. Leaders, such as myself, and others aspiring for political office must be responsible with our words and messages: We must maintain a civil tone, and we should not play on people’s fears and differences to increase our public standing or political power. Let us remember, the bonds we share as Americans are far stronger than whatever differences we may have. “In addition, I would like to thank our law enforcement for their swift action in intercepting the explosives and for risking their lives every day to keep us safe.” ###
10.23.2018	Merced, CA – The San Joaquin Valley is set to see substantial benefits from today’s enactment of new federal water legislation, including increases in the Valley’s ability to work through back-to-back years of drought conditions and reduce the risk of flooding during wet years. Thanks to the bipartisan leadership of Congressmen Jim Costa (CA-16) and Jeff Denham (CA-10), America’s Water Infrastructure Act (AWIA) includes provisions that open doors for water projects previously sealed shut by unnecessary bureaucratic red tape and expands financing options and incentives for investing in new water storage. Combined, these lay the path for the first new surface water storage in the Valley in decades, supporting local irrigation districts in their efforts to raise spillway gates, build new water storage facilities, and repair and expand dams, reservoirs, and other water projects. Last week Rep. Costa, Merced Irrigation District (MID), and Merced County Hispanic Chamber of Commerce held a press conference to discuss what this new legislation would mean for the Merced community and the people of the Valley. “Water is the lifeblood of our Valley, and we must have safe, reliable sources of water in both wet and dry years,” said Rep. Costa. “America’s Water Infrastructure Act uses multiple approaches to help increase surface water storage in the Valley, which will strengthen our resilience to drought. This will provide our communities with more than just water; It also increases the certainty our local economy needs to thrive and protects our way of life.” Hicham ElTal, MID Deputy General Manager of Water Supply and Rights, said, “We have worked on this issue for many years and this represents a key first step for MID in enhancing storage in Lake McClure. We appreciate the work of Congressman Costa and other local Congress members, as well as the community for supporting us in this endeavor.” “We are excited for progress on this project, which will increase water storage and water supplies for Merced County,” shared Rene Gutierrez, President of Merced County Hispanic Chamber of Commerce. “The water in the Valley means jobs. Water impacts everyone, not just ranchers and farm workers, but everyone. Our jobs and way of life are at risk. Water is everyone's business and vital to the Central Valley community.” ###
10.19.2018	Fresno, CA – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) issued the following statement on the President’s memorandum aimed at streamlining regulatory processes and eliminating redundant and unnecessary water infrastructure regulations: “Today’s announcement by the President is the next step in restoring more reliable water supplies to all regions of California. For years, communities throughout the San Joaquin Valley have been harmed by the regulations imposed under the Endangered Species Act which reduce the Valley’s water supplies in order to restore fish populations. When these regulations were first proposed, I raised significant questions about the validity of the science used in their development. Since that time, a substantial scientific body of evidence has emerged which indicates that pumping restrictions are not the best way to protect endangered fish populations. Instead, addressing other stressors – like limiting predation by fish like the striped bass, increasing food production, and restoring critical habitat – is more effective in restoring endangered populations. There is no silver bullet to solving California’s water challenges. It takes dedication and a commitment to working across the aisle to develop commonsense policies that help all regions of California. I’d like to commend President Trump for issuing this Presidential Memorandum to identify a single person to be responsible for reducing harmful regulations that limit water supplies to the Valley, restore scientific integrity to the regulatory process, and expedite much-needed water storage in California and across the West.” ###
10.19.2018	Fresno, CA – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) issued the following statement on the reported death of journalist Jamal Khashoggi: “I am appalled by the reports that Saudi officials were involved in the death of Jamal Khashoggi, a journalist and Saudi dissident. As we learn more details of Khashoggi’s disappearance, the U.S. must send a clear message that we will not condone such reprehensible behavior that goes against our American values. We must carefully examine both the facts surrounding Khashoggi’s disappearance as well as our relationship with Saudi Arabia, and I call on the President to take strong action in unwavering defense of our values. If the President will not stand up to Saudi Arabia, then we in Congress must stand strong for our nation, our values, and journalists throughout the world.” ###
10.19.2018	Merced, CA – More than 80 school administrators, law enforcement officials and behavioral health experts met on Friday at the Merced County Fairgrounds to discuss school safety at the Merced County School Safety Summit. Hosted by Merced County Superintendent of Schools Dr. Steve Tietjen and Congressman Jim Costa, the summit including working sessions focused on school safety planning, behavioral health in schools and creating a campus culture that promotes student safety and wellbeing. Representatives from the Merced County Sheriff’s Office, Merced Union High School District, Delhi Unified School District and Merced County Behavioral Health and Recovery Services presented to the group on best practices and engaging students and the community. “Keeping our kids safe is one of the most important responsibilities we have,” said Congressman Costa. “I would like to commend Superintendent Steve Tietjen and other Merced education leaders throughout the county, the Merced County Sheriff’s Office and local law enforcement officials, and our behavioral health leaders for their instrumental role in today’s school safety summit. We must address multiple areas regarding school safety, which requires we collaborate and coordinate. That’s why we brought together our Merced experts and leaders in education, law enforcement, and behavioral health for today’s meeting, and why I hosted a similar school safety summit in Fresno in April. We hope today is part of a continuing cooperative effort on school safety in our Valley.” Merced County Superintendent of Schools Dr. Steve Tietjen agreed that collaboration is key to ensuring that schools, law enforcement and behavioral health agencies are on the same page. “Keeping our students safe is every educator’s top priority,” he said. “Bringing these agencies together in the same room and sharing ideas about school safety is crucial to ensuring our schools are places where students feel safe and welcome.” ###
10.17.2018	Fresno, CA – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) issued the following statement after learning of the passing of Lt. Col. Seth “Jethro” Nehring who was serving in the U.S. Air National Guard’s 144th Fighter Wing, which is based in Fresno: “My heart goes out to the family of Lt. Col. Seth “Jethro” Nehring as well as to the entire 144th Fighter Wing. Lt. Col. Nehring is an American hero. Our servicemembers risk so much to keep us safe at home and abroad. When tragedy strikes like it did this week during Clear Sky 2018 training exercises in Ukraine, we must all take time to reflect on the sacrifices our military men, women, and families make. This is a painful time in our community, and I want to offer my deepest sympathies.” ###
10.05.2018	Fresno, CA – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) issued the following statement regarding the critical need to better support and secure justice for victims and survivors of sexual assault and other crimes: “The past two weeks have been incredibly difficult for our nation as a whole and especially for millions of survivors of sexual violence. The national – and highly personal – testimony of Dr. Christine Blasey Ford to the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee was profound and powerful. Her strength and her story empowered many others to share their truth. Last Friday alone, the Rape, Abuse, and Incest National Network (RAINN) reported a 728 percent increase in calls to its National Sexual Assault Hotline. In the Valley, Rape Counseling Services of Fresno reported a 30 percent increase in calls for assistance. “One of my first actions as a member of Congress was to co-found the bipartisan Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus with Rep. Ted Poe of Texas. Our goals were to ensure that survivors of crime receive the support they need to recover as well as to change the broader understanding and approach towards serving victims and survivors. Although we have made progress, last week demonstrates that we must remain strong, determined, and unwavering in our efforts to secure justice for crime victims and survivors. “We must support sexual assault survivors and the organizations that work around-the-clock to empower them. Our Caucus has led Congress in bipartisan efforts to enact laws that protect and expand programs that assist crime victims and survivors. We have protected the Crime Victims Fund – which is paid for with fines and fees collected from federal offenders, not taxpayers’ dollars – to enhance services for all survivors of crime. Currently, I am working to reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). This legislation provides federal assistance so that every survivor has access to the services to recover and local authorities have training and resources to investigate and prosecute these crimes. “One undeniable truth rising from last week is that we must work to improve our system so survivors are not afraid to report their assault and are not revictimized in the process. Only a small percentage of survivors report a sexual assault to the police, often due to fear of being blamed or not believed. Survivors who report these heinous crimes must have full assurance that they will be treated with respect and that their allegations will be investigated professionally, impartially, and to the full extent of the law. “To that end, I will host a community forum, ‘Giving Voices to Victims and Survivors,’ later this month to bring together crime survivors, Valley experts, victim advocates, law enforcement, and state and national victim/survivor assistance programs so we can continue to collaborate on how to best serve survivors and victims. “The voices of survivors have been, and will continue to be, the very foundation of VAWA. These voices have driven my efforts over the past 14 years to help all victims and survivors of crime in my district and across the nation, and they continue to drive me today. If last week has taught us anything, it is that we must listen to these voices – whether they are publicly speaking before the Senate Judiciary Committee or reaching out for help anonymously – to secure for them the real justice they deserve.” ### The mission of the U.S. Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus is to elevate crime victim issues in Congress in a bipartisan manner without infringing on the rights of the accused and to represent and advocate before the Administration and within the U.S. Congress on behalf of crime victims and survivors. For more on the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus, visit https://vrc-poe.house.gov/home.
10.01.2018	Fresno, CA – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) issued the following statement on the agreement between the United States, Canada, and Mexico on a renegotiated North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA): “We need to modernize NAFTA, and I am pleased to hear we’ve made progress. I will review the details of this agreement closely, paying attention to how it will impact agriculture and other San Joaquin Valley businesses. It is also very important that any final agreement protect and improve labor standards and opportunities for good paying jobs in our country. “For many reasons, it is important that we maintain and improve our relationships with our neighbors. Canada and Mexico combined are the U.S.’s largest trading partners. The Valley economy depends on fair trade and open foreign markets, and I will continue to fight for our Valley as we move forward in finalizing a trade agreement between the U.S., Mexico, and Canada.” ###
09.21.2018	Fresno, CA – Today Valley Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) held a cancer summit at the Clovis Community Medical Center as part of a nationwide collaboration with Vice President Joe Biden and Dr. Jill Biden’s cancer fighting movement. Researching, treating, and finding a cure for cancer have been key priorities for the Valley’s medical community. Community Medical Centers recently opened its Community Cancer Institute where medical professionals have the latest technology for cancer research, cancer treatment, and patient care that strives to keep families close to home during treatment. Valley Children’s Hospital and the Health Sciences Research Institute at UC Merced are also leaders in cancer research and treatment, including helping patients achieve long-term remission. “Cancer touches the lives of almost all of us, and it is imperative that we continue our strong efforts to prevent, fight, and eventually cure cancer once and for all,” said Rep. Costa. “We held this cancer summit today to bring together researchers, medical care providers, and key community leaders. We must launch a coordinated community effort to further energize and transform the fight against cancer in the Valley.” The meeting included an overview of what cancer looks like in the Valley as well as open discussion sessions during which attendees collaborated on ways to improve access to medical care, secure resources for cancer research and improved treatment, and innovate in the collective fight against cancer. One idea that came out of the discussion sessions was to have care providers coordinate care so appointments can be in a single location and all on one day. Jennifer Giese with the American Cancer Society shared, “The absolute largest need and barrier to care that we are seeing is transportation. The second is lodging.” Hopefully these challenges can be alleviated by medical care providers working for such coordination. The meeting attendees also discussed ways to create a system for care providers to share their experiences and best practices for serving patients and their families. Similar community meetings were held across the U.S. today, with the coordinated effort sparked by Vice President Biden and Dr. Jill Biden’s call to redouble efforts to be “the country that cures cancer once and for all.”i Today’s cancer summit in Clovis culminated in a live-streamed address by Vice President Biden from Washington, D.C. [i] Reference to President Barack Obama’s 2016 State of the Union Address, wherein he announces the U.S.’s new effort to cure cancer and that Vice President Joe Biden will lead the effort. ###
09.13.2018	Washington, D.C. – The San Joaquin Valley could see significant increases in water storage capacity due to water resources legislation that passed today in the U.S. House of Representatives with bipartisan and bicameral support. Thanks to the leadership of Valley Congressmen Jim Costa (CA-16) and Jeff Denham (CA-10), America’s Water Infrastructure Act (AWIA) includes provisions that will support local irrigation districts and water agencies in their efforts to raise spillway gates, build new water storage facilities, and repair and expand dams, reservoirs, and other water projects. Specifically, AWIA includes legislation introduced by Rep. Costa and co-led by Denham that will enable Merced Irrigation District to take the first steps forward with a project to raise the spillway gates at New Exchequer Dam. This would enlarge the storage capacity of Lake McClure, increasing water supplies for eastern Merced County up to 57,000 acre-feet. The bill also extends funding for a program that is being used to restore the seismic stability and eventual expansion of the San Luis Reservoir, and it creates a pilot program in the Russian River Basin to develop a system for incorporating weather forecast into reservoir operations. “This legislation creates a pathway for the first new surface water storage in the Valley in decades,” Costa said. “This is a victory for Merced County and the people of the Valley.” Additionally, AWIA includes another provision led by Congressmen Denham and Costa that expands financing options for water storage projects and incentivizes investment in new water storage. For video of Congressman Costa advocating for his measure to allow for improved reservoir operations, including those at Lake McClure, click here: ###
09.12.2018	Fresno, CA – Valley Congressmen Jim Costa (D-CA-16), Jeff Denham (R-CA-10), and Tom McClintock (R-CA-4) continue their fight to protect San Joaquin Valley water from the California State Water Resources Control Board (SWRCB) “Water Grab.” “I will use every option I have to fight the Water Grab,” Costa said. “This is about fighting bad science used to justify taking water from one region of California. This is about the future of the Valley and protecting our way of life.” “Sacramento’s water grab is in violation of federal law,” Denham said. “We will not allow them to take our water; the future of the Valley depends on it.” “The proposal to regularly drain our reservoirs for the sole purpose of dumping water into the ocean is lunacy,” McClintock said. “Common sense will prevail.” This week, the Congressmen sent a joint message to the Acting Administrator for the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), urging him to enforce the requirement in the Clean Water Act that water quality criteria be supported by “rigorous, sound science.” The EPA has notified the Board that the science supporting Phase I of the Water Quality Control Plan for the Bay-Delta (WQCP) is deficient. This is just the latest action by the Valley Congressmen, who have been working in a bipartisan fashion to help protect Valley water. Last month, the members sent a strong message to the Chair of California’s State Water Resources Control Board, Felicia Marcus, stating they would intervene if the Board took action that interfered with water projects or processes managed by the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation, including the Central Valley Project, the New Melones Dam, and the water rights permits for the State Water Project. Last week, the members called on U.S. Speaker of the House Paul Ryan to prioritize a provision in this year’s Department of Interior appropriations bill that will prevent federal dollars from being used to implement the WQCP. Congressmen Denham and Costa spearheaded the provision in the House’s version of the spending bill, which passed the House on July 18th. ###
09.05.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) brought San Joaquin Valley concerns front and center during the Farm Bill Conference Committee’s first meeting, focusing on trade, specialty crops, farming sustainability, dairy, and nutrition programs. Trade is a critical issue for agriculture producers, with California producers earning $21 billion from trade in 2016 alone. “It’s imperative that we expand foreign markets for U.S. products. Forty-four percent of California’s agriculture production is dependent on foreign trade,” noted Costa during today’s meeting. Farm Bill support for producers’ ability to sell their food in foreign markets is especially crucial now, given the negative impacts and longer term uncertainty producers are facing due to the Administration’s escalating trade war. “That is why the language in the Senate bill for the Technical Assistance for Specialty Crops program, I think, is so important,” said Rep. Costa. With regards to specialty crops, California farmers grow over one-third of America’s vegetables and two-thirds of the fruits and nuts produced in the U.S. “California is the nation’s leading producer of fresh fruits and vegetables, which are staples of nutrient-dense and healthy meals. The equitable treatment of specialty crops in the Farm Bill is very important to our nation,” Rep. Costa told the Committee. “I support fully funding the Specialty Crop Research Initiative and to provide separate funding to combat citrus greening.” Costa then noted the importance of funding for organic research and organic certification cost-sharing. Congressman Costa also called on the Committee to make conservation programs which are vital for helping Valley farmers “sustainably farm their land and confront the ever-increasing water demands they face” a priority, including the Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP) and the Regional Conservation Partnership Program (RCPP). In addition, Rep. Costa stated strong support for the provisions in the Senate Farm Bill which increase risk management levels for dairy producers for when markets crash or they are struck by other catastrophes. “We know our dairy industry has suffered across the country. I hope we can retain this provision – and even enhance it – in our final report.” The final issue Costa raised was the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), an anti-hunger program included in the Farm Bill. “Hunger is a real crisis in the San Joaquin Valley,” he told the Committee. “Removing people from SNAP to pay for an unproven workforce training program – as is in the House bill – is the wrong thing to do.” Instead, Costa advocated for continued support for the SNAP education and training pilot programs currently operating in ten states. “They will help us find solutions and pathways to work, as shown in California’s pilot project at the Fresno Bridge Academy.” For video of Congressman Costa remarks at today’s Farm Bill Conference Committee meeting, click here: Rep. Costa has been working for commonsense farm and food policy that addresses the needs of Valley farmers and families for decades, frequently stressing that “America’s ability to grow our own food is a national security issue.” During this Congress, Costa has led legislation in the U.S. House to strengthen the RCPP, support education and work training programs for SNAP recipients, and protect livestock producers from unintended and unnecessary regulatory burden. Significant portions of his RCPP improvement bill have been incorporated into the Senate version of the Farm Bill, and his measure protecting livestock producers became law as a provision in the 2018 omnibus spending bill. Since March, Costa has been leading bipartisan coalitions in their efforts to ensure California agriculture stays competitive as the country navigates through the Administration’s tariff-based approach to addressing trade imbalances. Congressman Costa and his fellow appointees to the Farm Bill Conference Committee must reconcile the differences between the House and Senate versions of the 2018 Farm Bill in order to move the legislation forward. The 2014 Farm Bill, which is currently in effect, is due to expire on September 30th. ###
08.29.2018	Fresno, CA – Yesterday Valley Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) and the California Association of Food Banks brought together community leaders for an anti-hunger workshop. Over 100 thousand individuals suffer from food insecurity in California’s 16th Congressional District alone, according to the most recent USDA data. There are numerous organizations throughout the Valley actively fighting hunger in their communities, with food banks and the support from local, state, and federal government programs all playing pivotal roles in successful anti-hunger efforts. The purpose of yesterday’s workshop was to discuss the realities surrounding food insecurity in the Valley and how to best collaborate and coordinate resources to most effectively combat hunger. The Central California Food Bank – where yesterday’s anti-hunger workshop was held – provides food to more than 220 agencies fighting hunger in Fresno, Madera, Kings, Kern, and Tulare counties. “Every day we see first-hand the devastating effect of hunger in our Valley. With one out of every three children at risk of having to go to sleep hungry, we are committed to doing all that we can to end this hidden epidemic,” said Andy Souza, President/CEO of Central California Food Bank. During the workshop, local leaders voiced concern over how the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) will be affected by this year’s Farm Bill. SNAP is a crucial anti-hunger program, serving roughly 4 million Californians each month, including 25% of the individuals living in California’s 16th Congressional District. “SNAP helps 4 million low-income Californians put food on the table and supports our local economy so that struggling households in the Valley have enough money to buy groceries for their families,” shared Rachel Tucker, Senior Policy Associate at California Association of Food Banks. Dramatic reductions to the number of food-insecure Americans served by SNAP was a key factor in the House rejecting its version of the Farm Bill in May. “Hunger is all too real for far too many in the San Joaquin Valley,” said Congressman Costa. “The most effective way to address challenges in our communities is by local leaders and all levels of government working together and doing their part, which is why I joined with California Food Banks to hold this workshop. We must ensure that the people of the Valley – including children, seniors, and veterans – have food, and I will continue to work with our Valley leaders, anti-hunger organizations, and members of Congress on a bipartisan basis to make sure they do.” As a senior member of the House Agriculture Committee, Rep. Costa has been appointed to the Farm Bill Conference Committee. Costa and his colleagues on the Conference Committee must reconcile the differences between the House and Senate versions of the Farm Bill – including vast differences in the treatment of SNAP – in order to move the legislation forward. The Committee’s first meeting is scheduled for September 5th. ###
08.23.2018	Merced, CA – Today, Donald Heran received the Congressional Gold Medal in Merced for his World War II service to the United States as a pilot with the Office of Strategic Services (OSS), the predecessor to the CIA and the U.S. Special Operations Command. Heran, a retired United States Air Force Lieutenant Colonel, was a member of the OSS 801st/492nd Bombardment Group, known as the “Carpetbaggers.” Beginning January of 1945, Heran piloted secret nighttime missions into Denmark, Norway, and Germany, dropping supplies, equipment, and OSS agents to resistance forces in Nazi-occupied areas. “I am very honored to receive this prestigious Congressional Gold Medal for my World War II Operation Carpetbagger missions and USAF military service,” shared Heran. “I am proud to share this award with my former World War II Carpetbagger crew members, my fellow veterans for their distinguished service, and our brave troops who put their lives on the line for our country every day.” The Congressional Gold Medal is Congress’s highest civilian honor, and was awarded to the OSS and its members in March of this year at a ceremony in Washington, D.C. Heran did not travel to Washington for the ceremony, and Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) awarded the Medal to the Merced hero today. “It is with deep gratitude and respect that I award Lieutenant Colonel Heran the Congressional Gold Medal today,” said Rep. Costa. “His courage, his valor, and his willingness to sacrifice everything for our country make him a true American hero. On behalf of a grateful nation, I can never say thank you enough.” Congressman Costa was joined by Merced County Veterans Service Officer Ricky Pal and Gene Hamill from Merced’s American Legion District 12 in honoring Heran. “Our country is forever indebted to veterans like Mr. Heran for their selfless service,” Pal said of Heran. He continued, “It was truly an honor to be present in such a special moment.” Hamill reflected with, “It’s an honor to be here to present this award to such a distinguished veteran. The American Legion is dedicated to honoring our veterans.” Following WWII, Heran accepted a commission in the United States Air Force in 1949, where he flew for the Strategic Air Command until he retired from the military in 1969. He is a life member of the Castle Air Museum Association, Military Officers of America Association, Order of the Daedalians, and the Eighth Air Force Historical Society. ###
08.14.2018	Fresno, CA – Today, Valley Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) and United States Department of Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue hosted two events with local Valley producers to hear their concerns and explore ways to improve Valley agriculture. Both events included tours of farms and sessions designed for local producers to share their concerns and priorities with the officials. Many issues critical to San Joaquin Valley communities were brought to the attention of the Secretary, including the impacts of tariffs on Valley agriculture producers and the local economy, the need for an accessible agricultural labor force, the need to improve the reliability of Valley water supplies, and the importance of immigration reform to Valley communities. “I want to thank Secretary Perdue for coming to the Valley and hearing from our local farmers. As a third-generation family farmer, I know first-hand how vitally important trade, water, and access to labor are to our Valley’s agricultural system,” said Congressman Costa. “Agriculture is different in every region of the country, and it is important to understand these differences. California exports over 40 percent of its products, and tariffs are already beginning to negatively affect access to foreign markets. No one wins a trade war, and this one will hurt Valley communities and our families. I look forward to working with the Secretary to address these concerns.” Costa continued, “There is no issue more important to the future of the San Joaquin Valley than ensuring reliable water supplies. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues and the Administration in a bipartisan way to bring more water to our Valley.” Congressman Costa has worked on food policy for decades, both in the California state legislature and the U.S. Congress. As a senior member of the House Agriculture Committee, Costa has been appointed to the Farm Bill Conference Committee. The Committee is made up of House members and Senators tasked with reconciling the differences between the two chambers’ versions of the Farm Bill in order to move the policy forward. ###
08.08.2018	Fresno, CA – Today, Valley Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) issued the following statement in response to the retaliatory tariffs China implemented today, thus continuing the escalation of the trade war between China and the United States: “We’re all concerned about addressing imbalanced and unfair trade practices, which has to be our end-game. But we are losing this end-game. These tariffs are hurting the San Joaquin Valley and people across the nation, and it is only getting worse. We must stop this trade war before it reaches a point where it will have long-term damaging effects. Ultimately, we must work together for a resolution between the United States, Canada, Mexico, and our European and Pacific Rim allies for how to most effectively deal with China and other countries to ensure fair and balanced trade.” Congressman Costa has been a leading advocate for ensuring that California agriculture stays competitive in the midst of the Administration’s tariff-based approach to addressing trade imbalances. Rep. Costa immediately warned of the trade war and consequences that would likely result from the tariffs since the Administration signed its initial tariffs on steel and aluminum in March, noting that “California agriculture will likely feel the most intense and direct pain from these tariffs. California farmers and ranchers earned about $21 billion from trade in 2016, which was roughly 44 percent of their total revenue.” Since then, Costa has pressed the Administration to take a more strategic and long-term approach to trade as well as urged his colleagues to come together and reassert Congress’s constitutional authority and responsibility in U.S. trade agreements. In May he led fellow California House members in a united bipartisan message calling on United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer to address unfair or unbalanced trade practices “through aligned efforts with our allies across the globe and abandon the current back and forth retaliation that will ultimately impact both rural and urban businesses in California and across the nation.” Just last week, Rep. Costa again led a bipartisan coalition message to the Administration. The coalition – led by Costa and Rep. Jeff Denham (CA-10) – called on U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue to work with members of Congress and specialty crop producers to ensure the producers receive mitigation dollars equal to the damage the specialty crop industry is already feeling from the retaliatory tariffs. ###
07.25.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Valley Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) and his fellow members of the House Problem Solvers Caucus unveiled their proposal to make Congress work better for the American people. Adeptly titled, “Break the Gridlock,” the plan calls for specific changes to the House rules that will reward openness and transparency, encourage a willingness to reach across the aisle, create debate on divisive issues, and empower lawmakers to find real solutions concerning the nation’s most pressing matters. Rep. Costa said about the reform package, “The majority of Americans have made their views clear: It is time to fix this broken Congress. We in the Problem Solvers could not agree more, which is why we came together to propose this package of House reforms. It is a significant and serious step aimed at ensuring that the House is more bipartisan, less gridlocked, and more representative of the American people.” The package includes – among others – proposals to give fast-tracked and priority consideration to bipartisan legislation. The Problem Solvers Caucus is a bipartisan group of representatives working to find a path forward for responsible governance. The Caucus proposed a health care compromise to stabilize the individual marketplace, an agreement on our nation’s DREAMERs and border security, and recommendations for a bipartisan infrastructure package during this Congress. The Problem Solvers Caucus plans to work with other caucuses and coalitions in the House to collaborate and help build consensus around House rules changes for the next Congress. The full “Break the Gridlock” package can be found here. ###
07.12.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed important legislation for water districts in California’s San Joaquin Valley and throughout the country, H.R. 3281, the Reclamation Title Transfer and Non-Federal Infrastructure Incentivization Act. This legislation, if enacted, would make it easier for local water districts to own their water projects, once debt on the project is fully repaid to the federal government. Led by Valley Congressman Jim Costa (D-CA-16) and Rep. Doug Lamborn (R-CO-5), the legislation aims to both make it easier to repair and update water projects as well as allow these dams and other water facilities to be operated more efficiently and more in-line with local water realities. “This is not a new idea, and is part of government reform that was initiated in the 1990s by the Clinton Administration to reinvent government,” said Rep. Costa. “This would save money and provide much needed funding for rehabilitating aging water projects, like the Friant-Kern Canal. I am pleased to see this legislation pass the House, and urge the Senate to follow our lead.” The Friant Water Authority operates and maintains one of these water projects, the 152-mile-long Friant-Kern Canal which serves more than 1 million acres on the eastside of the San Joaquin Valley. “The Authority is exploring whether taking ownership of the canal and related distribution works would benefit water users in the Friant Division. But Reclamation’s current title transfer process is lengthy, overly complex, and costly for the non-Federal parties,” said Jason Philips, the Authority’s CEO. “H.R. 3281 would provide an incentive for the Authority and similar agencies to weigh the potential benefits and drawbacks of title transfer and to actively engage Reclamation in discussions that could produce benefits for water users and the Federal government alike.” Rep. Costa, Democratic lead on the bill, called on his House colleagues to support the bill before it passed in the House by a vote of 233 to 184. For video of Congressman Costa’s speech, click here: Congressman Costa is working every day with local water districts to improve the Valley’s water supply. ###
06.27.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Valley Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) again joined a majority of the House of Representatives in rejecting the second of two failed immigration bills that have been described by both Republican and Democratic leaders and non-governmental organizations across the United States as “partisan,” “costly,” “short-sighted,” and “anti-American.” Today’s failure of H.R. 6136, more commonly referred to as “the Ryan Bill,” comes on the heels of the House rejecting H.R. 4760, or “the Goodlatte Bill,” last Thursday. Both bills include provisions that would have made it more difficult for immigrants to legally seek asylum and authorized federal funds to build a border wall in exchange for a limited path to legalization for DREAMers. The Ryan Bill also includes provisions that would have allowed for immigrant families to be detained indefinitely, while the Goodlatte Bill would have displaced current farm workers with the creation of a new guest worker program. Rep. Costa called on the House to reject both bills last week, stating “Our immigration system is broken, and everybody knows that… Why don’t we try sitting down and working together on real, bipartisan reform? This is a partisan proposal that holds DREAMers and vulnerable children hostage, and does nothing for California farm workers. What’s worse, it builds a $25 billion wall that by itself does not provide comprehensive solutions for our border security, which we all believe in… I urge my colleagues to do the right thing: Vote NO. Let’s get back to working on bipartisan reform, reform that provides us with the border security we need, fixes our immigration system, and respects the dignity and humanity of aspiring Americans.” For video of Congressman Costa’s floor speech, click here. Congressman Costa has been advocating for bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform for years. More recently, Costa joined DREAMers, other members of Congress, and groups from the Value Our Families coalition earlier this month to call for strong opposition to the provisions in the Goodlatte Bill that would keep families apart. He also joined his fellow members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) on June 13th for a Special Order calling for the end of the Administration’s then-policy of separating immigrant children from their parents at the border. Last week, Congressman Costa went on a fact-finding mission with his fellow CHC members to multiple immigration detention facilities to see first-hand the effects of the Administration’s family separation immigration policy. Rep. Costa at border facility in Southern California on June 18, 2018 After both immigration bills failed in the House, Rep. Costa shared, “Today shows, yet again, what happens when you try to cram through Congress partisan, short-sighted, and narrowly-serving legislation: You fail. I hope House leadership finally learns this lesson and starts supporting our bipartisan and serious efforts in the House to pass the real immigration reform our country needs. This is the only way we will be able to fix our broken immigration system and make it fair, efficient, and effective.” ###
06.21.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after the House of Representative passed H.R. 2, more commonly known as the Farm Bill, with a razor-thin margin vote of 213 to 211: “The partisan Farm Bill the House passed today abandons some of the most vulnerable people in our Valley. At the same time, it fails to build on the farm policies in previous Farm Bills that have successfully supported California producers. As I said when I voted against this exact same bill last month, it simply fails our farmers and our families. Worst of all, while the House advanced a bad Farm Bill today, it has failed to address the two largest issues currently facing California agriculture: ensuring a stable agricultural workforce and dealing with the President’s unnecessary and harmful trade war. “While I do not support the Farm Bill the House passed, I am hopeful that the action taken today will bring us one step closer to conferencing with the U.S. Senate. I look forward to getting back to work on a bipartisan Farm Bill that serves farmers, feeds Americans, and provides our nation with food security.” ###
06.14.2018	Washington, D.C. – As it looks increasingly likely that the House will consider some type of immigration bill in the coming weeks, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) continues to actively work for fair, commonsense, and effective immigration policy. Yesterday, Rep. Costa joined DREAMers, other members of Congress, and advocates from United We Dream, Asian Americans Advancing Social Justice, and additional organizations from the Value Our Families coalition to call for strong opposition to immigration legislation that keeps families apart. At a press conference outside the Capitol, the group expressed distain for the current version of H.R. 4760, commonly referred to as the Goodlatte Bill. “In its current form, this bill has many problems, from how it treats agricultural workers to how it attacks family immigration,” said Costa. “But, I’m not just going to talk about what I am against. I am here today to stand with our DREAMers and families. They deserve better than a life of fear… That is why I support the DREAM Act.” Congressman Costa again stood with immigrant families later Wednesday evening. He joined Rep. Lou Correa (CA-46) and other fellow members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to call for an end to the Administration’s current policy of separating families at the southern U.S. border. “This is an outrageous policy. I think it’s morally disgusting and unamerican. We are not a nation – in terms of our shared values – that tears families apart… No one disputes that we need to secure our borders. We must ensure the safety of our nation… But ripping these families apart like this is not securing our borders.” Congressman Costa has a long history of advocating for bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform. “For over a decade I have been calling for bipartisan and comprehensive reform to fix our broken immigration system,” said Rep. Costa. “Look at where we are today: We have over a million DREAMers living in fear. We are ripping families apart and detaining children. We are denying victims of horrendous violence refuge. In America, we are doing this. This is outrageous and Congress needs to do its job. For too long, our nation’s immigration policy has been the result of slapping together short-term, narrow-sighted, and often contradictory policies. We must come together – Democrats and Republicans – and find a bipartisan, long-term solution that makes our immigration system fair and functional.” In just the past couple of months, Congressman Costa has led the CHC in writing to ICE about worksite enforcement, signed the discharge petition to force House consideration of four immigration bills, and cosponsored legislation to protect immigrant victims of domestic violence. He has been working to secure permanent legislative protections for DREAMers since the Trump Administration announced it would terminate the program in September of last year, including cosponsoring the Dream Act and continually calling for its immediate consideration on the House floor. Rep. Costa plans on going to the U.S.-Mexico border with his fellow members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus during their upcoming fact-finding trip. For video of Congressman Costa’s floor speech from Wednesday, click here: ###
06.07.2018	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a significant piece of water infrastructure legislation – H.R. 8, the Water Resources Development Act – by a vote of 408 to 2. Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) worked on a bipartisan basis to improve the legislation by including one provision that would increase water supply reliability in California’s San Joaquin Valley and another provision that could reduce permit compliance costs for utility ratepayers. Rep. Costa’s first amendment incorporates into the Water Resources Development Act a bipartisan measure Costa has been leading in the House. The legislation would resolve a legal technicality that makes it more difficult to improve the structure and operations of water reservoirs than current law intends. This would have a real impact in the Valley, as it would allow Merced Irrigation District to move forward with a project to raise the spillway gates at New Exchequer Dam. When completed, this project will increase water supplies for eastern Merced County by 57,000 acre-feet during some years. The second amendment Congressman Costa helped lead would make permanent a budget-neutral solution that has been successfully helping the Army Corps of Engineers work through its backlog of project permitting. Currently, the Corps has the authority to allow utility companies to pay for additional staffing to help the Corps complete its review process on the utility’s project. The amendment, which Rep. Costa cosponsored with fellow Valley Congressman Jeff Denham (CA-10), eliminates the expiration date on the Corps’s authority to accept such staffing support when offered. Accordingly, the Corps can continue to choose this option as a way to complete project reviews more quickly without reducing the quality or thoroughness of the review. Costa described both amendments as “straightforward, commonsense solutions that address our daily water realities and infrastructure needs in the Valley and across California.” For video of Congressman Costa calling on his colleagues to support his first amendment, which would improve reservoir operations at Lake McClure and across the U.S., click here: For more on the Non-Federal Reservoir Operations Improvement Act, the bipartisan legislation Rep. Costa incorporation into H.R. 8 with his first amendment, click here. ###
06.01.2018	Merced, CA – In his continued efforts to increase access to affordable, safe, and secure housing in the San Joaquin Valley, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) hosted a housing roundtable today to bring together key leaders to collaborate on making homeownership an affordable option in Merced County. U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Regional Administrator Jimmy Stracner, additional regional HUD officials, and nearly 20 housing leaders and local officials participated in the roundtable, which also marked this year’s launch of National Homeownership Month. Merced County’s homeownership statistics fall well below the national average. According to 2016 Census data, the homeownership rate in Merced County is 52.2%, compared to 63.5% nationally. “Homeownership is the foundation for a strong middle class in America,” said Rep. Jim Costa, who has long worked to make homeownership affordable in the Valley. “The single largest investment that the average American family makes in a lifetime is the purchase of a home. The values of pride of property, understanding the complexity of financing a home, and living in a house where families can flourish are all made possible by homeownership. The purpose of today’s roundtable was to have local and federal leaders sit down together and consider ways to provide more opportunities for homeownership in Merced County.” During the roundtable, HUD officials discussed the federal agencies and programs specifically aimed at helping Americans buy and maintain safe and secure housing. These include the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) and a nationwide network of nearly 2,100 housing counseling agencies certified by the Office of Housing Counseling (OHC). More than 1.2 million people turned to the FHA for home financing last year alone, while the education and support provided by housing counselors reduce the likelihood homeowners at risk of default end up facing foreclosure by 30%. “We at HUD are determined to sustain a housing market that is honest and fair for every hard working American,” said HUD Regional Administrator Jimmy Stracner. “Today, we renew our commitment to all responsible future homeowners that seek their share of the American dream.” “Homeownership is such an integral part of the American dream and experience. We need to explore and take all creative steps necessary to best position our Valley’s residents so that everyone within our region has the opportunity to sustainably own a home,” stated Mark Hendrickson, Director of Community & Economic Development for Merced County. Kim Rogina, President of the Merced County Association of Realtors, was one of the local housing leaders who attended today’s roundtable. She shared, “The Merced County Association of Realtors supports and encourages the American dream of homeownership. We are a hardworking community that strives for an affordable and abundant supply of homes for our citizens. Our Association’s Charitable Foundation just received a grant of $25,000 from the California Association of Realtors to aid first time home buyer’s with down payment assistance. We are in the process of fundraising to match that amount. The quality of our community depends on the opportunities afforded individuals and families. Congressman Costa hopes today is just the beginning of this collaborative effort. He reflected on today’s roundtable with, “We have had bipartisan policies for almost 100 years to encourage and make affordable homeownership. I strongly believe this is how we create healthy communities and a lasting middle class.” ###
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Roy Blunt (Mo.) and Chris Coons (Del.), co-chairs of the Senate Law Enforcement Caucus, and U.S. Representatives Ted Poe (Texas) and Jim Costa (Calif.), co-founders and co-chairs of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus, today introduced bipartisan legislation to reauthorize the Victims of Child Abuse Act (VOCAA). The VOCAA provides funding for Children’s Advocacy Centers that serve child victims and help law enforcement hold perpetrators accountable. Blunt, Coons, Poe, and Costa introduced similar legislation, which was signed into law in 2014, to reauthorize the Victims of Child Abuse Program through 2018. “In 2017, our state’s 22 child advocacy centers provided a safe haven to more than 8,500 of Missouri’s most vulnerable children,” said Blunt. “This bipartisan bill will ensure Child Advocacy Centers and law enforcement have the resources they need to coordinate the investigation, treatment, and prosecution of child abuse cases. I urge my colleagues to support the vital role these centers play in keeping kids safe and holding abusers accountable by passing this bipartisan commonsense bill.” “When a child is the victim of physical or sexual abuse, his or her life will never be the same,” said Coons. “Seeking justice should be a part of the healing process – not a source of further trauma. Children’s Advocacy Centers provide a safe, supportive space for young victims and help law enforcement officers bring perpetrators to justice faster, more effectively, and at a lower cost. These facilities are a critical asset to law enforcement, to our criminal justice system, and, most importantly, to the children in our community who have been the victims of truly horrific crimes. I thank my colleagues for working with me to ensure they can continue to serve children in need.” “Each year thousands of children are subjected to an unthinkable crime- child abuse,” said Poe. “Our Children Advocacy Centers, like the one in Houston, Texas, do important work to expedite the prosecution of offenders, reduce violent encounters, and improve safety in communities across the country. This legislation ensures that those who are advocating for and protecting our children from the atrocities of abuse have the necessary resources to do their job. We must do all that we can to make sure innocent young Americans are protected from evildoers who wish to do them harm.” “The Children Advocacy Centers in the San Joaquin Valley have been crucial in helping victims and survivors of child abuse heal,” said Costa. “The Victims of Child Abuse Act reauthorization bill builds on the demonstrated success of the multi-disciplinary Child Advocacy Center model, which will hopefully allow us to serve even more child abuse victims. Victims and survivors of child abuse are some of the most vulnerable in society. All of these kids deserve our care and support as they begin to heal.” Children’s Advocacy Centers employ a multi-disciplinary team of trained professionals to conduct forensic interviews of children who have been victims of abuse. These interviews are designed to be admissible in court while also preventing children from being re-traumatized by having to tell their accounts multiple times. Use of Children’s Advocacy Centers leads to faster criminal charging decisions in sexual abuse cases, increased felony prosecutions of child sexual abuse, and lower average per-case costs. In addition to Blunt and Coons, original Senate cosponsors include U.S. Senators Todd Young (Ind.), Shelley Moore Capito (W. Va.), Richard Burr (N.C.), Mike Rounds (S.D.), Deb Fischer (Neb.), Amy Klobuchar (Minn.), Bob Casey (Pa.), and Mazie Hirono (Hawaii). And, in addition to Poe and Costa, original House cosponsors include Brian Fitzpatrick (Pa.), Bruce Poliquin (Maine), Anthony Brown (Md.), Eric Swalwell (Calif.), Luke Messer (Ind.), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (Fla.), Ann Kuster (N.H.), Steve Cohen (Tenn.), Pramila Jayapal (Wash.), Ann Wagner (Mo.), Theodore Deutch (Fla.), and Debbie Dingell (Mich.). The bill has garnered widespread support from the nation’s top advocacy groups: “As the national association and accrediting body for Children’s Advocacy Centers (CACs), National Children’s Alliance not only thanks Senator Blunt, Senator Coons, Representative Ted Poe, and Representative Jim Costa for their leadership in introducing the Victims of Child Abuse Act Reauthorization Act of 2018, but also in leading the charge for CACs on Capitol Hill,” said Teresa Huizar, Executive Director, National Children’s Alliance. “This critical piece of legislation is the corner stone of the CAC movement, and is the only federal program solely dedicated to developing CACs and improving the services provided to kids that have been abused. By reauthorizing and updating the Act, Congress once again demonstrates it believes and values the effectiveness of the CAC model in helping abused children. We are proud to join Senator Blunt, Senator Coons, Representative Poe, and Representative Costa in championing this bill and urge its swift passage.” “While many efforts have improved children’s lives here in the United States, child abuse and neglect including the sexual abuse of children is still a national issue where more can and should be done,” said David LaBahn, President, National Association of Prosecuting Attorneys (APA). “On behalf of APA, we applaud Senators Blunt and Coons and Representatives Poe and Costa for their willingness to introduce legislation to re-authorize the Victims of Child Abuse (VOCA) act with additional funding and objectives which will assist our front-line prosecutors in holding those who choose to harm children accountable for their actions.” “The Victims of Child Abuse Act funds and supports Children’s Advocacy Centers, which are child-focused programs that employ a multidisciplinary team of trained professionals to work together efficiently and effectively to investigate, prosecute and treat child abuse,” said Bill Johnson, Executive Director, National Association of Police Organizations. “Children’s Advocacy Centers are vital to the protection and safety of abused children and are an important resource for law enforcement to ensure the perpetrators of these horrific crimes are held accountable and face justice. The Victims of Child Abuse Act Reauthorization Act protects and enhances access to Children’s Advocacy Centers for children across the country and NAPO thanks Senators Roy Blunt and Chris Coons and Representatives Ted Poe and Jim Costa for their leadership in safeguarding these important programs.” “On behalf of more than 3,000 elected sheriffs nationwide, NSA is proud to support the Victims of Child Abuse Act Reauthorization Act of 2018,” said Jonathan Thompson, Executive Director, National Sheriffs' Association. “This impactful legislation works in collaboration with our local law enforcement in order to better protect and secure our nation’s youth by providing funding for Children’s Advocacy Centers, which are invaluable in preventing more abuse and helping victims keep their privacy and dignity.” “The Children’s Advocacy Centers funded by the Victims of Child Abuse Act provide a safe environment to interview children who have been victimize by an abuser,” Chuck Canterbury, National President, Fraternal Order of Police. “The program helps law enforcement collect evidence without causing these children any additional trauma. These Centers have a proven track record of success, enabling our officers to better protect our children.” “The National District Attorneys Association applauds the introduction of the Victims of Child Abuse Act Reauthorization Act and the leadership of Senator Blunt, Senator Coons, Representative Poe, and Representative Costa on the issue,” said Nelson O. Bunn, Jr., Executive Director, National District Attorneys Association. “The reauthorization will continue to ensure resources are available for Children’s Advocacy Centers in support of the multidisciplinary team (MDT) model in which prosecutors and other practitioners are able to interview and support victims of child abuse in a safe environment. The legislation also provides for critical training and technical assistance to prosecutors in the field to investigate and prosecute these horrific cases.” The bill is also backed by the Major County Sheriffs’ Association, the North East Regional Children’s Advocacy Center, the Midwest Regional Children’s Advocacy Center, the Western Regional Children’s Advocacy Center, and the Sergeants Benevolent Association. ###
05.22.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) voted to increase opportunities for San Joaquin Valley residents to access responsible banking and home loans when supporting S. 2155, the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act. The legislation makes changes to law currently regulating credit unions, community banks, and small lenders, including key financial institutions serving the Central Valley. Central Valley Community Bank, United Security Bank, and credit unions like Travis, Educational ECU, Golden 1, and Valley First are just some of the Valley’s financial institutions which would be positively impacted by the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act. These types of smaller, community-based lenders serve as pillars of financial services in rural and less-populated communities like the San Joaquin Valley, and they currently provide over 60 percent of small business loans and 80 percent of agricultural loans throughout the United States. Provisions in the legislation would help these institutions responsibly increase their available loan funds and incentivize lenders to create mortgage agreements that are better for the borrower and the institution alike. “Our Valley was hit hard and is still recovering from the 2008 financial crisis. In order to continue the economic recovery, consumers and businesses need access to fair and responsible loans from community banks and credit unions – which are the backbone of financial services in the San Joaquin Valley. This legislation maintains the strong consumer protections against predatory lending practices in the Dodd-Frank banking reform. It also relieves community banks and smaller lenders from unnecessary requirements that reduce their ability to finance loans. That’s what this bill is about: using narrow and targeted reforms to increase the ability of small lenders and credit unions to provide loans to our small businesses, farms and dairies, and home owners,” said Rep. Jim Costa, who voted in favor of S. 2155 today.​ The Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act will also support home ownership in rural communities across the Valley. As Gary Quisenberry, Executive Vice President at Central Valley Community Bank, explains, “The reforms in the bill that address home ownership – for example mortgage loans, escrow accounts, loan data, and appraisals – would be especially beneficial for home ownership, particularly in the rural areas of the Valley.” The changes the legislation makes to real estate loans would generate over $163 million for new residential lending in California alone, while allowing borrowers the ability to adjust or request changes to their mortgage, should another financial crisis hit. Jeremy Empol, Vice President of Federal Government Affairs for the California Credit Union League, thanked Congressman Costa and other members of Congress who helped pass the legislation through both chambers of Congress with, “The Credit Unions of California thank Congressman Costa and the bipartisan coalition that supported S. 2155. Through this bipartisan process, that was done by the book, Congress has provided common sense regulation for credit unions and other community lenders that will ease regulatory burdens, allowing us to make lending more affordable for rural communities, small businesses, and low-income borrowers. Credit unions appreciate the unity and pragmatism of this bipartisan package for the 160,000 members in California’s 16th Congressional District and the 11.6 million members in California.” The Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act passed in the House of Representatives today by a vote of 258 to 159, and will be sent to the President to sign into law. ###
05.18.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after the House of Representatives rejected H.R. 2 – commonly referred to as the Farm Bill – by a vote of 198 to 213: “The Farm Bill the House rejected today is a clear example of what happens when Republicans and Democrats fail to work together: bad policy that serves too few Americans. Today’s vote makes clear that the Farm Bill is too big and too important to pass in the House using partisan arm-twisting. This bill could not get enough support in the House because it simply fails to serve our nation’s food needs. It does not do enough to support our food system or our food security. “American agriculture needs a Farm Bill that promotes trade, adequately supports dairy producers, and assists specialty crop farmers. Our nation needs a Farm Bill that feeds Americans, ensures our food producers can be successful, and supports our food security and food safety net. Sadly, the Farm Bill we voted on today not only fails to meet these basic tests, but it also increases food insecurity and further divides our country along both partisan and regional lines. “My vote against this version of the Farm Bill was a vote to return to the bipartisan, deliberative policy process that has historically resulted in successful farm and nutrition programs – programs that advance the interests of all Americans. It was a vote demanding fair support for our San Joaquin Valley farmers and families. It was a vote for a good Farm Bill, one that actually serves our food producers, feeds Americans, and provides our nation with food security. The Senate is currently working on such a bipartisan, solution-oriented bill, and I hope we take up this serious piece of legislation and get back to work on America’s food bill soon.” ###
05.16.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) again crossed party lines in the House Natural Resources Committee to support two bills that could dramatically improve the reliability and quantity of Valley water supplies. The first bill – introduced by Representatives Ken Calvert (CA-42) and Costa (CA-16) – aims to bring all Endangered Species Act regulation of species that have a portion of their lifecycle in the ocean, like salmon, under a single regulating government agency. By doing so, H.R. 3916, aptly named the FISH Act, would eliminate the redundant and often conflicting requirements that commonly result from multiple agencies regulating water resources for the restoration of a single species without taking other factors, including water resources or other species, into account. Shasta Dam fell victim to such contradictory requirements in 2016, when the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service considered requiring water be released from the Dam to supplement flows for Delta smelt, while the National Marine Fisheries Service was mandating that same water be held behind Shasta Dam to provide additional cold water for salmon rearing. Costa called this contradiction “absurd” before noting that regulation by a single agency “would make much more common sense” and that “San Joaquin Valley water agencies, the Metropolitan Water District and the Association of California Water Agencies support this.” Congressman Jim Costa also advocated for support of H.R. 4419, a bill introduced by Rep. Dan Newhouse (WA-4) which would streamline the process for creating or expanding water projects by the Bureaus of Reclamation and Indian Affairs. This legislation would dramatically reduce the amount of time it takes to complete such water projects by limiting the project review phase to three years and a cost of $3 million dollars. This includes the expansion of Shasta Dam, which has been stuck in the “feasibility study” step of the process since 2010. It would also apply to feasibility studies for Temperance Flat Dam and a raise of San Luis Reservoir. “Eight years of delay in completing storage facility studies is simply inconsistent with the challenges facing California today,” stated Rep. Costa, directly speaking to the expansion of Shasta Dam. “This legislation would address this and provide Congressional methodology to more rapidly construct the needed water storage in California, and across the nation. If we can’t do it in the fifth largest economy in the world – and manage our water supply – god help the rest of the planet.” ###
05.09.2018	Washington, D.C. – In their ongoing work to improve access to safe and reliable water, Congressmen Jim Costa (D-CA-16), Jeff Denham (R-CA-10), John Garamendi (D-CA-3), and Tom McClintock (R-CA-4) introduced H.R 5726, the Non-Federal Reservoir Operations Improvement Act, in the House of Representatives today. If enacted, the bipartisan legislation would resolve a technicality that impedes structural and operational improvements of water reservoirs and prevents reservoirs from functioning as efficiently as possible. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers regulates the flood-control operations of many federal and non-federal reservoirs, guided by criteria set down in a “Water Control Manual” for each project. Up-to-date manuals, guidelines, and flood-control information help improve the efficiency of reservoir operation, creating more useable water. However, these manuals are often not reviewed and updated for decades by the Corps, who cite budget constraints. While current law allows the Corps to accept non-federal funds to review and update this information for Corps-owned reservoirs, it cannot accept similar funds for reservoirs not owned by the Corps, such as those owned by states, counties, or irrigation districts. This effectually prevents dam owners, like Merced Irrigation District, from raising the spillway gates at New Exchequer Dam, because the project requires that the Corps update the flood control manual for Lake McClure. The Non-Federal Reservoir Operations Improvement Act fixes this issue by allowing the Corps to accept non-federal funding to review and update operational documents and flood information for non-federal, locally-owned projects. “This bill is a straightforward solution to a senseless problem that blocks improved water supply in the San Joaquin Valley, and in communities across the United States,” said Rep. Costa, lead sponsor on the bill. “Merced Irrigation District has been trying to raise the spillway gates at New Exchequer Dam to increase the carryover storage capacity of Lake McClure for years, but cannot move forward without updated operations guidelines and flood information. This project, when complete, will increase water supplies for eastern Merced County by 57,000 acre-feet during some years, and every additional acre-foot of water is vital to the future of our community. Merced Irrigation District is willing to pay to update the information and move the project forward, but the Army Corps of Engineers, which regulates Exchequer, indicated that the law prohibits it from accepting these non-federal funds. This is absurd, and I introduced the Non-Federal Reservoir Operations Improvement Act to remove this ridiculous obstacle from hindering progress in securing water for our Valley.” “We must address California’s lack of storage,” shared Rep. Denham, lead Republican on the legislation. “In the Valley, we’ve seen water tables dry up, community water systems completely empty, and the economic viability of some towns completely dried up as well. We must move this issue forward.” Rep. Garamendi, an original cosponsor on the bill, stated, “Water is one of California’s most scarce and precious resources, but can also do incredible damage. By removing bureaucracy and making it easier for the Corps to update its operations manuals and flood control guidelines using modern data, this bill will increase water supply availability while also providing better flood protection for communities downstream of dams.” “Droughts are nature’s fault. Water shortages are OUR fault,” said Rep. McClintock, who is also an original cosponsor on the legislation. “This bill is an important step in reforming the bureaucratic mess that has made it all but impossible to manage our crucial water supplies. After our local water agencies have spent years trying to satisfy one bureaucracy, another suddenly pops up to claim jurisdiction with an entirely new set of demands in an often endless permitting process. This bill will cut through the red tape and allow us to store more water from wet years so that we will have it in dry ones.” The Non-Federal Reservoir Operations Improvement Act was included as a provision in the Senate’s current version of the America’s Water Infrastructure Act, indicating support for the measure in the Senate. ###
05.07.2018	Washington, D.C. – In his ongoing efforts to fight for California agriculture, today Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) led other California members of the U.S. House of Representatives in calling on the Administration to replace its tariffs with a “strategic,” allied approach for addressing unfair or unbalanced trade practices. The message, sent to United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer, expresses deep concern regarding the $3 billion worth of retaliatory tariffs China has imposed on more than 80 agriculture products since President Trump raised tariffs on steel and aluminum imports on March 8th. “In 2017 alone, California exported approximately $28.5 billion in products to China,” the letter states. After acknowledging that deceptive or unbalanced trade practices must be addressed, the letter continues with, “The currently proposed tariffs will not effectively advance our shared goal of changing China’s harmful practices” and calls on the Administration “to address these fundamental challenges through aligned efforts with our allies across the globe and abandon the current back and forth retaliation that will ultimately impact both rural and urban businesses in California and across the nation.” Rep. Costa has been urging the Administration to rethink its approach to trade since the Administration’s plans to raise steel and aluminum tariffs became public in early March. Costa warned the House of Representatives in March that California agriculture would “likely feel the most intense and direct pain from these tariffs. California farmers and ranchers earned roughly 44% of their total revenue from international trade in 2016. But this pain will radiate across the country.” Congressman Costa was joined today in sending the letter to Lighthizer by lead Republican, Representative David G. Valadao (CA-21), and Representatives Jeff Denham (CA-10), Julia Brownley (CA-26), Steve Knight (CA-25), Salud O. Carbajal (CA-24), Jimmy Panetta (CA-20), and John Garamendi (CA-03). The full text of the letter can be found here. A video of Congressman Costa’s speech in the U.S. House of Representatives can be found here. ###
05.05.2018	Fresno, CA – Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) honored Fresno County high school students who participated in the 2018 Congressional Art Competition with an awards ceremony Friday evening at the Fresno Arts Council. More than 50 pieces of art were submitted to the district-wide competition, with high school students from Fresno County submitting 24 pieces total. Fresno students’ work was judged by local artists and members of the Fresno arts community. Rep. Costa honored all student entrants individually during Friday’s ceremony before awarding this year’s first and third place winners. “It is vital that we engage in creative and innovative thinking, which is why I seize the opportunity to host the Congressional Art Competition in our Valley every year,” said Costa. “Looking around this room – at these remarkable students and their moving works – I am proud of each and every one of these young people, for what they have created here and for sharing it with our community.” Congressman Costa announced Anna Titteringten as this year's third place winner and Emilie Haskell as this year's first place winner. Anna attends Edison High School, and her third place piece is an oil on canvas work entitled “Tiny Tears.” Emilie also attends Edison High School, and her grand-prize-winning work is an acrylic on Masonite board piece entitled “Serene.” This year’s second place winner is Lylah Carranza from Los Banos High School. Lylah was announced as the second place winner at the awards ceremony honoring Merced County students, which was held Wednesday, May 2nd at the Merced Multicultural Arts Center. Her prize-winning work is a colored pencil piece entitled “Hidden.” Emilie’s “Serene” will be sent to Washington, D.C. in June, where it will hang on display with other first place pieces from across the country to be viewed by the millions who visit the Capitol each year. All first place winners, including Emilie, are also invited to the Capitol to attend the opening of the display exhibiting the 2018 winning works and the congressional reception celebrating the student winners. Lylah’s “Hidden” and Anna’s “Tiny Tears” will be displayed in Congressman Costa’s district offices. For more on Wednesday evening’s Merced County awards ceremony, click here. ###
05.03.2018	Fresno, CA — Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) visited Charlie Keyan Armenian Community School in Clovis where he met with students and faculty and spoke to students about the importance of community engagement and his time serving in Congress. In addition, Rep. Costa heard directly from students about some of the programs and opportunities unique to Charlie Keyan Armenian Community School, the only Armenian school in the state of California from San Francisco to Los Angeles. Costa’s visit also featured components of Armenian culture, including sharing in a Mezza Table and student performances of traditional Armenian dances. “One of the great things about our San Joaquin Valley is its diversity and the interweaving of all of its rich cultures,” said Rep. Costa. “Charlie Keyan Armenian Community School – in addition to providing students with a high-quality education – celebrates and engages students in the vibrant Armenian culture that plays a significant role in our Valley home. It was an honor to meet with these remarkable students and dedicated educators today.” Curtis Shamlin, Principal of Charlie Keyan Armenian Community School, shared, “We truly appreciate the words Congressman Costa shared with us. We thank him for his service to our country and his continued recognition of our Armenian community.” Charlie Keyan Armenian Community School focuses its educational courses and extra-curricular programs on academic excellence and the development of a rich appreciation of Armenian culture. To do so, the school broadly promotes technology and scientific advancements, visual and performing arts, and Armenian language, cooking, dance, and other Armenian culturally-significant areas. ###
05.02.2018	Merced, CA – Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) and the Merced County Arts Council honored Merced high school students who participated in the 2018 Congressional Art Competition Wednesday evening with an awards ceremony at the Merced Multicultural Arts Center. More than 50 pieces of art were submitted to the district-wide competition, with high school students from across Merced County submitting 28 pieces total. The Merced students’ work was judged by local artists and members of the Merced Arts Council, which has partnered with Rep. Costa for the annual art competition for years. The Merced Arts Council works to inspire and support the arts and artists in Merced County in part through programs at the Merced Multicultural Arts Center, which include arts education and training, world-class performances, and art exhibits showcasing works of local, regional, and national importance. “The Congressional Art Competition is a great way to recognize our young artists in Merced County. We have an abundance of young talent here, and it's important to acknowledge and encourage these young artists to continue expressing themselves through their art,” shared Colton Dennis, Executive Director of the Merced County Arts Council and Multicultural Arts Center. Costa announced Lylah Carranza as this year's second place winner during tonight's Merced awards ceremony. Lylah attends Los Banos High School, and her winning colored pencil piece is entitled “Hidden.” Congressman Costa honored all student entrants individually during this evening’s awards ceremony, noting the importance of engagement with the arts for both personal and community development. “Creativity, innovation, and original thinking are key for good art, but also for strong character and strong communities,” said Costa. “The Congressional Art Competition encourages our young people to exercise their artistic talent and to strengthen their creative mind, which we see in the remarkable and thought-provoking art our students produce. I am proud of our students and honored to host this competition each year.” This year’s first and third place winners will be officially announced at the awards ceremony honoring Fresno and Madera County student participants held at the Fresno Arts Council on Friday. The annual Congressional Art Competition – which Rep. Costa hosts in his district every year – honors thousands of high school students across the United States for their creativity, ingenuity, and artistic talent. First place winners from each congressional district will have their pieces sent to Washington, D.C. in June, where they will hang on display to be viewed by the millions who visit the Capitol each year. Winners are also invited to the Capitol to attend the opening of the display exhibiting the 2018 winners’ works and the congressional reception celebrating the student winners. ###
04.28.2018	Washington, D.C. – Fresno Yosemite International Airport and rural airports in Merced County are big winners in H.R. 4, the FAA Reauthorization Act that the House of Representatives passed Friday, April 27th with strong bipartisan support. The legislation reauthorizes funding for the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) through the 2023 fiscal year and includes funding for airport infrastructure, modifies safety procedures, and increases consumer protections for passengers. More specifically, the bill reauthorizes funding for the Airport Improvement Program, which provides funds vital for Fresno Yosemite International Airport's expansion and efforts to increase services. In addition, H.R. 4 funds Essential Air Service and provides for $10 million annually for small community air service programs. These programs serve rural airports in Merced County and across the country. The legislation also improves funding for the contract tower operating on Merced County Castle Airport. Beyond extending funding, the legislation revamps regulations governing transportation infrastructure projects and transportation services. San Joaquin Valley Congressmen Jim Costa (CA-16) and Jeff Denham (CA-10) led the charge on two amendments that would directly benefit transportation in the Valley, No. 17 and No. 79. The amendments aim to reduce duplicative and often contradictory regulations to make them more commonsense and effective based on the realities individuals and communities face every day. Amendment No. 17 eliminates the requirement for redundant construction permits for transportation infrastructure projects. It would allow the State of California, and potentially agencies in other states, to approve all required construction permits. This creates a one-stop-shop for permitting, which streamlines the process while still maintaining environmental and community protections. When urging his colleagues to support amendment No. 17, Congressman Costa made clear the real effects of the amendment with, “In 2015, Congress passed the FAST Act, which implemented a pilot program to provide reciprocity for environmental permitting and requirements with states, like California, that have laws that provide equal or greater environmental protection… That’s why it makes such good common sense.” Costa continued, “This amendment would further streamline the delegation process… reduce project delivery times and costs, lead to more projects being constructed at a faster rate, and improve our deteriorating infrastructure.” Both amendment No. 17 and No. 79 passed in the House of Representatives and are thus included in the FAA Reauthorization Act sent to the Senate for consideration. ###
04.27.2018	Washington, D.C. – The collaboration between Ducks Unlimited, Grassland Water District, the State of California’s Wildlife Conservation Board and Department of Water Resources, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, and local private land owners to conserve wetlands within the northern San Joaquin Valley was awarded a $1 million North American Wetlands Conservation Act (NAWCA) grant this week. The project, officially titled “San Joaquin Wetlands Conservation III,” will both restore 1,340 acres of floodplain wetlands on the San Joaquin River National Wildlife Refuge and enhance 2,207 acres of wetlands and upland habitats in the Grasslands Ecological Area. By pooling state grants and private dollars, and then leveraging them for matching federal funds, this partnership aims to increase Grassland Water District’s ability to recycle and deliver water within its district, improve water conveyance to San Luis National Wildlife Refuge, and reconnect the San Joaquin River to its floodplain. This will reduce downstream flooding, improve private wetlands to benefit waterfowl, and provide wildlife habitat for salmon, waterfowl, and songbirds. Ric Ortega, General Manager of Grassland Water District, shared, “The grant-and-match funding emphasizes the ongoing partnership to deliver and manage large-scale habitat restoration projects in the San Joaquin Valley, which is widely recognized as one of the most critical habitat areas in North America. These wetlands are also critical to our local economy, groundwater sustainability, and water quality, especially given the fact that only 5% of wetlands remain in California.” “Programs funded through the North American Wetlands Conservation Act are a prime example of how public and private collaboration can deliver ecosystem-based conservation projects benefitting wildlife and people alike,” said Matt Kaminski, Ducks Unlimited Regional Biologist. Kaminski continued, “In delivering these projects, Ducks Unlimited will hire local contractors to construct these projects, thus benefitting wetland habitat, waterfowl, wildlife enthusiasts, and the local economy in Merced and Stanislaus Counties.” Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16), a long-time supporter of the NAWCA, said, “The Wetlands are an integral part of our San Joaquin Valley and vital for the economy in Merced County. They contribute roughly $73 million dollars to the county, and their additional benefits to groundwater recharge are extensive. I have always believed that government most effectively serves our communities when local, state, and federal governments work together, which is why I am a strong advocate for partnership programs, such as those authorized in the North American Wetlands Conservation Act.” The San Joaquin Wetlands Conservation III project is the third phase in a five-phase initiative to conserve wetlands and associated habitats in Merced and Stanislaus Counties. The San Joaquin Valley is recognized as one of the most important North American wintering areas for waterfowl. ###
04.24.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressmen Jim Costa (CA-16) and David G. Valadao (CA-21) – in their continued work to serve the people of the San Joaquin Valley – joined to commemorate the 103rd anniversary of the Armenian Genocide with dual speeches in the U.S. House of Representatives. Costa and Valadao have been strong advocates for the Armenian community they represent, and both are active members of the Congressional Armenian Caucus. The Valley Congressmen have consistently called for the official recognition of the Armenian Genocide by the United States, including urging the current and past Administrations multiple times to recognize the Genocide, as Presidents Reagan and Eisenhower did during their terms. Both Representatives have also joined the Congressional Armenian Caucus in leading H. Res. 220, a legislative resolution in which the House of Representatives directs the U.S. to examine and learn from the world’s reaction to the Armenian genocide in order to prevent war crimes, crimes against humanity, and future genocides. In addition to their work surrounding the Armenian Genocide, Congressmen Costa and Valadao are leaders in efforts to strengthen the relationship between the United States and Armenia, to support the free and fair treatment of the democratic Republic of Artsakh, and to hold accountable the Turkish security forces who violently attacked protesters outside of the Turkish Ambassador’s residence in Washington, D.C. last year. Last month, Congressmen Costa and Valadao were awarded the Gratitude Medal by the President of Artsakh, Bako Sahakayan, for their work supporting the nation’s development and right to self-determination. “The Armenian people show us what resilience, strength, and dedication can achieve, both in the important role they play in our San Joaquin Valley and in their contributions across the world,” said Rep. Costa. “Growing up in the San Joaquin Valley, I heard the stories of the Armenian families who settled there. We as a nation should recognize and learn from the Armenian Genocide to prevent similar atrocities from ever occurring again. It is the right and moral thing to do.” Rep. Valadao stated, “Although the tragic events we remember today occurred 103 years ago, the sense of loss still runs deep in Armenian communities across the nation where those who lost a loved one have been steadfast in their efforts to ensure the memory of those lost never fades. As a country, we must recognize the horrific events of the Armenian Genocide and work together to ensure such atrocities never take place again.” In their speeches today, Congressmen Costa and Valadao spoke about the significance of the Armenian Genocide and the strength and spirit of the Armenian people. To view a video of Congressmen Costa’s and Valadao’s speeches, click here. ###
04.20.2018	Fresno, CA – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after the Bureau of Reclamation announced an increase in water allocation for Central Valley Project water contractors: “Although this increase in water allocation is good for our San Joaquin Valley, it should not have taken the Bureau of Reclamation this long to increase its allocation. Part of what I fought so hard for in the Water Infrastructure Improvement for the Nation Act, or the WIIN Act, was the flexibility to maximize water supplies and the movement of water through the Delta when water is abundantly available, as it has been for the last month. Our Valley farmers make planting, investment, and other key decisions based on water, and delays in a secure water allocation add unnecessary uncertainty to the already highly-unpredictable agriculture sector. We must do everything we can to ensure the tools we do have for water allocation are used as effectively as possible.” Congressman Costa has spent over 30 years working to secure safe and reliable water sources for the San Joaquin Valley, both in the California state legislature and in the U.S. Congress. Rep. Costa was pivotal in getting the WIIN Act signed into law in 2016, and last month he called on U.S. Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke to increase water pumping during the storms falling across Central and Northern California, consistent with the WIIN Act. The updated allocations would provide for the following water supplies for Valley contractors: Friant Division Contractors will receive a 100% Class 1 allocation. San Joaquin River Exchange Contractors will receive a 100% water allocation. South of Delta Agriculture Water Service Contractors will receive a 40% water allocation. ###
04.18.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after the House Committee on Agriculture considered and voted on H.R. 2 – the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018 – more commonly known as the Farm Bill: “We have some of the most productive farms in the world in our San Joaquin Valley, while roughly 25 percent of individuals living in our district receive nutrition assistance through the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, or SNAP. I am, and I have always been, committed to commonsense farm and food policy that feeds Americans and ensures our farmers, ranchers, and dairy producers can be successful. Unfortunately, we did not consider this type of policy today. “The Farm Bill we considered today is deeply disappointing. For over 40 years, our Farm Bill has been the product of bipartisan deliberation, negotiation, and cooperation during which we come together and work out our differences to write America’s food bill. Today’s bill was not the result of this serious and important process, and this is reflected powerfully in the bad quality of the policy we considered today. This bill serves some very well, but it also abandons large numbers of Americans, pits regions of our country against each other, and creates rifts within industries and communities. “Although there are areas of this measure that may be good for some Valley farmers, there are important provisions that we must improve before we enact the Farm Bill. We should increase our investment in programs promoting trade and make the dairy provisions fairer and more effective. We should strengthen the effectiveness and efficiency of SNAP, not dismantle and devastate the parts of SNAP that are working, and working well. The Farm Bill is about supporting our food producers and feeding Americans. It must serve our communities, not merely specific individuals or groups within our communities. “My vote today was not a vote against those who may benefit from the bill we considered. My vote today was a call for a commonsense, bipartisan Farm Bill that will enlarge the group served to the widest range of Americans possible, including those who may benefit from today’s measure. “The Senate is currently working on a bipartisan Farm Bill, and it is my hope and belief that eventually we will reach a bipartisan policy agreement that will pass in both chambers and the President will sign. This is how we should pass legislation that reauthorizes Americans’ farm and food priorities to ensure they serve our communities, our economy, and our nation.” ###
04.13.2018	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Jim Costa (D-CA-16) and Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX-2) – co-founders and co-chairs of the bipartisan Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus (VRC) – held the Caucus’s annual awards ceremony honoring individuals for their outstanding efforts and achievements supporting and empowering victims and survivors of crime. Since they founded the VRC in 2005, Costa and Poe have been leading the congressional effort to protect the rights of crime victims and ensure survivors have access to the resources they need for recovery. “Our survivors deserve justice, plain and simple,” said Rep. Costa. “Unfortunately, our system often does not do enough to ensure they receive the support, fair treatment, and advocacy required for true justice. Congressman Poe and I formed the bipartisan Victims’ Rights Caucus because we knew something had to be done to change this. We have been working in Congress for the past thirteen years to elevate the understanding of the effects of crime on survivors and communities, and to provide survivors with real justice that fits the crimes they endured.” Costa continued, “In the same vein, those who work tirelessly every day to serve our victims and survivors far too often go unnoticed. These advocates, public servants, and other deeply dedicated individuals are frequently a lifeline for our survivors and their families. It is a true honor to recognize and thank them for their outstanding work with our annual awards.” At this year’s awards ceremony, Congressman Costa honored two local victim advocates: Arien Pauls and Julie Nauman. Rep. Costa awarded Arien Pauls the “Eva Murillo Unsung Hero Award,” which is given to an individual who is a survivor of a violent crime and has used the experience to help other survivors. Pauls is a survivor of human trafficking who now works in Fresno, California to both serve other human trafficking survivors and educate young girls about the vulnerabilities and risks that can lead to human trafficking. She is a lead victim advocate at Breaking the Chains and a prevention educator at the Central Valley Justice Coalition. Reflecting on her work, Rep. Costa deemed Pauls “an example of true strength and the triumph of the human spirit.” Costa honored Julie Nauman, Executive Officer of the California Victim Compensation Board, with the “Suzanne McDaniel Memorial Award for Public Awareness.” This award recognizes an individual or organization that has used its voice – throughout the media – to promote and to bring about change at the national level for crime victims and survivors. In her role on the Board, Nauman led her team to design and implement multi-lingual survivor outreach programs and public awareness campaigns about survivor compensation. In addition, after the mass shooting in Las Vegas in October 2017, Nauman and the California Crime Compensation Board reached across state lines to ensure the hundreds of Californians who were attending the concert received information, assistance, and guidance with victim compensation. “When my district was faced with the shooting on April 17, 2017, Julie was a remarkable ‘first responder’ in every sense of the word,” shared Rep. Costa when honoring Nauman yesterday. “She personally helped my district staff provide compensation… then helped connect the Fresno Police Department with resources that could fund victim and survivor assistance services.” In addition to Pauls and Nauman, the VRC honored awardees Megan Rondini (posthumous winner), U.S. Center for SafeSport, Honorable Judge Lisa Block Rowdin, and Jessica Johnson. For video of Congressman Costa honoring Arien Pauls, click here. For video of Congressman Costa honoring Julie Nauman, click here. For video of the entire Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus awards ceremony, click here. ###
03.30.2018	Fresno, CA – Yesterday, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) was joined by Special Guerrilla Unit (SGU) veterans and veterans organization leaders to announce and celebrate the enactment of the Hmong Veterans’ Service Recognition Act as incorporated into last week’s appropriations law. This is a significant legislative victory for SGU veterans and for the people of the San Joaquin Valley, home to thousands of Hmong and Lao American veterans who served in the Special Guerrilla Unit during the Vietnam War. Valley veterans leaders have been working on this for decades, including those who passed away before yesterday’s celebration, such as General Vang Pao, who was the commander of SGU forces during the Vietnam War, and Charlie Waters and Bill Dietzel, well-respected veterans advocates and leaders. Congressman Costa has led the bipartisan legislative initiative to extend to SGU veterans burial benefits in national cemeteries, including San Joaquin Valley National Cemetery in Santa Nella, since 2010. Costa has introduced legislation to extend burial benefits to SGU veterans in each of the last five Congresses, working closely with local SGU veterans organizations in this long-fought victory. “Today is a day of celebration for our SGU veterans, both here in our San Joaquin Valley and across our nation,” said Rep. Costa. “These courageous men and women fought alongside U.S. Armed Forces during the Vietnam War, with some making the ultimate sacrifice. After nearly a decade of determination, advocacy, and bipartisan, bicameral policy efforts, we successfully enacted this legislation. This law is a powerful symbol of a grateful nation, and it is important to ensure our SGU veterans and their families receive the honor, recognition, and benefits they have earned. This was simply the right thing to do.” Key Hmong and SGU leaders from across the United States joined for the celebratory announcement, including Peter Vang and Major Cheurchai Vang with Lao Veterans of America, Inc., Chue C. Tchang and Major Nhia Long Vang with SGU Veterans, local veterans advocates Harry Paul and Bob McLaughlin, city council officials Blong Xiong and Vong Mouanoutoua, and General Vang Pao’s son, Chi Neng Vang. The official extension of veterans burial benefits to SGU veterans was secured in the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2018, the appropriations bill that was signed into law last week. ###
03.28.2018	Washington, D.C. – In a letter released late last week, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) led his fellow Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) members in calling on Acting Director of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Thomas Homan to redirect ICE’s limited resources from the recently increasing number of I-9 work site audits to more strategic and effective vehicles for law enforcement and ensuring community safety. This is another concentrated effort Costa has taken to ensure immigration laws are fairly enforced according to the realities communities across the United States face every day. He has consistently worked with local ICE officials in the Central Valley, Sacramento, and San Francisco for decades to ensure laws are followed justly and immigrants’ rights are protected. “We need to focus immigration enforcement on the real threats: transnational criminal gangs, human and drug traffickers, and terrorists,” said Rep. Costa. “Instead of using its limited resources to apprehend hardened criminals, ICE is sending its agents to go check employment paperwork. We need smart law enforcement, not policies that intimidate immigrants, divide communities, and undermine our economy.” For years Congressman Costa has been advocating for comprehensive immigration reform, working with immigration officials, local community groups, and industry representatives to create a bipartisan plan for addressing what Costa sees as a “broken immigration system.” More recently, Rep. Costa has held numerous meetings with local businesses, agriculture groups and growers, immigration groups, and individual constituents regarding issues with the immigration system, including the I-9 work site audits in Fresno, Madera, and Merced counties. Costa also met with California Attorney General Xavier Becerra multiple times to discuss immigration in California earlier this year, including the role of state and local law enforcement, and sent his own official message to ICE Acting Director Homan regarding the I-9 work site audits earlier this month. The letter to Homan Rep. Costa led as a member of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus states the “I-9 audits would be counterproductive, reduce reporting of crimes, undermine safety and harm the economy. ICE should instead focus its limited resources on hardened criminals, not hard-working individuals who are positively contributing to our communities.” The official letter can be found here. ###
03.23.2018	Washington, D.C. – Wednesday, Rep. Ted Poe (TX-2) and Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16), co-chairmen of the bipartisan Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus (VRC), introduced H.R. 5363 to protect the Crime Victims Fund from both budget sequestration or being redirected to other uses. The Crime Victims Fund is the bedrock of support for victims and survivors of crime nationwide. Sequestration or redirection of funds would threaten to severely reduce services for victims of crime. Over 7.9 million crime victims were helped by the Crime Victims Fund in FY2016 alone, a majority of whom are survivors of physical, sexual, and domestic assault, including children victims of sexual and physical abuse. As co-chairs of the VRC, Congressmen Poe and Costa have been championing the rights of crime victims and safeguarding the Crime Victims Fund for over a decade. “The Crime Victims Fund is the lifeblood of victim service providers,” said Rep. Poe. “The Fund is paid for by convicted federal felons who are assessed fees and fines. With the money in this Fund, victim service providers help victims heal, cope, and persevere after a crime. H.R. 5363 takes necessary steps to protect the Fund, ensuring that the money cannot be spent on unrelated programs and remains untouched by sequestration. Congress must act now to ensure that this Fund – paid into by criminals – is used only for its intended purpose: to help restore victims.” “At a time when they need it the most, the Crime Victims Fund provides vital support for crime victims, including survivors of domestic violence, child abuse, and mass violence,” said Rep. Costa. “We have seen the powerful impact the Fund has on individuals and communities across our nation, and I will continue to do everything I can to protect the Fund and our ability to provide this life-altering support to survivors. It is simply the right thing to do.” The Crime Victims Fund was designed to help ensure survivors have access to the essential services they need to recover by having criminals pay for the harm they afflicted on victims. The Crime Victims Fund consists solely of criminal fines, forfeitures, and other criminal penalties. No federal tax dollars go into the Fund, and it has no impact on the national deficit, so many hold that the Crime Victims Fund should not be treated like other parts of the federal budget. ###
03.22.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed an amended version of the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2018, more commonly referred to as “the Omnibus,” by a vote of 256 to 167. The legislation is a government spending bill, in that it funds federal government programs through September 2018 at the new levels established in last month’s budget agreement. Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16), who voted in favor of the spending package, noted the vital nature of Congress passing the Omnibus, both for the nation and California’s San Joaquin Valley. “Although this legislation is imperfect, too many Americans and too many people in our Valley would be harmed if we did not pass the Omnibus today.” Rep. Costa continued, “My vote today was a vote for Valley water and agriculture, preventing wildfires, fighting the opioid epidemic, ensuring our children, elderly, and most vulnerable have food, keeping our communities safe, improving education and opportunities for our students, and many other programs and services imperative for our communities. Just as I served so many people of the Valley today, I will continue to fight for other legislation and issues that are also important in our communities, including comprehensive immigration reform and securing permanent legislative protections for DREAMers.” The Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2018 the House passed today includes: $1.48 billion for Reclamation water resources projects, including $20 million for Shasta Dam, $4.35 million for Sites Reservoir, $1.5 million for Temperance Flat Reservoir, $2.2 million for the Friant-Kern Canal, and $3.75 million for the North Valley Regional Recycled Water Project Funding for agriculture programs and services crucial in the San Joaquin Valley, including $985.1 million for the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, $3.03 billion for agriculture research programs, and $26.45 billion for rural housing loans and rental assistance $3.828 billion for wildland fire management and a new funding mechanism for wildfire suppression that will prevent “fire borrowing,” where the government borrows from forest management activities to fight wildfire disasters instead of treating them like other natural disasters Funding specifically targeted at improving the safety of water, including $1.693 billion for the Clean Water Fund, $1.163 billion for the Safe Drinking Water Fund, $50 million for new Water Infrastructure for Improvements to the Nation (WIIN) Act programs to address lead in drinking water, and $63 million for the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA) grants $2.525 billion in new grant funding for highways and $1.5 billion for National Infrastructure Investments (TIGER) grants $3.365 billion for Community Development Block Grants (CDBG), which funded $6.3 million in local development in Fresno in 2016 alone $5.4 billion for Community Health Centers $16.443 billion for education for disadvantaged students $1.414 billion for Federal Impact Aid to local schools $75 million for Comprehensive School Safety Initiative grants $1.83 billion for Career, Technical, and Adult Education programs Critical financial assistance to help make college more affordable, including an increase in the maximum Pell Grant award per student and $350 million to cancel loans under the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program $10 billion for Employment and Training services performed within the Department of Labor Full funding for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) and Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) nutrition program, which are vital for providing a reliable source of food for the food insecure and vulnerable Nearly $4 billion to fight the opioid epidemic, including $130 million for the Rural Communities Opioid Response program and $1 billion in new grants to states and Native American tribes to address opioid abuse in their communities $2.4 billion for state and local law enforcement activities, including $275 million for the COPS program and $416 million for the Byrne-JAG program $295 million for Veterans Employment and Training programs $107.709 billion for the Veterans Benefits Administration and $70.699 billion for the Veterans Health Administration A 2.4% pay increase for men and women serving in the armed forces The bill also incorporates language and would accomplish the primary goals of two bipartisan legislative initiatives Congressman Costa led in the House of Representatives with the Hmong Veterans’ Service Recognition Act (H.R. 4716) and the Agricultural Certainty for Reporting Emissions Act, or ACRE Act (H.R. 5275). The Hmong Veterans’ Service Recognition Act extends veterans burial benefits to Hmong and Lao Americans who served alongside U.S. Armed Forces during the Vietnam War, thousands of whom live in the San Joaquin Valley. The ACRE Act exempts agricultural operations from being subject to an emissions reporting requirement intended to regulate severe industrial chemical toxic waste. For more on the ACRE Act, click here. For more on the Hmong Veterans’ Service Recognition Act, click here. ###
03.21.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) continued his efforts to strengthen the relationship between the United States and Portugal by advocating for the Advancing Mutual Interests and Growing Our Success Act, or the AMIGOS Act (H.R. 5173). A second-generation Portuguese American himself, Rep. Costa has worked with Portuguese American organizations and Portuguese officials for decades. Costa and his family have been members of Portuguese American fraternal organizations and clubs since his grandparents came to the United States at the turn of the 20th Century. Congressman Costa’s memberships include the Portuguese American Leadership Council of the United States (PALCUS) and the California Portuguese American Coalition (CPAC). Outside of his support for these organizations, Rep. Costa initiated and facilitated the Sister State relationship between California and Azores, Portugal, which was made official in 2002. More recently, Costa played a significant role in establishing a Sister University relationship between Fresno State, his alma mater, and the University of the Azores. Congressman Costa represents a large Portuguese American population in California’s San Joaquin Valley, and is a co-chair of the Congressional Portuguese American Caucus. Rep. Costa also represented a sizeable Portuguese American population in the Central Valley during his time serving in the California state legislature. Noting that Portugal in one of America’s oldest and most important allies, Rep. Costa called on his colleagues to support the AMIGOS Act on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives today. “Portugal was one of the first countries to recognize the United States after we declared our independence and won the Revolutionary War… To defend western democracies, Portugal, along with the United States helped organize western Europe to create NATO… For these reasons and more, I call upon my colleagues to join me in supporting a commonsense, bipartisan piece of legislation. The AMIGOS Act will further opportunities for business in America, by creating more jobs, and continue to enhance the relationship that has existed for over 200 years between the United States and Portugal.” Watch Congressman Costa’s Speech to the House of Representatives Here: The AMIGOS Act will grant Portuguese citizens eligibility for E-1 and E-2 Visas, which allow individuals to enter the United States to conduct “substantial trade” or invest a “substantial amount of capital” respectively. In 2015 alone, bilateral trade between the U.S. and Portugal reached $4.2 billion. Congressman Costa joined Congressmen David Cicilline (RI-1) and David Valadao (CA-21) in introducing the legislation in the House of Represenatives earlier this month. ###
03.15.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16), a senior member on the House Natural Resources Committee, urged U.S. Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke to increase pumping during the storms falling in the San Joaquin Valley and across Central and Northern California, consistent with provisions Costa secured in the Water Infrastructure for Improvements to the Nation (WIIN) Act in 2016. Congressman Costa has spent decades working to secure safe and reliable water sources for the San Joaquin Valley, both as a state legislator and as a member of Congress. Costa was a pivotal actor in getting the Water Infrastructure for Improvements to the Nation (WIIN) Act signed into law. He cosponsored the law's House provisions relating to California's water system, and then worked with Senator Dianne Feinstein (CA) to ensure that important California provisions were included in the final Senate version of the law. These provisions include allowing for increased pumping opportunities when fish are not near the federal pumps and the authorization of $335 million to fund water infrastructure projects like Temperance Flat, the expansion of San Luis Reservoir, water recycling, desalination, and an improved monitoring network for fish migration. Focusing his questions today on key parts of the WIIN Act, Rep. Costa asked Sec. Zinke how the Department of Interior will ensure the flexibility required for daily water system decisions in the San Joaquin Valley to be both commonsense and based on the real time, daily water realities in the Valley. Congressman Costa reflected on today’s committee hearing with, “In the WIIN Act, we worked together to create a truly bipartisan law that can make real improvements to our water system. It is a significant piece of legislation, and I am not about to allow the power in this law go to waste because of glitches in how it is implemented.” Watch Congressman Costa Question Secretary Zinke Here: ###
03.14.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressmen Billy Long (R-MO-7) and Jim Costa (D-CA-16) introduced H.R. 5275, the Agricultural Certainty for Reporting Emissions Act, or ACRE Act, in the U.S. House of Representatives with strong bipartisan support. The legislation aims to rectify a widely-understood shortcoming with the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), a law which has provided for the clean-up of severe industrial chemical toxic waste for over 30 years. If CERCLA were to be applied to agriculture operations, 200,000 ranchers, livestock farmers, and dairy producers in the United States would be subject to regulation created to address toxic waste dumps and spills, such as chemical tank explosions. Yet, a recent court decision threatens to make this regulation a daily reality for agriculture producers as soon as May of this year. The ACRE Act will prevent CERCLA from applying to farms, thus freeing farmers, ranchers, and dairy producers from the unintended application of CERCLA, and providing them the certainty they need to run their operations. “Unfortunately, common sense is not common in Washington, D.C.,” said Rep. Long. “The bipartisan ACRE Act distinguishes between farms and hazardous waste sites to relieve farmers and ranchers of burdensome paperwork and allows them to do their jobs free from unnecessary government regulation. With southwest Missouri being home to hundreds of farmers and ranchers, this practical legislation would allow these men and women to focus on their farms rather than on filling out government forms.” Congressman Costa, a third-generation farmer in California’s San Joaquin Valley and a senior member on the House Agriculture Committee said, “The ACRE Act is good for our farmers and our food system, both in the San Joaquin Valley and across the United States. It is bipartisan, commonsense legislation that respects the need for certain types of regulation while refusing to allow blind regulation from harming our agriculture system, our businesses, and our communities.” Because Congress did not expressly state that CERCLA does not apply to farms, the law designed to address toxic waste and superfund sites can be used to regulate the naturally-occurring farm emissions which result from the daily ins-and-outs of raising livestock. Yet, most agree that Congress never intended a law designed to address industrial chemical toxic waste to be applied to farms. Along these lines, the Environmental Protection Agency issued a rule under the Bush Administration exempting farms from CERCLA’s emissions reporting requirements in 2008, and the Obama Administration successfully defended the farm exemption in federal court for eight years. However, a recent court decision revoked the exemption, with the court ruling that the EPA did not have the legal authority to issue the rule. By explicitly stating the farm exemption, the ACRE Act seeks to make the exemption permanent, restoring Congress’s intent to the original law and protecting agriculture operations from regulatory overreach. ###
03.08.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after President Trump signed new steel and aluminum tariffs which impose a 10 percent tariff on aluminum imports and a 25 percent tariff on steel imports: “California agriculture will likely feel the most intense and direct pain from these tariffs. California farmers and ranchers earned about $21 billion from trade in 2016, which was roughly 44 percent of their total revenue. “American agriculture is always a target when it comes to international reactionary and retaliatory trade behavior. China, the European Union, Mexico, and Canada are all key markets for American agriculture products, and all have indicated that these new steel and aluminum tariffs will likely result in them raising similar protectionary tariffs on U.S. products. “We all want to secure American jobs and increase opportunity in the U.S. economy, but raising these steep and wide-ranging tariffs will do just the opposite. Both Republicans and Democrats have expressed deep concern with these tariffs because we have seen this before, and we know the overwhelmingly negative consequences, no matter how unintended they may be. “The most likely way to steer our trade policy toward serving the entire nation is by Republicans and Democrats engaging in real, bipartisan policy deliberation and negotiation. The two parties appear to agree that these tariffs are misguided and unwise, so I call on members of both parties to come together in this agreement, put in the work, and create the policy Americans want, need, and deserve.” ###
03.07.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) continued his advocacy for securing Hmong and Lao American veterans recognition and honor for serving alongside American armed forces in the Vietnam War. Taking to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, Rep. Costa called on his colleagues to support the Hmong Veterans’ Service Recognition Act. Costa introduced this bipartisan legislation with Congressman Paul Cook (CA-8) to extend veterans burial benefits in national cemeteries to these Hmong and Lao American veterans. The CIA covertly trained Hmong men and women in Laos during the Vietnam War, leading them into direct combat in support of U.S. forces as members of the Special Guerrilla Units (SGUs). Countless Hmong lost their lives during this operation, often referred to as “The Secret War.” There are only 5,000 Hmong veterans estimated to still be alive, with thousands living in California’s San Joaquin Valley. The Hmong Veterans’ Service Recognition Act is supported by both the national and San Joaquin Valley chapters of the Lao Veterans of America and the Special Guerrilla Units Veterans & Families Development organization. Standing next to an image of SGU veterans from the San Joaquin Valley on the House floor this afternoon, Rep. Costa powerfully urged members of the House to “honor these courageous individuals with their choice of being laid to rest next to their brothers-in-arms. It’s the right thing to do.” Watch Congressman Costa’s Speech to the House of Representatives Here: Congressmen Costa and Cook have introduced this legislation in previous Congresses, with the bipartisan and bicameral support of the Hmong Veterans’ Service Recognition Act currently at an all-time high. Senator Lisa Murkowski (AK) is leading a similar bill in the U.S. Senate, which currently has seven cosponsors, coming from both sides of the aisle. The legislation would not change eligibility for burial at Arlington National Cemetery. ###
03.06.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16), a senior member of the House Natural Resources Committee, called for bipartisan action to address the over $16 billion worth of public land maintenance projects currently backlogged due to lack of funding within the U.S. Department of the Interior. The unattended maintenance projects are perhaps most noticeable at U.S. national parks, which themselves have over $11.6 billion worth of backlogged maintenance. Yosemite National Park, often said to be the crown jewel of national parks in California, has over $555 million in maintenance work currently not being addressed. On average, over 3.7 million people visit Yosemite every year, with over 100,000 individuals still visiting the park in its slowest month. This maintenance backlog can restrict both areas of the park and facilities open to visitors. During today’s National Resources Committee oversight hearing, Congressman Costa shared that the backlog of maintenance “has accumulated over decades,” but that raising national park fees is not an acceptable solution. According to Costa, increasing park fees is an “uneven way to handle it, doesn’t really get to the heart of the problem, and it certainly creates tremendous disadvantages for Americans who want to enjoy their parks.” Rep. Costa noted that “this is an area where we can and should have bipartisan support… The fact of the matter is, so many of our national parks throughout the country need the support.” He then called for the committee to “focus our time on a bipartisan bill that can provide real money to do this,” such as the National Park Service Legacy Act. Watch Congressman Costa’s Full Statement Here: ###
02.23.2018	Fresno, CA – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) joined the Central Valley NMTC Fund, LLC in announcing a $55 million award to Central Valley NMTC through the federal New Markets Tax Credit (NMTC) program. The NMTC program is a federal economic development tool designed to encourage private investment into economically-distressed and underserved communities by providing tax credits for private investment in Community Development Entities. These investments help finance community development projects, spur economic growth, and create jobs for the local community. “Securing this award is a major victory for our region's economy and future generations of Valley residents," said Rep. Costa. "This funding will further spur economic development in the heart of our Valley while creating high-paying jobs over the short- and long-term. As we work to improve our economy, I will continue to fight so our Valley sees a fair return on the tax dollars we send to Washington. This will improve our health care, create more jobs, and lead to other projects in our Valley that would otherwise not be funded. This is a good example of public-private partnerships that otherwise would not happen.” "Congressman Costa has been an outstanding advocate for the NMTC program. He understands what it takes to create jobs and opportunity here in the Valley,” said TJ Cox, President of Central Valley NMTC Fund, LLC. “This award of NMTC allocation will allow us to finance projects that result in the highest community development outcomes. This means more access to health care and education, job creation, community services, and increased housing opportunities.” Since 2011, Central Valley NMTC has received a total of $120 million in NMTC funds. Projects in the Valley financed through the NMTC program include the United Health Centers (UHC) of the San Joaquin Valley health clinics in Mendota, Parlier, Sanger, and Fowler as well as the Rescue the Children Campus of the Fresno Rescue Mission. With the recently awarded $55 million grant, Central Valley NMTC has planned investments for projects across the Valley, including building UHC health clinics in Selma, Lemoore, and Huron and relocating the Darling Rendering Plant that currently stands in Southwest Fresno. ###
02.13.2018	Fresno, CA – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) joined Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue and Congressmen Jeff Denham (CA-10) and David Valadao (CA-21) at an agriculture town hall meeting at the World Ag Expo in Tulare, California. The town hall provided an opportunity for agriculture producers to ask questions and speak directly to officials about America’s food policy, including setting priorities for the next Farm Bill. “It is essential that we listen to our agriculture communities regarding the challenges they face every day in putting food on Americans’ dinner tables,” said Rep. Costa, one of the senior members on the House Agriculture Committee. “As a third-generation farmer in California’s San Joaquin Valley, I know just how powerfully policies affect producers, agriculture communities, and people’s access to food. I look forward to continuing to hear from our Valley agriculture producers, farm workers, and nutrition organizations.” Congressman Costa has worked on three Farm Bills while serving in Congress, and he was instrumental in enacting the WIIN Act, which aims to create a reliable water supply for agriculture and all individuals in the San Joaquin Valley. Costa has held numerous agriculture roundtables and meetings across California in preparation for the upcoming reauthorization of the Farm Bill, including a listening session with House Agriculture Committee Ranking Member Collin Peterson (MN-7) and Congressman Jimmy Panetta (CA-20) in Salinas, California last year. The Farm Bill is due for reauthorization by September 30th. ###
02.09.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) voted in favor of the Bipartisan Budget Act, a bipartisan budget deal that will fully fund the military as well as domestic program priorities through Fiscal Year 2019. The legislation will provide the federal government with the long-term budget it needs to plan for more than weeks at a time and fully operate essential government programs, many of which directly impact industries and individuals across California’s San Joaquin Valley. “Today the House of Representatives finally did its job: We passed a long-term budget that provides our military and government programs with the funding vital for protecting our national security, tackling the challenges facing our nation, and taking care of our children, our veterans, and our most vulnerable Americans,” said Rep. Jim Costa, who voted in favor of the budget bill that passed the House with a 240-186 vote. “Equally important, this two-year budget provides the certainty required for businesses and families to make decisions and plan, and for the government to invest in our nation’s future.” “Passing a long-term budget is well overdue, and I hope we in Congress continue these serious bipartisan efforts as we address our next pressing issue, which needs to be protecting DREAMers and comprehensive immigration reform,” Congressman Costa continued. “Speaker Ryan has said that he will bring the debate on DREAMer protections and immigration reform to the floor once we reach a budget agreement, and I will hold him to his word.” The Bipartisan Budget Act will reverse sequestration and raise the limits on government discretionary spending for both defense and non-defense spending. More specifically, the legislation will provide for: $7.8 billion for community health centers, such as Madera’s Camarena, Fresno’s Clinica Sierra Vista, and Golden Valley and Livingston Health Centers throughout the San Joaquin Valley. $20 billion for infrastructure investment, including rural broadband expansion, improving surface transportation, and water and energy infrastructure projects. $89 billion in additional disaster relief, including funds specifically designated to help California communities recover from last year’s devastating wildfires. $4 billion for programs that aid college affordability, including those that help police officers, teachers, and firefighters. The bipartisan budget agreement will also: Fund programs to fight the opioid epidemic, including helping children and families affected by opioid addiction. Eliminate the cap on livestock insurance and strengthen the Dairy Margin Protection Program, which increases livestock and dairy farmers’ ability to manage the risk inherent to their industry. Continue funding for hospitals that serve all patients, regardless of their ability to pay, including Community Regional Medical Center in Fresno, Mercy Medical Center in Merced, and Madera Community Hospital. Reauthorize the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for 10 years, which covers tens of thousands of children in California’s 16th Congressional District alone. Create the Joint Select Committee on Budget and Appropriations Process Reform, which will provide recommendations to the U.S. House and Senate by November 30th on ways to significantly reform and improve the federal government’s budget and appropriations process. ###
01.29.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) and his colleagues in the Problem Solvers Caucus released a set of bipartisan principles to serve as starting points of agreement from which Congress can move forward to pass a fiscally-responsible long-term budget, extend permanent protections to DREAMers, and increase border security. Rep. Costa has a long history of working on a bipartisan basis for the people of the San Joaquin Valley, including his leadership in enacting the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation (WIIN) Act and his work on multiple Farm Bills. “Time and time again we have seen what happens when we let partisanship run Washington: We do not have a long-term budget, our DREAMers live in fear every day, our immigration system remains broken, our infrastructure is literally crumbling before our eyes, our national security is weakened, and uncertainty cripples government programs essential to businesses and individual Americans,” said Rep. Costa. “In our San Joaquin Valley, passing a long-term budget is imperative for food safety and plant health programs, managing forests and fighting wildfires, ensuring our children have enough food through the Women, Infants, and Children nutrition program, and providing medical care at our community health centers. We also have DREAMers in our Valley – with roughly 1,200 attending Fresno State and UC Merced – who we must protect. In the Problem Solvers Caucus, we know that bipartisan negotiation and deliberation is the only way to provide Americans with stable policy solutions. That is why we came together to propose principles to start the broader bipartisan discussions required to reach an agreement on a long-term budget, DREAMer protections, and increased border security.” The principles proposed by the Problem Solvers Caucus today lay the groundwork for an agreement on protecting DREAMers and addressing border security while building on the group’s bipartisan outline for a fiscally-responsible budget deal from November. For the Problem Solvers Caucus’s multifaceted agreement, click here. ###
01.26.2018	Fresno, CA – Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) met with DREAMers at Fresno State on Thursday to hear their stories, listen to their concerns, and discuss Congress’s ongoing efforts to secure permanent legislative protections for the young individuals. The conversation was emotion-filled, as each student recounted their story of coming to the United States as a child and shared the fear they feel every day for themselves, their siblings, and their future. “It’s an emotional topic – it’s hard,” explained one DREAMer. “People don’t know what we’ve been through. We didn’t do anything wrong. We work hard.” Rep. Costa sat by each student, listening intensely as each imparted their story, before then assuring the students and Fresno State leadership that he will continue working for permanent DREAMer protection. “Living with this uncertainty: it’s not right, it’s unfair, and it’s outrageous,” Congressman Costa told the students and university officials during the meeting. “My grandparents immigrated to this country and faced many of the same challenges you do. My story, your story, the American story is the story of immigrants.” Rep. Costa has been working for DREAMer protections and bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform for years. “We must protect DREAMers here in the San Joaquin Valley and across our country. It is simply the right thing to do. In addition, we must let our DREAMers know that we stand with them, and that we will not stop fighting for them. I have been unwavering in my support for DREAMers, as have many of my colleagues. We will continue to work for DREAMer protections through bipartisan legislation because that is the best way to provide real and permanent protections for these young people,” said Costa following Thursday’s meeting. Fresno State President Joseph Castro has been a strong advocate for DREAMers, and joined Congressman Costa in meeting with students on Thursday. ”We appreciate Congressman Costa, a Fresno State alumnus, for taking the time to visit campus to meet with our DREAMer students,” President Castro said of the meeting. He continued, “As the next generation of leaders in our region and beyond, Fresno State students contribute valuable perspectives on their personal aspirations and professional ambitions. It’s important that our elected officials hear from them first hand.” There are nearly 600 DREAMers attending Fresno State, and the university provides resources to help ensure DREAMer students access to education and academic success through its Dream Success Center. Dream Success Center Coordinator Gaby Encinas shared, “We at the Dream Success Center are advocates on behalf of DREAMers. We believe in these young people, and we stand with Fresno State and President Castro in providing these students with equitable access to resources and opportunities for success. It is essential that our DREAMer students know that we stand with them and that they trust us to be their advocates, so it is great to have Congressman Costa meet with these students, listen to them, and show DREAMers that he and so many of us are fighting for them.” During yesterday’s meeting, Congressman Costa shared with the Fresno State students his continued efforts to secure permanent protections for DREAMers, including cosponsoring the Dream Act and his ongoing work as a member of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. For a list of actions Rep. Costa has taken to secure DREAMer protections, click here. ###
01.20.2018	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) issued the following statement after Congress failed to pass a spending continuing resolution to keep the government open: “As members of Congress, passing a budget and funding the services our government provides is our most basic function. With today’s government shutdown, we once again see political brinkmanship prevail over commonsense governance. We never should have gotten here in the first place. It is completely unacceptable that we resort to funding the government for only weeks at a time because we cannot come to an agreement on a long-term budget. Funding the government month-by-month – with the looming potential of a shutdown each time we must pass another spending bill – causes uncertainty in programs which are vital for Americans, our businesses, our national defense, our military servicemembers, and our veterans. “There is too much at stake for Congress to continue playing these partisan games with programs that affect Americans’ daily lives. Every day, an average of 122 DREAMers lose their protections, and we must provide them with permanent legislative protections. We must also extend funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program, or CHIP, before children across our nation lose their health care. In the San Joaquin Valley, we know how important these programs are in our communities and just how significantly they impact the people of the Valley. We have roughly 1,200 DREAMers enrolled at UC Merced and Fresno State, and our Valley children depend on CHIP for their medical care. As Members of Congress, we have a responsibility to the people who sent us to Congress to serve their best interests. I call on my Republican and Democratic colleagues to step up and join me in meeting that responsibility. “The only way Congress will be able to find real and long-term solutions to the challenges Americans are facing is by Democrats and Republicans coming together to engage in serious bipartisan deliberation, negotiations, and policymaking. This is not always the easiest thing to do, but it must be done, and it can be done. For years I have been reaching across the aisle to engage in this type of policymaking because this is the responsible leadership and good governance the American people deserve. I invite my colleagues to join me in putting party to the side, putting Americans first, and working for these bipartisan, deliberative policy solutions.” ###
01.12.2018	Washington, DC — In his ongoing efforts to improve infrastructure in the San Joaquin Valley, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) joined his colleagues in the congressional Problem Solvers Caucus this week in releasing their report with policy recommendations for improving and investing in America’s infrastructure. Rep. Costa has a long history of working on repairing and building new infrastructure in the Valley. As a California State Senator, Costa was integral in the expansion of California’s SR 180, with the segment between Route 99 and Chestnut Avenue now named “Senator Jim Costa Highway.” Since being elected to Congress, Costa has worked to secure federal funds for the widening of Highway 99 and for the ACE railway corridor project. Additionally, from leading the state legislation that created the Kern County Water Bank and carrying multiple California water bonds while in the California legislature, to securing federal funds to connect Fairmead to Madera County’s water system and $10 million of federal money for Black Rascal Creek flood control and ground water recharge in Merced County, Rep. Costa has been especially active in improving water infrastructure in the San Joaquin Valley. “The health and development of our economy and communities rely on our infrastructure, which is why I have always made, and will continue to make, improving the infrastructure in our San Joaquin Valley a priority,” said Rep. Costa. “We know from our country’s history that infrastructure projects move forward most effectively when local, state, and federal governments all do their part. The state of California and all three counties in my district have stepped up, raising their own money for critical transportation and infrastructure improvement projects. Now it’s time that the federal government match the commitment made by our local and state governments.” “We must stop living off the investments our parents and grandparents made over the last two generations and take seriously our obligation to invest intelligently in infrastructure and create long-term policy solutions to both repair our broken infrastructure and develop and innovate for the future,” continued Rep. Costa, member of the Problem Solvers Caucus and supporter of the caucus’s recommendations. “The Problem Solvers Caucus policy recommendations are critical starting points for the bipartisan, deliberative process required for this type of legislation, and I hope our recommendations can serve as a foundation of consensus on which bipartisan collaboration can build policy that repairs, advances, and invests in America’s infrastructure.” The Problem Solvers Caucus is a bipartisan group of representatives working to find a path forward for responsible governance. The caucus’s Infrastructure Working Group met with over one hundred stakeholder organizations, congressional leaders, and the Administration to produce the report and provide the recommendations. The recommendations address both rural and urban infrastructure needs and cover numerous types of infrastructure, including roads and bridges, transit and railways, ports and airports, water and sewer systems, energy systems and the power grid, and broadband and communications networks. The Problem Solvers Caucus full report and policy recommendations can be found here. ###
01.05.2018	Fresno, CA — Today Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) hosted a press conference in front of the Lao Hmong American War Memorial in Fresno County’s Courthouse Park as part of his ongoing efforts to honor Hmong and Lao American veterans. Rep. Costa was joined by Mr. Chi Neng Vang of the Special Guerrilla Units (SGU) Veterans – who is the youngest son of General Vang Pao – Executive Director Peter Vang of the Fresno chapter of Lao Veterans of America, and Hmong and Lao veterans from across California’s Central Valley to discuss the Hmong Veterans’ Service Recognition Act and its significance for the Hmong community. Costa introduced the Hmong Veterans’ Service Recognition Act into the U.S. House of Representatives on December 21, 2017, and the legislation would extend burial benefits to Hmong and Lao American veterans who served alongside U.S. forces during the Vietnam War. “Many people across our country do not know about the brave Hmong and Lao men and women who risked their lives, fighting shoulder-to-shoulder with American soldiers during the Vietnam War,” said Rep. Costa, who has made honoring Hmong and Lao American veterans a priority over the course of his career in public service. “This is why, for years, I have been working with veterans organizations, other members of Congress, and local leaders to get these courageous Hmong and Lao men and women the recognition they deserve. These veterans deserve our nation’s deep gratitude and the choice of being laid to rest alongside their brothers-in-arms in our national cemeteries, such as San Joaquin National Cemetery in Santa Nella.” During the Vietnam War, the CIA covertly trained Hmong men and women in Laos and then led them into direct combat in support of U.S. forces, an operation often referred to as “The Secret War.” Following the Vietnam War, thousands of Hmong veterans and their families resettled across the United States and in California’s San Joaquin Valley. Although there are only an estimated 5,000 Hmong veterans still alive, thousands live in the San Joaquin Valley. Peter Vang, Executive Director of Lao Veterans of America, Fresno shared, “The (Hmong and Lao) veterans’ journey from war to the U.S. was not easy. We feel obligated to get them th[is] benefit because they tell us, ‘I want to make sure I will be honored at an American Military Cemetery and show my children I fought with American soldiers.” The Hmong Veterans’ Service Recognition Act has bipartisan support in the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate. In addition, both the national and San Joaquin Valley chapters of the Special Guerrilla Units (SGU) Veterans & Families Development organization and Lao Veterans of America endorse the legislation. ###
12.22.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday Congressman Jim Costa (D-CA-16) was joined by Vietnam veteran Congressman Paul Cook (R-CA-8) in introducing H. R. 4716, the Hmong Veterans’ Service Recognition Act. The bipartisan legislation would extend to Hmong and Lao Americans who served alongside U.S. Armed Forces during the Vietnam War burial benefits in national cemeteries. Congressmen Raul Ruiz (D-CA-36) and Don Young (R-AK-At Large) are cosponsoring the legislation, and Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) has introduced a similar bill in the Senate, which currently has seven cosponsors coming from both sides of the aisle. “The United States has not done enough to honor the courageous Hmong men and women who fought on behalf of the United States during the Vietnam War,” said Rep. Jim Costa, who has been working for years to extend burial benefits to Hmong veterans. “These brave individuals conducted direct missions and entered combat shoulder-to-shoulder with U.S. soldiers. Hmong forces saved countless American lives, and more than 100,000 Hmong made the ultimate sacrifice over the course of the war. These heroes deserve our nation’s deep gratitude, and granting Hmong veterans the honor of being laid to rest in our national cemeteries, such as Santa Nella’s San Joaquin Valley National Cemetery, is long overdue.” Following the Vietnam War, thousands of Hmong veterans resettled across the United States and in California’s San Joaquin Valley. Currently there are only an estimated 5,000 Hmong veterans still alive, with thousands living in the San Joaquin Valley. In addition to having bipartisan support in both chambers of Congress, the Hmong Veterans’ Service Recognition Act is supported by the national and San Joaquin Valley chapters of the Special Guerrilla Units Veterans & Families Development organization and the Lao Veterans of America. The legislation would not change eligibility for burial at Arlington National Cemetery. ###
12.21.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after the House passed a continuing resolution to fund the government at current levels through January 19, 2018: “Today’s vote is a continuation of the dysfunction in Washington, and it further illustrates the damage that results from partisan politics and irresponsible leadership. It is unacceptable that we have to resort to funding the government for weeks at a time because we cannot sit down together – Democrats and Republicans – and negotiate a real budget bill. One of our key responsibilities as members of Congress is to keep the government open, which is why I voted for the spending bill today. Yet another equally-important responsibility is providing the stability and certainty the government needs to operate well and Americans need to invest and plan for their futures, and Congress has failed to fulfill this responsibility in 2017. We must do better. When Congress returns to Washington in January, I will continue to advocate for the bipartisan, stable policy solutions and the good governance Americans need and deserve. ###
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after the House passed the conference committee’s version of the tax bill: “Today’s vote reflects a missed opportunity to use bipartisan comprehensive tax reform to return our nation to a fiscally-responsible path while making our tax system fairer and simpler. Instead, the House passed a partisan tax bill which will increase our national debt by $2.2 trillion and which pays for permanent corporate tax cuts by increasing taxes on America’s middle class and families in 2025. The legislation the House passed today is fiscally-reckless and a sad excuse for reform, and it will harm people across our country and the San Joaquin Valley. “History shows us that tax cuts are less effective at growing the economy than revenue-neutral reform, so adding $2.2 trillion to our national debt is not only irresponsible, it is senseless. By limiting the individual state and local tax deduction to $10,000, the bill will essentially be punitive double taxation on many individuals who live in states where both property and sales tax are high, such as California. By eliminating the individual health care mandate, the legislation will also increase both the cost of premiums and the amount government pays in health care subsidies while decreasing the number of individuals with health insurance. The California Hospital Association estimates that this will cause 40,900 individuals in my district to lose coverage and 1,810,000 individuals in California to lose coverage by 2025, all while adding to the national deficit. “Although there are some good things in this bill, overall the bill does more harm to Americans and to the American economy than it does good. I simply could not vote for a bill that we all know is fiscally irresponsible, and that we all know will hurt so many people in our Valley.” ###
12.15.2017	FRESNO, CA – Today Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement in response to the tax bill reported out of the conference committee: “Since being elected to Congress, reforming the U.S. tax code to make it fairer, simpler, and incentivize pro-growth investment in America’s economy has been one of my priorities. Our tax plan should not add to our national debt or deficit, and we must ensure that it does not unfairly benefit certain groups while asking other groups to carry a disproportionately high amount of the costs. This type of comprehensive tax reform must be done through a bipartisan, transparent, and deliberative policy process. "My Republican colleagues did not engage in an open process involving expert testimony or bipartisan negotiations, the results of which are seen in the overall quality of their tax bill and their inability to get a majority of Americans to support it. Yet, regardless of the rushed and partisan course Republicans have taken up to this point, I still take seriously my duty as a member of Congress and as a representative of the San Joaquin Valley. My staff and I will spend this weekend examining the tax bill reported out of the conference committee, paying especially close attention to the legislation’s expected effects on the national debt, America’s middle class, and the Valley’s agriculture system, economy, health care, students, and families.” ###
12.06.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) launched his annual holiday card drive for San Joaquin Valley servicemembers and veterans. In what is now a yearly tradition, Congressman Costa collects holiday cards at his Fresno and Merced district offices to be delivered to servicemembers and veterans receiving care at the VA Medical Center in Fresno. In addition to inviting residents of California’s 16th Congressional District to mail or drop cards off at his district offices, Rep. Costa also partners with local elementary schools in Fresno, Merced, and Madera counties, collecting handmade cards from Valley students for these Valley heroes. “Our servicemembers, veterans, and their families sacrifice so much to protect our freedom, and it is important that we let them know that we value them and everything they do,” said Costa. “That’s why I hold the holiday card drive every year, to encourage people across our district to join in showing their gratitude, and to make sure veterans and servicemembers in our Valley know just how thankful and appreciative we are for them.” Cards can be dropped off or mailed to Congressman Costa’s district offices through December 21st. All cards should be signed with a few lines of appreciation and placed in unsealed, unaddressed envelopes. Please refrain from purchasing or making cards that include glitter. Cards cannot contain pictures or illustrations of guns, blood, war scenes, or death. If mailing cards, please place cards in a separate envelope and send to Rep. Costa’s Fresno office at: Congressman Jim Costa “Holiday Cards for Veterans” 855 M Street, Suite 940 Fresno, CA 93721 For more information, please contact Rep. Costa’s office at 559-495-1620 or 209-384-1620. ###
11.30.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 3017, the Brownfields Enhancement, Economic Redevelopment, and Reauthorization Act of 2017 with a vote of 409 to 8. If enacted, the bill will expand and increase funding for the Environmental Protection Agency’s Brownfields Program, which provides grants for the clean-up and revitalization of properties polluted by industrial and other types of contaminants. The Brownfields Program has broad support as it works to clean up contaminated properties, helps make polluted and rundown land usable again, and often relieves pressure to develop pristine open land by providing the newly-usable land as a safe and viable alternative. “The Brownfields Program has a track record of success, both in our San Joaquin Valley and across the U.S.,” said Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16), who supports the Brownfields Enhancement, Economic Redevelopment, and Reauthorization Act of 2017. “In my district alone, we have 34 properties the program has helped to revitalize in Chowchilla, Fresno, Gustine, Livingston, Madera, and Merced, with Castle Air Force Base being perhaps the most notable. Castle Air Force Base was so contaminated with facility waste and hazardous chemicals it was designated a Superfund site, and now, thanks to the Brownfields Program, we have cleaned up the waste and chemicals and have 2,777 acres of clean, usable land. This program is widely supported by local and state governments, environmental and industry groups throughout the country, and Republicans and Democrats alike, so I hope the Senate passes this bill and we can see it signed into law soon.” As of October 1, 2017, the Brownfields Program has made over 69,000 acres of land usable again. The legislation has strong bipartisan support in the House of Representatives, and the House Energy and Commerce Committee voted unanimously in support of the bill in June. ###
11.22.2017	FRESNO, CA – Today Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) issued the following statement after the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Ajit Pai announced his proposal to repeal net neutrality rules issued by the FCC in 2015: “An open internet, with equal access for all, is important to our future. In our society and across the global economy, the internet has become an essential tool for businesses and individuals to connect, engage, innovate, raise their voice, and share their vision. Net neutrality is a principle that provides equal access to content, platforms, and websites. This is why I support net neutrality and why we need a stable policy that protects individual consumers, businesses, and all Americans equally.” ###
11.21.2017	FRESNO, CA – Last week 237 members of the U.S. House of Representatives sent a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member on the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions, calling for the committee to take action on H.R. 2353, the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act. There is strong bipartisan support for the legislation in the House, where it has 40 cosponsors from both sides of the aisle and passed unanimously on June 22nd. The Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions has taken no action on the bill since it was referred to the committee after its passage in the House. “Career and technical education programs have played a critical role in helping many of our young people find long-term employment or develop a career, especially in our rural and underserved communities,” said Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16), who joined 236 of his House colleagues in sending the letter. “In our San Joaquin Valley, Madera Unified School District has twenty-two career pathways which include on-the-job training and education in multiple industry sectors. We have seen these programs make a real difference in the lives of our students. Companies and organizations across numerous industry sectors also support these programs, as they train students to be job-ready upon graduation. This legislation is good for our students, our communities, and our businesses, which is why we came together in the House – Republicans and Democrats – to pass this legislation in June, and why we are joining together to urge the Senate to act on this bill.” The Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act aims to both modernize career and technical education (CTE) programs and fund grants for these programs through fiscal year 2023. In addition to other provisions, the bill calls for more input at the state and local level from teachers, school administrators, and industry representatives when developing and designing CTE programs. The Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions will likely need to consider and vote on the legislation before the entire Senate votes on the bill, which is why the 237 members of the House sent their letter to the Senate committee. The full text of the letter is below, and the signed letter can be found here. ______________________________________________________________________________ Dear Chairman Alexander and Ranking Member Murray: On Thursday, June 22, 2017, the House of Representatives unanimously passed H.R. 2353, the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act. As Members of Congress committed to increasing access to high-quality career and technical education (CTE), we respectfully request that the Senate HELP Committee begin consideration of this legislation. If signed into law, H.R. 2353 will reauthorize the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act for the first time since 2006, ensuring that the federal policy governing CTE is modern, robust and well-engineered. As you know, CTE plays an important role in the success of both traditional and non-traditional students and improves the profitability of all sectors of the American economy. Business owners depend on Perkins Act programs to bridge the skills gap and increase the number of job-ready candidates. Thanks to skills-based learning, employers can be confident that students will have the tools they need to succeed in a number of career pathways, including manufacturing, information technology (IT) and agriculture as they enter the job market. With this in mind, we believe it is incumbent upon this body to pass legislation that will help millions of Americans access the skills and technical knowledge they need to build promising futures. We greatly appreciate your dedication to this issue and look forward to working in a bipartisan, bicameral manner to reauthorize the Perkins Act. Thank you for your leadership and we look forward to your timely reply. Sincerely, ###
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: “Our tax code is inefficient, too complicated, and filled with too many gimmicks and loopholes. For years I have called for fiscally-responsible comprehensive tax reform that makes the American tax system fairer and simpler while incentivizing intelligent pro-growth investment in our economy. Although the tax bill the House passed today does make changes to our tax code, these changes do not meet the test for the real, balanced reform Americans need. “If enacted, I believe the bill will have unintended negative consequences that will be felt across the country and in our San Joaquin Valley. Under this legislation, well over half of the people in my district will pay more in taxes when certain provisions for individuals expire in 2027, and important tax benefits critical for agriculture and education in our Valley will be eliminated immediately. The House bill would also partially eliminate the State and Local Tax Deduction, which saved money for over 133,000 families in Fresno, Merced, and Madera counties in 2015. The New Markets Tax Credit – an economic incentive that has created over 2,700 jobs in my district and brought $69.5 million in investments to Fresno and Merced – would also be eliminated under the legislation. “What’s more, this legislation would add over $2 trillion to our national debt over the next ten years. Today, America’s debt is over $20 trillion, the largest it’s been in our country’s history. Increasing our debt will slow wage growth, hamper further economic development, and lead to fewer jobs and higher interest rates over time. It is irresponsible and immoral to saddle future generations with our debt because Congress is failing to work together to make the tough choices necessary to put our fiscal house in order. “Although there are some provisions in the bill that would provide tax relief in many areas, I have to consider both the pluses and minuses, just as I do with all legislation. Overall, the bill the House passed today is not good for our Valley, our nation, or our future generations. We need fiscally-responsible comprehensive tax reform that incentivizes investments in our economy and serves the economic interests of all Americans. Sadly, this legislation fails to meet that test. “I want to make bipartisan tax reform happen, and I’ve demonstrated that for years. My hope is that, when this legislation comes back to the House in a different form, my Republican colleagues will include those of us who want to see bipartisan tax reform happen in a real way. History shows that, when Congress works together in a bipartisan process, we can successfully reform our broken tax code in a responsible way. This is the type of leadership and good governance Americans want. The people of the Valley, and all Americans, deserve a better process and a better result.” ###
11.09.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – The Environment Subcommittee of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce held a hearing this morning to examine a Discussion Draft of the Farm Regulatory Certainty Act. The proposal is for bipartisan legislation led by Congressmen Dan Newhouse (R-WA-4) and Jim Costa (D-CA-16) that would amend the citizen suit provision of the Resources Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) with respect to agricultural operations. The Newhouse/Costa Discussion Draft of the Farm Regulatory Certainty Act aims to protect farmers, who are trying to do the right thing and comply with applicable requirements, from citizen lawsuits if the state or Environmental Protection Agency is already actively working with the agricultural operation through a civil, criminal, or administrative action to address identified problems. “This legislation is straightforward and limited in scope to the citizen suit provisions under RCRA. Simply put, this legislation covers only the agricultural activities that are already exempt under EPA’s RCRA regulations,” said Rep. Newhouse, who is sponsoring the bill. “I firmly believe farmers have and must continue to lead the charge on good stewardship and conservation. The discussion draft before you today seeks to protect farmers who are trying to do the right thing with state or federal agencies to address nutrient management issues.” “Farmers, ranchers, and dairymen know better than anyone just how much they depend on the land for their livelihoods, and they have always been some of our best environmental stewards,” said Rep. Jim Costa, a Democratic cosponsor of the bill. “My home state of California produces more food and fiber than any other state, all while complying with some of the most rigorous environmental regulations in the world. Farmers acting in good faith to improve their environmental practices should not be targeted by lawsuits while they are actively working to meet regulations. This commonsense legislation would go a long way to both improve the environment and allow our San Joaquin Valley to continue to put food on dinner tables throughout the nation.” A background memo, legislative text, witness testimony, and an archived webcast can be found online HERE. ###
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after the release of the House Republican tax bill, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: “Americans need long-term tax reform that makes the tax system fairer, simpler, and incentivizes pro-growth investments that serve the economic interests of all Americans. This requires a bipartisan deliberative process that skillfully examines various options for reform and carefully considers their consequences. This is good governance. “The drafting of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was not a bipartisan process, and it appears House Republicans are going to rush the bill through the chamber. I urge my Republican colleagues to change their course, reach across the aisle, engage in serious bipartisan negotiations, and give Americans the good governance they want, need, and deserve. “Over the next few days, I will carefully review the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and evaluate the policy based on how it would likely affect our national debt, and how it plans to incentivize intelligent investment in the American economy and our American future. I will pay especially close attention to how this bill would likely affect the State and Local Tax, the Earned Income Tax Credit, the Child Tax Credit, the New Markets Tax Credit, and our agriculture and small business communities. “Fiscally-responsible tax reform is policy that does not increase the deficit, does not unfairly harm one state, region, or group in order to disproportionally benefit another, and does not saddle future generations with our debt. I have always called for bipartisan fiscally-responsible tax reform, and I will continue to do so. We simply cannot mortgage our future.” ###
11.01.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed H. R. 2936, the Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2017, by a vote of 232 to 188. In passing the measure, the House initiated action to address some of the weaknesses in the current national forest management system. The legislation would reduce the regulatory burden forest managers face when trying to combat wildfires, produce timber, and maintain the health and productivity of America’s national forests. “For years California’s forests have been ravaged by wildfires, and I have been working to address how we manage our forests and combat these fires. As a result of arcane budgeting rules, funds intended to prevent wildfires have been used instead to fight them. This leads to an endless cycle of trying to minimize the devastation of these wildfires on our communities after they have started, as opposed to managing our forests to prevent fires in the first place,” said Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16). “Although the bill we passed in the House will likely require improvements to pass the United States Senate, today the House took a step to address the many challenges we have managing our federal forests in a common sense way. Given the devastation of this year’s wildfire season, it is far past time that Congress finally address this issue with legislation that will help decrease the frequency and intensity of wildfires, increase our water supply, improve forest management, and, in turn, strengthen the economic vitality and health of California’s mountain communities.” The U.S. Forest Service has spent more than $2.3 billion on fire suppression in the 2017 fiscal year, the most ever spent in a single year to fight wildfires. Almost $576 million of this nearly $2.3 billion was originally designated for forest management activities. ###
10.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed H. R. 1698, the Iran Ballistic Missiles and International Sanction Enforcement Act with strong bipartisan support. The bill aims to stop Iran’s development of ballistic missiles through a combination of expanding sanctions, intensifying sanction enforcement, and increasing reporting of Iran’s ballistic missile supply chain. The House voted on the legislation less than two weeks after President Trump decided to decertify the 2015 Iran Nuclear Agreement. “I have long called for tough sanctions on Iran, and this legislation strengthens our ability to use sanctions to prevent Iran from further developing its ballistic missile program. In passing this bipartisan bill today, the House of Representatives came together to protect both American citizens and people all over the world,” said Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16), who cosponsored the bill. “This being said, America’s national security requires that the U.S. remain credible, which means we must keep our agreements, be a reliable international partner, and enforce our sanctions. Only with this credibility will we be able to work with our allies to make the world safer through a comprehensive strategy of diplomacy, sanctions, and deterrence.” Congressman Costa was a member of the conference committee which drafted the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act in 2010, and he supports a plan for continued pressure on Iran. On October 11th, Rep. Costa called on the Administration to follow through with the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, otherwise known as the Iran Nuclear Deal. ###
10.18.2017	FRESNO, CA – Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) issued the following statement today after the leaders of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions – Sen. Lamar Alexander (R-TN) and Sen. Patty Murray (D-WA) – announced their bipartisan agreement to improve the Affordable Care Act, which includes funding the cost-sharing reduction payments the Administration cut last week: “The bipartisan health care agreement reached in the Senate takes seriously the need to address weaknesses in the Affordable Care Act, and I commend Senators Alexander and Murray for refusing to give into the partisanship that has thwarted previous efforts to improve the ACA. I am particularly pleased to see that the Senate plan parallels some of the core ideas of the bipartisan health care framework we in the Problem Solvers Caucus proposed in July, including stabilizing the individual market through funding cost-sharing reduction payments and reducing health care premiums. I have always said that we need bipartisanship to provide real and long-term solutions to fix our policy problems, and this health care proposal is a significant step towards giving Americans the stable, responsible health care policy they want and deserve.” The Problem Solvers Caucus’s bipartisan health care proposal released in July can be found here. ###
10.13.2017	FRESNO, CA – Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) issued the following statement today after President Trump signed an executive order to end cost-sharing reduction payments (CSR) to insurance companies providing health care to individuals enrolled in Affordable Care Act health insurance marketplaces: “The Administration’s decision to end cost-sharing reduction payments is irresponsible and illogical. Ending these payments will cause the government to spend more money to insure fewer people. According to the Congressional Budget Office, this decision will add $194 billion to the national deficit over the next decade while our nation’s most vulnerable lose coverage. Furthermore, we all know that markets must be stable for businesses to provide consumers with affordable, high-quality products. The cost-sharing reduction payments are crucial for stability in the individual health care market, which is why many of us in Congress – Democrats and Republicans alike – have been advocating for making these payments permanent through legislation. Ending these payments will cause even more instability in the health care market, which will lead to higher premiums and fewer options for Americans across the country. “Since its enactment, I have always believed that the Affordable Care Act has problems that must be addressed. But the way to fix problems is with bipartisan, commonsense solutions, not with partisan, senseless decisions and actions, such as this executive order.” ###
10.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) issued the following statement today after the U.S. House of Representatives voted on House Continuing Resolution 71 and other alternative budget proposals, each of which would establish the federal budget for fiscal year 2018 and position budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027: “Today, the House voted on a number of budget alternatives that do not strike the needed balance between fiscal responsibility and meeting the needs of our most vulnerable citizens. The alternatives proposed by members of the Democratic Party do little to address our nation’s unsustainable and growing debt, while the proposed cuts in the Republican budget threaten the health care of over 121,000 individuals in our district alone and require the Agriculture Committee to cut $10billion from its programs. The Republican budget also calls for changes that will make fewer low-income students eligible for Pell grants and fewer of our disabled eligible for Social Security disability insurance. Although the resolution voted on today includes some positive reforms to our budget process, these positive process reforms do not outweigh the negative impact the budget itself will have on our Valley and our country. “I have always, and will always, stand for fiscal responsibility, which means we must reduce our deficit and our debt, and we cannot abandon those who need our help. Our votes in Congress reflect our values, and my votes today were informed by my adamant and unmovable support for real fiscal responsibility. I will continue to work for fiscally-responsible policies and budgets, and I welcome my colleagues – from both sides of the aisle – to join me in putting our country back on the right budgetary and financial track, while not abandoning our neighbors who need our help.” ###
10.04.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today members of the U.S. House of Representatives – led by the House Democratic Caucus National Security Task Force – sent a letter to President Trump, urging him “to adopt a strong, strategic and steady policy toward North Korea.” The letter provides five principles those who signed the letter assert should guide the U.S. strategy toward North Korea, including increasing economic pressure through sanctions, enhancing diplomatic efforts, strengthening relationships with allies in the region, and maintaining U.S. military deterrence and defense efforts. Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16), who joined 67 of his House colleagues in sending the letter, said, “North Korea’s continued development of nuclear arms and refusal to obey U.N. Security Council Resolutions is a very serious cause of concern, and it must be taken seriously. We must be strategic, we must work with our allies, and we must be steadfast in our resolve.” The letter notes that North Korea’s “rapidly advancing nuclear and missile capabilities threaten the United States and our allies,” and that the U.S. can successfully navigate this increasingly critical security situation with a strong and comprehensive strategy. The House Democratic National Security Task Force is co-chaired by Representatives Seth Moulton (MA-6), Stephanie Murphy (FL-7), and Jimmy Panetta (CA-20). The full text of the letter is below and the signed letter can be found here. ______________________________________________________________________________ Dear Mr. President, We write to urge you to adopt a strong, strategic and steady policy toward North Korea, whose rapidly advancing nuclear and missile capabilities threaten the United States and our allies. We acknowledge two fundamental points. First, North Korea’s dangerous and destabilizing actions, in defiance of U.N. Security Council resolutions dating back to 2006, are the root cause of tensions between North Korea and the international community. Nevertheless, we believe your rhetoric in response has been counterproductive, escalating an already-dangerous situation. Second, while North Korea has been described as “the land of lousy options,” we believe the U.S. can maximize the chance of success by charting a careful course that avoids capitulation to, or catastrophic war with, North Korea. In our view, U.S. strategy toward North Korea should be guided by the following principles. Increase Economic Pressure on North Korea Through the Imposition and Effective Enforcement of Sanctions U.S. and international economic sanctions on North Korea should be calibrated to make it harder for North Korea to import the technology and acquire the hard currency necessary to advance its nuclear and missile programs. They should also be tailored to produce sufficient economic hardship, particularly among the regime’s elites, to cause Kim Jong-un to conclude that the cost of these programs outweigh their benefit and—accordingly—to choose negotiation over aggression. While U.S. and U.N. sanctions were recently strengthened, we believe there is room for more serious and sustained economic pressure on North Korea in an effort to change its strategic calculus. While multilateral agreement to impose sanctions requires a significant diplomatic commitment, effective enforcement of sanctions involves even more time and resources. Far more should be done to ensure that other nations, including but not limited to China, are fulfilling their legal obligations. If a country has the will but not the ability to enforce sanctions against North Korea, the U.S. should offer technical or financial assistance. Conversely, if a country possesses the capacity but not the desire to implement sanctions, American officials should make clear to that country that it risks a fundamental breach in our bilateral relationship. The U.S. intelligence community, the Department of the Treasury, and the Department of State should monitor, address and—where appropriate—penalize non-compliance in accordance with U.S. sanctions law. Enhance U.S. Diplomatic Efforts, Especially Crisis Management Channels Tough, principled diplomacy with North Korea is not a concession or sign of weakness. President Reagan negotiated with the Soviet Union at the height of the Cold War. Whether North Korea is prepared to negotiate an enduring and verifiable suspension of its nuclear and missile programs in exchange for sanctions relief is up to Pyongyang. But the United States should always be ready and willing to talk without preconditions. In the interim, the U.S. must establish effective crisis-management channels with North Korea to clarify intentions and minimize the risk of miscalculation. When the U.S. communicates clearly and consistently to an adversary, it makes it less likely that the adversary will intentionally or inadvertently begin a conflict. Strengthen, Don’t Subvert, Alliances in East Asia At his confirmation hearing, Secretary of Defense James Mattis stated: “History is clear: nations with strong allies thrive and those without them wither.” We are concerned that U.S. alliances in East Asia, particularly our security and economic partnership with South Korea, are being mismanaged. After North Korea’s latest nuclear test, we were discouraged to see you accuse South Korean President Moon of “appeasement” toward North Korea, a claim as untrue as it is unhelpful. Furthermore, while we have a range of views on the 2012 U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement, we believe that now is the wrong time for the administration to engage in loose talk about unilateral withdrawal from the agreement. Kim Jong-un seeks to undermine the relationship between the U.S. and South Korea and to cause South Korea to question the credibility of our commitments. We should stand steadfast with our allies, not further Kim’s efforts to divide us. Recognize that Personnel is Policy We are disappointed that, eight months into your tenure, key policymakers needed to craft and carry out U.S. strategy in East Asia are not in place. At the Department of State, you have yet to nominate an individual to serve as Assistant Secretary in the Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs, U.S. Ambassador to South Korea, or Under Secretary for Arms Control and International Security. At the Department of Defense, you have not nominated an individual to serve as Assistant Secretary for Asian and Pacific Security Affairs or appointed an individual to serve as Deputy Assistant Secretary for East Asia. These are self-inflicted wounds. We urge you to swiftly nominate or name qualified individuals to these critical positions. Maintain Deterrence and Defense For nearly 65 years, U.S. leadership, military presence, and engagement with allies has prevented another devastating conflict on the Korean peninsula. While Kim Il-Sung, Kim Jong-Il, and now Kim Jong-un have acted aggressively, each has concluded that a direct attack on the U.S. or our allies would produce unacceptable consequences for the regime. The U.S. must continue to impart this message to North Korea through a variety of means, including by enhancing defensive systems and bolstering defense cooperation and intelligence sharing with South Korea and Japan. Rather than using reckless rhetoric and sending muddled messages to our allies, the U.S. should pursue a comprehensive strategy toward North Korea that consists of economic pressure, strong and steady diplomacy, and credible deterrence and defense. Sincerely, ###
10.03.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) issued the following statement today to encourage recipients of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program to mail their renewal application today to ensure the applications are received by the October 5, 2017 deadline: “When the Administration decided to terminate the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA, last month, the deadline for DACA renewal was set at October 5, 2017. This is two days from today. Many of us in Congress, and at all levels of government across the country, have taken multiple actions to urge the Administration to extend the deadline for DACA renewal. However, it currently seems unlikely that the deadline will be extended, so I am encouraging DREAMers to send in their renewal applications today to help ensure the applications will arrive by the October 5th deadline. “Extending the DACA renewal deadline or similar piecemeal immigration policy will not be enough, however, to fix our broken immigration system or protect our DREAMers in the long term. As I have been saying for years, America’s immigration system is broken, and we must pass bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform to address the very real problems with our current immigration system. I will continue to work with members on both sides of the aisle to provide America with the stable, just, and commonsense immigration policy we so badly need.” ###
09.07.2017	FRESNO, CA – Today Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) announced that two of the State of California’s requests for federal emergency grants to help fight wildfires in Madera and Mariposa counties were approved. Both grants are Fire Management Assistance Grants, which are issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). One grant request is for assistance suppressing the Railroad Fire, which has been burning in Madera and Mariposa counties since August 29, 2017. The second request asks for a grant to help fight the Mission Fire, which has been burning in Madera County since September 3, 2017. The FEMA administrator responsible for approving Fire Management Assistance Grants submitted for the region determined the destruction threatened by each fire would constitute a “major disaster.” “The Railroad Fire and Mission Fire have devastated our Valley communities, and we must do everything we can to suppress these fires and help each other recover from the destruction they have caused,” said Rep. Costa. “This is why I asked Governor Brown­­­ and U.S. Forest Service Chief Tooke to devote every available resource to stopping the spread of these fires, and why I hope to see these FEMA grants used as quickly as possible to suppress them and to assist in the recovery of our local communities.” Congressman Costa has supported legislation to help prevent and suppress wildfires, which are historically both common and highly destructive in California. This year, Rep. Costa cosponsored both the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act (H.R. 2862) and the Electricity Reliability and Forest Protection Act (H. R. 1873). The Electricity Reliability and Forest Protection Act passed in the House of Representatives by a vote of 300 to 118 on June 21, 2017. ###
09.05.2017	FRESNO, CA – Today Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after the Trump Administration terminated the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: “By terminating the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA, the Administration has taken a significant step backwards by threatening to force nearly 800,000 young immigrants from the country they call home. These DREAMers were brought to the United States as young children, and for them, America is their home. They are our neighbors – many of them are students – and they are contributing to our country. In the San Joaquin Valley, we have roughly 1,000 DREAMers attending Fresno State and approximately 600 attending UC Merced. Congress must pass legislation that provides our DREAMers protections similar to those under DACA before these protections are eliminated. I call on the House and Senate leadership to join me and others in a bipartisan effort to pass the BRIDGE Act, which will protect our DREAMers for the next three years. “Yet, the BRIDGE Act is only a temporary measure, and is not a long-term solution. So passing this important legislation will not be enough. Our immigrants should not live in fear of being ripped away from their families and the country they love. Our businesses should not be slow to invest and hire because they are uncertain of their employee pool, and our farmers should not be forced to grow less food because of unstable labor sources. Yet these all occur because Congress has failed in the past to enact comprehensive immigration reform. This has led various presidents – Democratic and Republican presidents alike – to govern our immigration policy through piecemeal measures that often contradict each other. This is not good governance; it is irresponsible and indefensible, and it must end. “As I have been saying for years, we must come together to fix our broken immigration system. This requires that we in Congress enact bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform that provides America with commonsense, just, and stable immigration policy, and that the President use his office to work with Congress to support this effort. Speaker Ryan has expressed hope that Congress will pass immigration reform to provide permanent legislative solutions. I urge him and my fellow members of Congress – from both sides of the aisle – to come together to protect our DREAMers and to pass the comprehensive immigration reform America so badly needs.” ###
08.13.2017	FRESNO, CA – Today Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement about the white supremacist attack that occurred yesterday in Charlottesville, Virginia: “The hatred and violence in Charlottesville yesterday are devastating and unacceptable. “Our thoughts and prayers are with the individuals we lost, those who were injured, and their loved ones. “As Americans, the protests that turned deadly in Charlottesville sadden all of us and should serve as a call to action. Neo-Nazis, white supremacists, and their defining ideas and beliefs are disgusting and are directly opposed to our American values. The individuals who belong to these groups are not American patriots. They are cowards and bigots, and their ideas have been a plague on our country for far too long. “We must condemn actions by white supremacists, Neo-Nazis, the Ku Klux Klan, and all groups who preach hate and advocate violence. It is truly awful that racism and hatred live in the hearts of some in America. We all have a responsibility – as individuals and collectively – to do our part to address racism, other forms of prejudice, and hate. “We must remember that we are far more similar than we are different, and only by standing together will we be able to successfully overcome the challenges we all face together. Although it can be difficult at times, I call on all of us to pause for a moment, reach out to one another, and reverse hate by conveying understanding and solidarity founded on the basis of love and humanity. “In addition, the President, with our nation's justice department, must take firm and decisive action to aggressively go after these hate groups, using all legal means available. These groups' violence is outrageous and illegal, and we cannot allow them to continue to target and attack our fellow Americans. “Lastly, I would like to thank our law enforcement officers for risking their lives yesterday, and every day, to keep us safe.” ###
08.10.2017	SALINAS – Today, Congressman Jimmy Panetta (CA-20), along with House Agriculture Committee Ranking Member Collin Peterson (MN-7) and Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16), hosted an agriculture roundtable session at Hartnell College in Salinas, California. The Congressmen held the roundtable to hear the concerns and priorities of local agriculture producers, farm workers, and nutrition organizations regarding the nation's food policy, including the Farm Bill. Congressman Panetta and Congressman Costa made the below remarks: "The central coast of California provides families across the country with an abundance of fresh and nutritious produce. As the representative of the Salad Bowl of the World, I believe it is critical to share with my colleagues the needs and concerns of our diverse producers, farm workers, anti-hunger advocates, and local nutrition organizations. I thank my colleagues and friends, Ranking Member Peterson and Congressman Costa, for joining me in Salinas. We appreciated hearing from stakeholders on the Central Coast and look forward to taking what we learned back to Washington as we craft the next Farm Bill,” said Congressman Panetta. “One of my highest priorities this Congress is reauthorizing the Farm Bill. This has traditionally been a bipartisan effort in the House Agriculture Committee. It was great to hear our local agriculture leaders and nutrition groups this morning let us know what their priorities are, and I look forward to listening to local voices throughout the region in the roundtables and listening sessions we will be holding in the near future,” said Congressman Costa. The House Committee on Agricultural has been holding similar roundtables and listening sessions across the country in anticipation of the upcoming legislative work on the next Farm Bill. The provisions in the current Farm Bill are due to expire September 30, 2018. # # #
07.31.2017	Washington, DC – The Problem Solvers Caucus, a bipartisan group of representatives working to find a path forward for responsible governance, put forward a proposal today to improve the health care system in the United States. Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) is a member of the caucus. One key component of the proposal focuses on stabilizing the individual health care market to help individuals, families, and small businesses afford high-quality care. The proposal also states the importance of improving patient choice and responsibility, creating incentives for health care providers to lower costs, and giving states more flexibility in their implementation of health care policy. “We know that the Affordable Care Act has its problems, and in order to start fixing them, it is essential that we have predictability in our health care system,” said Congressman Costa. “We also know that the only way to provide real solutions and stable policy is through bipartisan efforts. In the Problems Solvers Caucus, we have come together – Democrats and Republicans – to provide a starting point for serious bipartisan discussions so we can provide the health care system the predictability it needs for all Americans to have stable access to high-quality, affordable health care.” The Problem Solvers Caucus wants its proposal to serve as the beginning of a bipartisan effort to address the weaknesses in the Affordable Care Act, focusing on areas where members of the caucus believe they can find a broader consensus to improve America’s health care system. ###
07.28.2017	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) introduced the Results Through Innovation Act of 2017 into the House of Representatives. If enacted, the legislation would bolster the federal funding for employment and training programs for individuals receiving Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits. SNAP employment and training programs (E & T) aim at helping SNAP recipients secure gainful employment through work-related education, job training, and job advancement classes so they can ultimately become self-sufficient. “For years I have been following how pairing education and training programs with the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program has transformed people’s lives in the San Joaquin Valley, and we have seen the success of programs that focus on helping individuals find long-term employment and start real careers,” Rep. Costa said. “These types of programs help individuals raise themselves out of poverty and become self-reliant, which is good for the individuals, good for their families, good for our communities, and good for our nation.” The 2014 Farm Bill authorized funding for the development, implementation, and evaluation of ten SNAP E & T pilot projects for three years in order to learn how to make SNAP E & T programs as effective as possible. One of these pilot projects built on existing programs at the Fresno Bridge Academy in Fresno, California, an organization that has been helping individuals find long-term employment and become self-reliant since 2010. “For seven years now, we have demonstrated at the Fresno Bridge Academy that we can help SNAP beneficiaries lift themselves out of poverty, and we can do so while earning very positive returns for taxpayers,” said Pete Weber, Founder and Chair of the California Bridge Academies. “Congressman Costa’s bill will help millions of Americans lift themselves out of poverty while saving taxpayers billions of dollars in outlays for public assistance.” The funding for the E & T pilot projects authorized in the 2014 Farm Bill ends in 2018, while funds for the grant program created in the Results Through Innovation Act of 2017 would become available in 2019. To help ensure grants fund SNAP E & T programs that are as efficient and successful as possible, the Results Through Innovation Act of 2017 states the E & T projects given grants should meet certain requirements. These requirements include increasing the short-term and long-term employment as well as income earnings for households receiving SNAP benefits, supporting a range of rural and urban areas, and providing support services to individuals to help enable them to participate in the program, such as transportation reimbursement and childcare. ###
07.28.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16), co-chair of the fiscally-responsible Blue Dog Coalition, released the following statement about the U.S. Senate’s early morning vote to defeat the passage of the Health Care Freedom Act, legislation to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA): “By not passing the Health Care Freedom Act, the Senate has provided us with an opportunity to get back to the business of governing, and governing well. As I have said time and time again, the Affordable Care Act needs work, but the only way to fix the ACA is through real and workable bipartisan solutions. This means we must listen to experts in the field to identify the health care problems Americans face in their daily lives, the causes of these problems, and possible answers, and then we must work together – Democrats and Republicans – to construct a well-founded and serious policy solution. We know Congress can work this way. We saw it last December when the WIIN Act became law, and we saw it this week in the House of Representatives with the passage of the Forever GI Bill. “We must stop the childish game of vengeful one-upmanship that has been consuming Washington for decades now, and start serious policy deliberation. I commend Senators Collins, Murkowski, and McCain for having the courage to break with their party on this highly-partisan issue, and I thank them for giving us the chance to govern well and get this right. “As a member of the Problem Solvers Caucus, a bipartisan group of representatives working to find a path forward for responsible governance, I have been part of an ongoing bipartisan effort to find real solutions for the problems with our current health care system. The next version of health care legislation must, at a minimum, do the following four things. First, it must create a permanent reinsurance program. Second, it must reduce copays and deductibles for low-income Americans by properly funding cost-sharing reduction payments. Third, it must promote coverage and ensure that everyone pays their fair share. And fourth, it must create more affordable options so all Americans have access to high-quality health care. “The next piece of health care legislation that comes before Congress should contain these four components, and it must – it must – be a bipartisan effort. Only by joining together will we be able to make real and lasting improvements to our health care system. This is the good governance the American people want and deserve.” ###
07.26.2017	Washington, DC – Today the House Committee on Agriculture held a hearing regarding protecting and promoting the agriculture sector during the anticipated renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement, or NAFTA. NAFTA is an economic and trade agreement between the United States, Canada, and Mexico, and the value of U.S. agricultural trade has increased dramatically since the agreement took effect in 1994. As a member of the House Committee on Agriculture, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) focused his time at the hearing on issues critical for the agriculture sector in the San Joaquin Valley, namely trade, labor, and immigration. “California leads the country in agricultural revenue, and our producers are twice as reliant on foreign trade as the rest of the United States,” said Congressman Costa. “NAFTA partners – Mexico and Canada – account for 22% of California’s agricultural export. In 2015, for that year, Mexico accounted for $3.5 billion in agricultural trade, Canada $1.1 billion. And I just think it’s inaccurate to say that when you look over the last 20 years, in any objective criteria that you measure it by, that it’s been a disaster. It hasn’t.” Rep. Costa also asked the panel of experts testifying before the committee, “Is there any chance that a renegotiated agreement could lead to improved conditions for migrant agricultural workers – [of] which we are in short supply in the United States – or is it more likely that the labor force will relocate to Mexico if the agreement boosts economic productivity there?” The panel responded with uncomfortable laughter, and one expert muttered, “I don’t know.” Tom Vilsack, former Secretary of the USDA who represented the dairy industry during the hearing, then said the U.S.’s broken immigration system is impacting and affecting dairy production. Costa replied, “It’s affecting all of agriculture.” Congressman Costa ended his questioning with, “Who was the big winner, in your opinion, when we walked away from TPP?” There was a consensus on the panel that China won, with Vilsack stating that the European Union also won with regards to dairy products. The agricultural products traded the most among NAFTA countries include meat and dairy products as well as fruits, tree nuts, and vegetables. These are the most produced agricultural commodities in the San Joaquin Valley and central to the area’s economy. ###
07.25.2017	Washington, DC – Yesterday the U.S. House of Representatives passed H. R. 3218, the Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017. The legislation is the largest update to the GI Bill since the passage of the Post-9/11 GI Bill in 2008, making extensive changes to the education benefits provisions. The bill is referred to as the “Forever GI Bill” due to its elimination of the 15 year deadline by which veterans must use their education benefits. In addition to allowing veterans access to their GI education benefits for life, the Forever GI Bill extends benefits granted under the Post-9/11 GI Bill to all Purple Heart recipients and to reservists and those in the national guard who served next to active duty troops, but who themselves were not technically active duty troops. The legislation also increases the amount dependents of veterans can receive in education benefits, which is one of the first significant increases to this benefit in decades. “Our servicemen, servicewomen, and their families sacrifice so much to keep us safe and to protect our freedom, we must do everything we can to honor their sacrifice and commitment,” said Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16), who cosponsored the legislation. “Yesterday the House of Representatives showed us how Congress can and should function, foregoing political posturing and coming together to pass well-crafted, bipartisan legislation. I hope to see the Forever GI bill pass through the U.S. Senate and be signed into law so our veterans and their families can get the benefits they deserve.” The Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017 has strong bipartisan support in the House of Representatives, including 121 cosponsors from both sides of the aisle. The bill passed by a unanimous voice vote in the House Committee on Veterans Affairs on July 19th. It is supported by over 25 veterans service organizations and higher education organizations, including Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States (VFW), The American Legion, Vietnam Veterans of America (VVA), Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA), and Student Veterans of America (SVA). ###
07.12.2017	Washington, DC – Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed H. R. 23, the Gaining Responsibility on Water Act of 2017, by a vote of 230 to 190. The legislation, sponsored by Rep. David Valadao (CA-21), aims at increasing the amount, quality, and reliability of water available to communities in the Central Valley of California. A large portion of the bill focuses on modifying policies regarding the operations of the Central Valley Project and State Water Project and the implementation of the San Joaquin River Settlement. Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) was the only Democrat to cosponsor the Gaining Responsibility on Water Act of 2017, although he raised concerns regarding specific provisions contained within the legislation. “I support moving this legislation through the House as an important first step for addressing California’s broken water system,” Congressman Costa stated. “However, improvements to this bill need to be made if it is going to provide the long-term solutions we so badly need in the San Joaquin Valley and other parts of California. We must protect the Grasslands Ecological Area, an area that contributes nearly $73,000,000 to Merced County’s economy, and we cannot allow drastic cuts to the Central Valley Project’s Restoration Fund as currently proposed in the bill.” In addition to cosponsoring the Gaining Responsibility on Water Act of 2017, Costa proposed two amendments to strengthen the bill coming out of the House, both of which also passed today. The first amendment authorizes a study for increasing the amount of mountain runoff water captured by Central Valley Project reservoirs, and the second authorizes a study to evaluate the natural groundwater system in California to identify areas with the greatest recharge potential. Rep. Costa explained, “In order to fix California’s water system, we must approach the issue from multiple angles, which includes using more effectively the resources and tools we already have, such as forest management, watershed restoration, increased surface and subsurface storage, and increased groundwater recharge. Costa continued, “After decades of working to secure water for California’s Central Valley, I can say with certainty that the only way we are going to continue to make progress towards a long-term solution here is by working together – All of us: both parties, both chambers. I stand ready to work with my fellow members of Congress in the House and Senate to improve this bill so we can get a bipartisan solution signed into law.” Congressman Costa has been working on California water issues since his time in the California State Legislature, where he was first elected in 1978. Costa serves on the Water, Power, and Oceans Subcommittee of the House Committee on Natural Resources, and he was a key player in getting the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act (WIIN Act) passed in the House of Representatives in December 2016. ###
06.23.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – The United States House of Representatives passed the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act on Thursday afternoon. The bill focuses on career and technical education (CTE) programs, funding grants for these programs through fiscal year 2023. In addition to other provisions, the legislation calls for more input from teachers and school administrators at the state and local level in the development of these programs, and it promotes an increased collaboration with industry representatives when designing programs to train students in the industry sector. “By supporting and improving career and technical education programs, this legislation supports and improves the chances of so many of our young people to find gainful employment and to develop a career,” said Rep. Costa, a longtime advocate of career and technical education programs. “We have seen these programs benefit our students across the country, and these programs have been especially critical in increasing opportunity and growth in our rural and underserved communities. In our San Joaquin Valley, for example, Madera Unified School District has twenty-two – twenty-two – career pathways which include on-the-job training and education in multiple industry sectors. We have also heard widespread support for these programs from companies and organizations across numerous industry sectors. This legislation does more than just strengthen our educational programs; It also strengthens our communities, now and into the future. I hope to see this bill find similar bipartisan support in the Senate, and for the President to sign it into law.” Coming from both sides of the aisle, 40 House members cosponsored the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century. The legislation has received support from both educational and industry organizations from various sectors, ranging from construction, to information and computing technologies, to engineers. The bill will now go to the Senate for consideration. If enacted, the law will take effect on July 1, 2018. ###
06.22.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) urged the United States House of Representatives to pass the Electricity Reliability and Forest Protection Act on Wednesday. Shortly thereafter, the House approved the legislation by a vote of 300 to 118. The bill aims at reducing wildfires by streamlining the process for managing trees and vegetation growing near power lines and electric distribution lines. The new process proposed in the Electricity Reliability and Forest Protection Act will promote “federal consistency, accountability, and timely decision-making,” according to the House Natural Resources Committee’s report. Rep. Costa, who is an original cosponsor of the bill, said shortly after the House vote, “Wildfires can be utterly devastating to surrounding communities, as we have seen all too well in our California mountains recently. Clearly, we must do whatever we can to prevent wildfires and reduce the damage of the wildfires that do occur, and one logical way to do this is to remove the trees and other plants that can easily spark wildfires when they come in contact with power lines. This legislation expedites the process for removing the trees that have a high chance of coming in contact with power lines, so it is a straightforward, commonsense way to help prevent wildfires. I hope to see the bipartisan support for this bill continue in the Senate and for the President to sign it into law.” The Electricity Reliability and Forest Protection Act was approved by the House Natural Resources Committee on April 27th, with both Democratic and Republican committee members supporting the bill. The legislation has been sent to the United States Senate for Senate consideration. ###
06.21.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) attended the 2017 Portuguese Economic Forum on Tuesday. The forum, which took place in New York City, explored ways to secure and strengthen Portugal’s economy as a key player in both regional and global economic systems. Rep. Costa discussed transatlantic alliances with the European Union’s Ambassador to the United Nations, João Vale de Almeida, before participating in a larger panel roundtable that focused more closely on the Portuguese-US economic relationship. “It was an honor to be invited to this year’s Portuguese Economic Forum,” Costa said. “This is an excellent opportunity to discuss ways to facilitate mutual investment between the United States and Portugal. It is important that we strengthen the economic and political ties between the US and Portugal, one of our oldest allies.” The Portugal-US Chamber of Commerce and AICEP Portugal Global organized the annual event this year. The morning’s presentations revolved around staying abreast of evolving and changing markets, spotlighting topics such as innovation, market drivers, and changing political dynamics. ###
06.16.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) issued the following statement after the Trump administration announced on June 15th that it will continue the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program and end the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans (DAPA) program, two immigration programs instituted under the Obama administration: “Although I am pleased to hear that DACA will continue, revoking DAPA is unacceptable and a setback to our immigrant families in the Valley and across the United States. At the crux of both DACA and DAPA is keeping families together, which is absolutely crucial for the well-being of our children, our communities, and our nation. Splitting families apart when we can keep them together is immoral and unjust. Terminating DAPA leaves immigrant families even more vulnerable to this injustice, as DAPA, if implemented, could have allowed parents of American citizens and legal permanent residents to legally live and work in the United States. “As I have been saying for years, America’s immigration system is broken, and we must fix it. However, what the Administration’s decision to continue DACA and end DAPA also shows us is that the uncertainty surrounding America’s immigration policy is simply outrageous. Our immigrant families should not live in fear of being ripped apart because we cannot pass comprehensive immigration reform. We must come together to enact bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform that protects both our citizens and our immigrant communities.” ###
06.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) denounced the shooting that occurred this morning during the Republican congressional baseball team’s practice. Rep. Costa referred to the incident as a “cowardly attack” and released the following statement: “It is a sad day in our nation’s capital. We all learned early this morning of the horrific shooting that took place while Republican members of Congress and staff practiced for the annual bipartisan congressional baseball game to be played tomorrow night. Our thoughts and prayers are with Congressman Scalise, congressional staff member Zack Barth, lobbyist and former staffer Matt Mika, and the two police officers, Krystal Griner and David Bailey, who were wounded as a result of this horrendous act of violence. “The congressional baseball game at National’s Park raises tens of thousands of dollars for charitable organizations each year, and has been an annual tradition for decades. Just as importantly, it creates opportunities for bipartisan engagement for members of Congress and staff. So, the game must go on. Regardless of our differences and disagreements, we are one House. And, as a country, we are one nation. As our nation comes together in solidarity today, we are reminded of how vulnerable we all are to those who wish harm to our American way of life. We must peacefully unite in strength in the face of this hatred.” ###
06.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives passed S. 1094, the Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017, by a vote of 368 to 55 on Tuesday. The bill, which passed in the U.S. Senate by a voice vote earlier this month, uses two different approaches to strengthen the ability of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to hold department employees accountable when their misconduct, negligence, or incompetence jeopardizes the well-being of veterans. The first general approach focuses on methods for disciplining VA employees for misconduct or failure to perform their job, and the second on protecting employees from retaliation if they report the misconduct of other employees. S. 1094 has similar goals to the VA Accountability First Act of 2017, a bill that passed in the House on March 16th but was never considered by the Senate. However, the Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017, as passed by both the House and Senate, directly addresses some of the concerns regarding how the House’s bill modifies protections for the VA’s labor force. The Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017 is supported by numerous veterans and military organizations, including the American Legion, the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, the Military Officers Association of America, and the Reserve Officers Association. Secretary of Veterans Affairs David J. Shulkin also supports the legislation, stating, “It’s common sense – we need to hold our employees accountable for their actions if they violate the public trust, and at the same time protect whistleblowers from retaliation. This legislation will help us do just that.” Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) voted in favor of the bill and said shortly after it passed in the House of Representatives, “Our servicemen, servicewomen, and their families sacrifice so much for our nation. They deserve the best we can provide, which means we must make dramatic improvements to veterans programs, VA facilities, and the process veterans and their families go through to gain access to their benefits. While this may not be the bill that I would have drafted, addressing how the Department of Veterans Affairs is run is an important part of ensuring that our veterans and their families get what they need and what they have earned. Although more must be done for our veterans and their families, I am pleased to see this bill pass through both chambers of Congress with overwhelming bipartisan support. Supporting our veterans, active servicemen and servicewomen, and military families is one of our highest duties, both in Congress and throughout our nation.” The bill passed in identical form in both congressional chambers and is being sent to the President to sign. ###
06.09.2017	FRESNO, CA – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement about former FBI Director James Comey’s June 8th testimony before the U.S. Senate Intelligence Committee: “Yesterday’s testimony by former FBI Director James Comey, I believe speaks for itself. “It is of utmost importance to our democracy that we uncover the extent of Russia’s involvement in America’s election process last year. Fair and transparent elections are fundamental to our democracy, and protecting them from outside interference is paramount. Yesterday’s U.S. Senate Intelligence Committee hearing, as well as the investigation being conducted by Robert Mueller, are critical to finding this information. “I believe former FBI Director Comey’s testimony was credible. The Russians for years have been covertly and overtly disrupting European elections, and last year they successfully disrupted our elections. “The multiple ongoing investigations must continue, and we must follow the evidence wherever it leads in order to discover the facts surrounding Russia’s involvement in our elections. Ultimately, we must protect our election process from Russian involvement – or any other country – which means we must find out what happened during last year’s election, regardless of who was involved. Preventing foreign interference in our elections is critical to ensuring that Americans believe their vote counts. “That’s why I have maintained for months that, in addition to the current investigations, we need to have an independent commission similar to the 9/11 investigatory commission to get to the bottom of this. The commission should be bipartisan and made up of respected Americans whose credibility is beyond question. In the commission’s final report, I would expect recommendations to Congress and state legislatures that ensures, American elections can never be tampered with again.” ###
06.09.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, Representative Jim Costa (CA-16) joined Representatives Mike Simpson (ID-2) and Kurt Schrader (OR-5) to introduce the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act of 2017. The legislation addresses the budgeting process for fighting wildfires, aiming at fixing the escalating costs of wildfire suppression crowding out funding for forest management. Currently, Congress provides the Forest Service and other land management agencies funds to suppress wildfires based on the average cost for fighting these fires over the past ten years. When the costs for suppressing wildfires exceed the amount budgeted, the agencies must pay for firefighting with money allocated for other purposes. This budgetary process within the agencies is referred to as “fire borrowing.” Fire borrowing ultimately means that the Forest Service and other land management agencies have fewer resources for forest maintenance, the removal of hazardous fuels, and other practices that prevent fires from sparking. The Wildfire Disaster Funding Act would end fire borrowing by changing the budget process for wildfire suppression. Under the act, once the funds budgeted for wildfire suppression have been exhausted, continuing to fight wildfires will be paid for like other natural disasters. As a result, the Forest Service and other land management agencies can use the resources allocated for maintenance and other practices that prevent wildfires for their intended preventative purposes. “Recent wildfires have caused incredible hardship to California’s mountain communities,” said Rep. Costa. “What’s more, it’s estimated that there are over 100 million dead trees in California’s forests right now. This is unprecedented, and is a result of a combination of the effects of a 5-year long drought and an increasing pace of bark beetle infestation. Our forest managers, as hard as they have tried, simply cannot do their jobs effectively while arcane Congressional budget rules divert funds needed for active management of our forests to combatting wildfires. It’s time to treat wildfires like the natural disaster they are and stop the never-ending cycle of taking money needed for forest management. This legislation will do exactly that, in a commonsense way, and I urge Congress to bring this to the President’s desk as rapidly as possible.” The Wildfire Disaster Funding Act of 2017 has 16 original cosponsors, including Congressman Costa, and has strong bipartisan support. Similar legislation was also introduced in the 113th and 114th Congresses, and Rep. Costa cosponsored both of those bills as well. ###
06.09.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX), along with Congressman Steve Cohen (D-TN), introduced H.R. 2829, “Jane’s Law.” This bipartisan legislation works to close loopholes that allow individuals to cross state lines after a divorce or separation proceeding in order to avoid paying court-ordered distributions. The bill’s namesake, Jane Maharam, knew the realities of this all too well. Her husband of 31 years, Robert Maharam, raided their New York home and stole marital assets like money, investments, and furnishings. After a 15-year court battle, the court ordered that Robert return millions of dollars to Jane. However, instead of returning the assets, Robert fled across state lines. As long as he did not return to New York, Jane would never see any of what he owed her because the warrant for Robert’s arrest could not be enforced over state lines. “Jane Maharam was left with nothing when her husband snuck off into the night, forcing her to rely on public assistance,” said Congressman Ted Poe. “There are many spouses, like Jane, who find themselves victims of such injustice. Jane’s Law takes a much-needed step forward providing Federal enforcement to retrieve stolen marital property, illegally taken across state lines. No longer will lowlifes be allowed to outrun the law. Much like the ways child support legislation works, under Jane’s Law, fleeing to avoid payment is a federal crime. It is time to put a stop to this shameful practice.” “Too many Americans find themselves in the same shoes Jane Maharam was in more than two decades ago,” said Congressman Cohen. “By fleeing the state, her ex-husband escaped his legal responsibilities and the courts were unable to enforce the law. It is time we close that loophole and ensure women in similar situations get the justice they deserve.” Co-Chairman of the Victims’ Rights Caucus, Congressman Jim Costa (D-CA) also co-sponsored the legislation. “Ex-spouses who intentionally and deliberately flee their state to evade payment are breaking the law, plain and simple,” said Congressman Costa. “We cannot let these offenders evade justice as well. Jane’s Law is an important step in dismantling the wall of legal technicalities offenders have been hiding behind for years.” ###
06.08.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – With a unanimous 397 to 0 vote on Tuesday, the United States House of Representatives passed H. Res. 354. Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) cosponsored the resolution, which condemns last month’s violent beating of peaceful demonstrators by members of Turkish President Erdoğan’s security force and both calls for the security guards to be brought to justice and for measures to be taken to prevent similar future occurrences. Rep. Costa said of H. Res. 354 and its passage, “This resolution, and the unanimous vote in the House of Representatives in support of passing this resolution, are significant statements that we condemn and simply will not tolerate the illegal and despicable violence perpetrated against peaceful demonstrators by the Turkish guards on May 16th. I am proud to cosponsor such an important resolution, and I will continue to advocate for holding the guards accountable and for measures that will ensure such vile behavior does not happen again.” Congressman Costa continued, “The Turkish guards’ actions were outrageous, illegal, and revolting. I, and many of my colleagues, have called on the President to take appropriate diplomatic and legal action against those involved. The fact that the resolution passed the House with a unanimous vote – not a single member voted against the resolution – makes me hopeful that the President will have overwhelming bipartisan support from Congress if he decides to act.” Prior to Tuesday’s vote on H. Res. 354, the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats held a hearing on the incident. The full House Foreign Affairs Committee passed H. Res. 354 on May 25th. A similar resolution was introduced in the Senate, S. Res. 180, on May 25th. It was referred to the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, where it currently is waiting committee consideration. ###
05.25.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Wednesday, the House of Representatives passed H. R. 624, the Social Security Fraud Prevention Act of 2017, which Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) cosponsored. Congressman Costa spoke on the House floor before members voted on the bill, urging his colleagues to support the legislation. Rep. Costa released the following statement after the bill passed by a voice vote: “I am pleased the Social Security Fraud Prevention Act passed the House today. If it becomes law, this legislation will enact measures to help protect Americans – especially children, veterans, and seniors – from identity theft and fraud. Simply put, the bill requires the federal government be stricter with when and how it includes social security numbers on documents it mails to individuals. Although there is no silver bullet to stopping identity theft, this measure is a commonsense way to reduce identity theft and resulting fraud. And we must reduce it. An estimated 13 million Americans experienced financial identity theft in 2014, resulting in $16 billion lost to fraud. “Also very important here is our need to protect Americans’ Social Security. Social Security is a promise made to those who have worked to contribute to the system, and provides dignity and additional security for hardworking Americans during their golden years. As a result, Congress must do what it can to reduce strains on the program, particularly from fraud and theft. “This legislation is a bipartisan effort to help protect Americans and our Social Security program from fraud and theft. I hope to see the Senate take up the bill on a bipartisan basis, and then see it signed into law.” Now that the Social Security Fraud Prevention Act of 2017 has passed in the House of Representatives, it will be sent to the Senate where Senators can debate, amend, and ultimately vote on the bill. If the legislation passes in both chambers of Congress, it will be sent to the President for him to sign into law. ###
05.25.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement in reaction to the Congressional Budget Office’s scoring of the American Health Care Act that passed the House of Representatives on May 4th: “As I have said before, the American Health Care Act is a bad bill, and it was made even worse by the amendments Republicans added before it barely passed the House along party lines. If passed by the Senate and signed into law in its current form, 23 million Americans will lose their health care coverage, many of them seniors, low-income individuals and families, and veterans. In the San Joaquin Valley, the act will harm hundreds of thousands of our friends and neighbors through drastic cuts to Medi-Cal. Today’s Congressional Budget Office’s score affirms just how toxic this bill will be if it becomes law. “Although the Affordable Care Act is not perfect, the American Health Care Act as passed by the House three weeks ago is not the answer. We need to work together on a bipartisan basis to find real solutions to the problems in the ACA, solutions which will increase access to quality and affordable health care coverage for all Americans. The American Health Care Act will do just the opposite, as made clear by today’s Congressional Budget Office score. “Again, I hope the Senate takes seriously the damage this bill would have on our country’s health care system, and either oppose the bill or change it substantially. We simply cannot allow our nation’s health care policy to be another partisan battlefield. We must put the health of our citizens and our country first.” ###
05.25.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Wednesday, the House of Representatives passed H. R. 953, the Reducing Regulatory Burdens Act of 2017. Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) cosponsored the legislation and urged his colleagues to support the measure on the House floor before the final vote was taken. Rep. Costa released the following statement after the bill passed 256 to 165: “This is commonsense legislation, and I am happy to see it pass the House. It will eliminate the requirement of getting two permits for the same pesticide application. Not only will this streamline the regulatory process for our farmers – getting rid of the unnecessary second permits and the paperwork that comes with them – but it will also save people money, as some of these permits can cost over $150,000. Government regulations need to serve Americans, not unnecessarily burden them. “This bill is an example of what we can do when we come together on a bipartisan basis to solve the daily problems facing Americans. Redundancy in government regulations is a very real challenge facing our farmers and small business owners in the Valley, and across our country. We came together today to begin to address this problem. We must continue these bipartisan efforts if we want to see further changes to regulatory policy, changes that make our regulations appropriate and effective.” After passing in the House of Representatives today, the Reducing Regulatory Burdens Act of 2017 will be sent to the Senate where Senators can debate, amend, and ultimately vote on the bill. If the legislation passes in both chambers of Congress, it will be sent to the President for him to sign into law. ###
05.24.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement in reaction to President Donald Trump’s proposed budget: “The President’s budget, if adopted by Congress, would do great harm to our Valley, to California, and to our nation. Since I was first elected, I have called for a balanced budget that reduces our nation’s unsustainable debt and provides opportunities to advance the economic and social well-being of all Americans. This budget proposal simply fails that test. “This budget uses a combination of unrealistic growth assumptions and harmful cuts to programs for our most vulnerable citizens to increase military spending and finance a tax cut that primarily benefits the wealthy. It decreases investments in our nation’s future, our health care system, and our education system. Additionally, this budget slashes funding for rural America, and it decimates the farm safety net at a time when our rural communities can least afford it. “We need a long-term, comprehensive plan for balancing our budget, but the plan must ensure that all Americans are given the opportunity to build a healthy and successful life for themselves and their families.” ###
05.18.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after Robert S. Mueller III was named special counsel for the investigation of Russian involvement in the 2016 US election: “The appointment of a special counsel is a step in the right direction towards finding out the extent to which Russia meddled in our elections. We must never allow Russia – or any other country – to influence our elections. Protecting our elections from foreign interference is fundamental to preserving trust in our democratic system. This is not a Democratic or Republican issue; this is an American issue. “I reaffirm my call for an independent commission to also investigate Russia’s involvement in our election, and I will continue to push for a commission. It is imperative that we investigate and uncover the full extent of Russia’s involvement in our elections, so we can ensure that it will never happen again.” ###
05.18.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement regarding members of Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan’s security force attacking demonstrators outside of the Turkish ambassador’s residence in Washington, DC: “Given Turkey’s movement towards an authoritarian government, President Erdoğan’s visit with the President in the West Wing is unsettling. President Erdoğan’s recent elimination of individual freedoms and jailing members of the press should not be rewarded by a visit to the Oval Office. “To add injury to insult, it appears that a contingent of President Erdoğan’s security team unilaterally took violent action against peaceful demonstrators who were raising awareness of Turkey’s violations of human rights. The Turkish security guards clearly attacked the Armenian, Kurdish, Yezidi, and other human rights demonstrators, sending nine to the hospital. “Sadly, it appears that history may be repeating itself. Many of us in recent weeks have seen the movie “The Promise,” which is an accurate historical portrayal of the Armenian genocide that took place beginning in 1915 at the hands of the Ottoman Empire. In the movie, we witnessed the beginnings of these acts of atrocity with the depiction of young, Turkish men beating innocent people. As we know, modern-day Turkey has been unwilling as a country to acknowledge the genocide ever happened. We cannot allow Tuesday’s violent and illegal behavior by the Turkish security guards to go unaddressed. “The actions of the Turkish security guards are outrageous, and I condemn them. They violate both American law and deeply-held American values. The Turkish security guards must be held accountable. “Our American President should take appropriate diplomatic and legal action against these Turkish thugs for their violence towards the Armenian, Kurdish, Yezidi, and other human rights demonstrators. If he does so, I believe he will find overwhelming bipartisan support in the US Congress.” ###
05.17.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement about the reports that President Donald Trump asked former FBI Director James Comey to end an FBI investigation of Michael Flynn: “The reports that the President asked former FBI Director James Comey to stop the bureau’s investigation of Michael Flynn are deeply disturbing. If true, it would appear the President has abused his executive power and his actions could possibly lead to the obstruction of justice. “Even before these reports, the President’s very real statements, actions, and tweets have cast a dark shadow of suspicion on FBI investigations related to Russia. “As I have been saying for months, an independent commission should be named to investigate and determine the extent Russia influenced our election process. We need a full investigation of Russia’s involvement in our elections, and there can be no doubt regarding the integrity of the investigation. Americans cannot stand for anything less.” ###
05.09.2017	MERCED, CA - Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) and the Merced County Arts Council hosted an awards ceremony for Merced County high school students who participated in the 2017 Congressional Art Competition. 34 students from El Capitan High School, Merced High School, Chowchilla High School, Los Banos High School, Pacheco High School, and Atwater High School submitted original artwork for consideration. “The Congressional Art Competition provides an opportunity for high school students to exercise their creativity and get engaged in the arts,” said Rep. Costa. “I am proud of this year’s winner, Atwater High School student, Daniela Ornelas, and all the students who submitted artwork in the Congressional Art Competition to share their artistic talent with our community.” Daniela’s artwork will hang in the Cannon Tunnel in the United States Capitol building. The second and third place winners’ artwork will hang in Congressman Costa’s district offices. "We have some amazing young talent here in Merced,” said Colton Dennis, Executive Director of the Merced County Arts Council. “They show us something unique, beautiful, and thoughtful through their art! I'm so happy that Congress has this art competition to highlight the best in our student artists." Thousands of high school students across the nation are honored for their creative talents by the annual Congressional Art Competition, which first began in 1982. Local competitions are voluntarily hosted by Members of Congress in their home districts, and Congressman Costa enjoys hosting the Congressional Art Competition every year. In June, the winning artwork is sent to Washington, where it hangs in the Cannon Tunnel to be viewed by the millions who visit the Capitol each year. Winners are also invited to the Capitol for a ribbon-cutting ceremony and congressional reception. ###
05.09.2017	FRESNO, CA - Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after President Donald Trump dismissed FBI Director James Comey on the recommendation of Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein: “I find the President's decision to fire Director James Comey today deeply troubling. “The Federal Bureau of Investigation is in the middle of a critical investigation to determine the extent of Russia's attempt to disrupt U.S. elections last year, as they have been negatively influencing democratic elections in recent years. Regardless of one’s political party affiliation, I believe all Americans agree that Russia – or any other country – should not be meddling in our elections. We must investigate fully Russia’s involvement in our election process, regardless of where the evidence leads. “Months ago I stated that an independent commission should be named to investigate and determine the extent Russia influenced our election process, like we did during the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks on the United States. As we begin the process of appointing and confirming a new FBI director, I feel more strongly than ever that we need an independent commission to get to the bottom of this and ensure that no country in the future will ever affect U.S. elections.” ###
05.04.2017	Washington, DC - Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after the United States House of Representatives passed H.R. 1628, the American Health Care Act (AHCA). The legislation passed on a vote of 217 to 213. The AHCA makes significant changes to our nation’s health care system. “Congressional Republican leaders and the Trump Administration have spent several weeks negotiating, and the end result of those negotiations made a disastrous health care bill even worse,” said Rep. Costa. “The American people have demanded solutions that improve their health care outcomes from Congress, and this legislation fails to meet that test. If the American Health Care Act is enacted into law, then millions of Americans, including many of our friends and neighbors in the San Joaquin Valley, will either see their health care costs rise substantially or they will completely lose their coverage. Unconscionably, this legislation will also reduce the health care options available to our nation’s veterans, betraying our nation’s heroes after they have served our country.” On March 24, the U.S. House of Representatives was scheduled to vote on the American Health Care Act, but due to lack of support from Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle, Republican leadership was forced to pull the legislation from the House floor. Costa continued, “The fact is that hundreds of thousands of Valley residents have gained health care coverage, and the uninsured rate in my district alone has been cut in half due to the implementation of the Affordable Care Act. The ACA is not perfect, and I’ve always been clear in saying that the law needs to be fixed, but the American Health Care Act, in its current form, is not the solution. “We must come together to find a bipartisan way to improve our health care system. I have been saying this for years, and I believe it now as much as ever. Only by working across the aisle, Republicans and Democrats together, can we address the challenges with our health care system to provide Americans – all Americans – access to quality and affordable health care coverage. “I sincerely hope that our U.S. Senators take a serious look at how this legislation would negatively impact our country’s health care system and either substantially change, or simply oppose, this bill. It is time to stop this needless partisan bickering and make the changes necessary in our health care system to improve health care outcomes and reduce costs for all Americans.” Since the implementation of the Affordable Care Act, the percentage of uninsured individuals living in California’s 16th Congressional District has gone from 22% to 11%. Over 140,000 of Rep. Costa’s constituents have gained health care coverage since the ACA’s implementation. The American Health Care Act would cut Medicaid spending by $880 billion. It gives states the option to obtain a waiver allowing insurance providers to no longer cover essential health benefits and charge those with pre-existing conditions more. Essential health benefits include maternity care, emergency services, hospitalization, prescription drugs, preventative services, pediatric services, and outpatient care. ###
05.03.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 244, the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2017. “Funding the government so it can fulfill its promises to the American people is one of Congress’s most basic responsibilities. This legislation is a bipartisan compromise that provides vital funding for water and transportation infrastructure, veterans services, education, and community safety through the end of September 2017. This funding creates more certainty for our Valley’s families and business owners, diversifies California’s water supply, increases public safety and provides more opportunities to plan for the near-term future. However, this legislation is not a long-term solution to put our country on a more sustainable fiscal path. It’s been over four years since Congress has passed a bill directing longer-term spending, which creates uncertainty for families and businesses and impacts their ability to plan for the future. Congress cannot continue this irresponsible governance. We must come together and have bipartisan negotiations to pass a long-term budget bill later this year. “This legislation has wins for the Valley, including a critical investment to update and build California water projects. It's the funding we need to build water storage above and below ground. The bill also provides vital dollars for job training and community development in regions like the San Joaquin Valley. Furthermore, it does not provide wasteful spending to build a wall on the U.S.-Mexico border.” In April 2017, Costa was a lead author on a letter to the U.S. House Committee on Appropriations requesting that funding be provided for the California and west-wide drought-related authorizations included in Subtitle J of last year’s Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act (WINN Act). Funding highlights of the spending bill include: $90 million for California water projects. $481.5 million for the Violence Against Women programs. $403 million for Byrne Justice Assistance Grants. $248 million for community development in underserved areas. $1.7 billion for Job Corps. $279 million for Veterans Employment and Training Service. $51 million to help provide housing for homeless and low-income veterans and $43 million in new resources to target assistance to homeless youth. $1.5 million for Community Health Centers, with at least $50 million dedicated to expand mental health services and $50 million to prevent and treat opioid abuse. $300 million for freestanding children’s hospitals to use to train doctors, for research, and to care for vulnerable and underserved children. $1.38 billion for medical research that helps our warfighters and veterans as well as their families and all Americans. $43.2 billion for the Federal-Aid Highway program, which provides grants to state and local governments for investments in roads, bridges and public transit systems. ###
04.27.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed S. 496 - “To repeal the rule issued by the Federal Highway Administration and the Federal Transit Administration entitled “Metropolitan Planning Organization Coordination and Planning Area Reform.” The legislation would help local associations like the Merced County Association of Governments (MCAG) with their ability to plan and implement regional projects and preserve local control in transportation project planning and funding. Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) is an original co-cosponsor of similar House legislation, H.R. 1346. “The rule would have ultimately made local associations like MCAG expendable and ineffective,” said Rep. Jim Costa. “I applaud the House and Senate passage of this commonsense legislation to repeal the rule to ensure that MCAG can continue its efforts to make a positive difference in Merced County. Our local agencies know best how to direct transportation dollars to serve areas of the highest need, and this rule, if not repealed, would have likely resulted in less local control over our transportation dollars and a less effective transportation system for Merced County. I hope President Trump promptly signs and enacts this bipartisan legislation into law.” “We appreciate the efforts of Congressman Costa and his colleagues to successfully repeal this rule, said Stacie Dabbs, Interim Executive Director, Merced County Association of Governments. MCAG has a long history of voluntary and effective collaboration with the other valley transportation planning agencies. This rule would have threatened decades of progress and our ability to serve all communities in Merced County.” The U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) and Federal Transit Administration (FTA) jointly published the Final Rule on Metropolitan Planning Organization Coordination and Planning Area Reform in the Federal Register on December 20, 2016. The final rule became effective on January 19, 2017. The rule was implemented to streamline decision making procedures, but it would have left Metropolitan Planning Organizations (MPO) like MCAG with less control. Repealing the rule would ensure that local MPOs maintain control over regional projects. In August 2016, Reps. Costa and Jeff Denham (CA-10) sent a joint letter to the USDOT expressing strong opposition to the Metropolitan Planning Organization Coordination and Planning Area Reform Proposed Rulemaking. ###
04.27.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the U.S. House Natural Resources Committee held a mark-up on H.R. 1769, the San Luis Unit Drainage Resolution Act. Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) offered one amendment during the committee mark-up and gave remarks. H.R. 1769 passed out of the U.S. House Natural Resources Committee. “Passage of the San Luis Unit Drainage Resolution Act would provide Congressional authorization of the negotiated settlement agreement reached between the Obama Administration and Westlands Water District,” said Rep. Costa. “The agreement, which took over two years of negotiating, ensures that the water district will use efficient irrigation practices, reuse shallow groundwater, and will be subject to all drainage and environmental laws. Additionally, authorization of the agreement would eliminate the $3.8 billion tax burden that Americans are currently obligated to pay and would move the responsibilities of drainage obligations from federal to local control.” Costa continued saying, “Agriculture is the backbone of the San Joaquin Valley’s economy, and this legislation will help ensure that agricultural land in the San Joaquin Valley continues to produce the healthiest fruits and vegetables in the world. The San Luis Unit Drainage Resolution Act is a solution ensuring that the land in the Westlands Water District of the Central Valley Project remains productive, but we still must continue to work together to advance legislation that includes the northerly districts of the San Luis Unit, including the San Luis Water District.” On April 25, 2017 the United States and the San Luis Water District entered a drainage agreement and needs Congressional authorization. ###
04.25.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement in support of a Fiscal Year 2017 spending bill that does not include any ideological riders in order to avoid a government shutdown. “Holding government spending hostage and threatening to shut down the government for political purposes is completely irresponsible,” said Rep. Costa. “Providing funding to build a wall on the U.S.-Mexico border is a nonstarter for Democrats, including myself, and I am cautiously optimistic to hear from the Trump Administration that they are shifting their focus away from the wall and working to keep government funded.” Costa continued saying, “Similar to communities throughout the nation, in the San Joaquin Valley, thousands of federal employees are at risk of going unpaid if the government shuts down, and that creates a ripple effect in our local, state, and national economies. Additionally, a government shutdown would suspend critical services that Americans rely on, like those provided by the Social Security Administration and the Department of Veterans Affairs. I urge members of the House and Senate, Democrats and Republicans, to come together on a bipartisan basis to keep government funded and build consensus on a long-term budget.” Costa is an original co-sponsor of H.R. 1779, the No Budget, No Pay Act. This bipartisan legislation would hold Members of Congress more accountable for doing their job by withholding their paycheck if Congress does not pass a budget and shuts down the government. Costa is co-chair of the moderate Blue Dog Coalition which is composed of 18 Democrats who strive to work across the aisle and find areas of compromise. Costa is also a member of the bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus which is composed of 40 Members of Congress, evenly split between Republicans and Democrats, who are committed to working together on a bipartisan basis to get past the gridlock and get things done on the issues that matter to the American people. ###
04.20.2017	Fresno, CA – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16), co-founder and co-chair of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus, released the following statement to recognize the lives of Fresno shooting victims, Carl Allen Williams III, Zachary David Randalls, Mark James Gassett, and David Martin Jackson, and to express support for their families. “I join the community in honoring the lives of Carl Allen Williams III, Zachary David Randalls, Mark James Gassett, and David Martin Jackson. During this very sad time for our city, it’s important that we come together to support the victims’ families and one another. We must ensure that the surviving family members of the homicide victims are provided with the resources they need and deserve. “My office is working with state and local agencies to provide immediate and ongoing support to the families of the victims and connecting them with the California Victim Compensation Board (CalVCB). Funding comes from fines paid by offenders convicted in state or federal court and can be used to help pay for funeral expenses, mental health treatment, and other costs related to this horrific crime, in the short- and long-term. “I want to give a big thank you to the Fresno Police Department and first responders for working every single day to help keep our city safe and for their sensitivity to and support for all crime victims and survivors.” In September 2016, the State of California received $10.3 million in Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) federal grant funding which was deposited into the state restitution fund along with other monies. Since 1984, the Victims of Crime Act has provided federal grants to provide essential, often life-saving services for crime victims and survivors. Similar to the state restitution fund, the VOCA Crime Victims Fund is not financed by taxpayer dollars but by fines, forfeitures, and other penalties paid by federal criminal offenders. By statute, the Fund is dedicated solely to supporting victim services and compensation. VOCA’s victim compensation assistance provides victims with financial assistance for medical care, mental health counseling, lost wages, and funeral and burial costs. Every year, Rep. Jim Costa leads the VOCA appropriations letter requesting that the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies support an increased cap on the money that comes out of the Crime Victims Fund. CalVCB administers the state’s victim compensation program to local counties. In Fresno County, the Crime Victim Assistance Center provides direct assistance to eligible victims and their families to help ensure they are receiving the necessary compensation. For more information about CalVCB, please visit www.victims.ca.gov. ###
04.11.2017	FRESNO, CA – Today, the Bureau of Reclamation announced the Central Valley Project 2017 Water Supply Allocations for south of Delta agricultural water districts including the member agencies of the San Luis Delta Mendota Water Authority, like San Luis Water District, Del Puerto Water District, Pacheco Water District, Panoche Water District and Westlands Water District. South of Delta agricultural water districts will receive a 100 percent allocation for the first time since 2006. Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement: “It’s been a decade since Valley farmers have received their full water allocation in the federal service area. Today’s announcement is long overdue, but it is very welcome news for farmers, farm workers, and communities in the San Joaquin Valley. Agriculture is the backbone of our Valley’s economy, and this much needed water will allow farmers to plant the healthy and nutritious crops that feed our nation and world. “While I applaud today’s announcement, there is no denying that California’s water system is broken, and further action must be taken to move California’s water system into the 21st century. Investments need to be made to build water storage and fix broken water infrastructure, so that more water can be captured during years with above average rain and snow fall. Additionally, the current policies that operate California’s water system are flawed and must be modified. Water that could be stored or used to recharge groundwater aquifers that have been depleted because of the drought is flowing out to the ocean. The status quo not only defies logic but is simply not sustainable.” Last month, Costa condemned the Bureau’s delayed announced of the initial water allocation for the CVP, which was 65 percent. ###
04.07.2017	FRESNO, CA – Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement on the passing of Judge Armando Rodriguez: “Judge Armando Rodriguez was a true American hero who devoted his entire life to serving others. As a son of immigrants, he knew the value of hard work and a quality education. He was a wonderful man from humble beginnings, and he successfully established a lifelong career as a public servant. Judge Rodriguez was a good friend of mine. He was also an inspiration and role model for so many throughout our community. His legacy will live on through the countless lives he’s impacted and the lasting contributions he’s made to our state’s judicial system, the arts, and education.” ###
04.07.2017	Fresno, CA – Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement regarding the United States launching a missile attack against the government of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad: “President Donald Trump’s decision to launch a limited missile strike in Syria was the correct action to take to send the message to President Bashar al-Assad that the use of chemical weapons will not be tolerated by the United States. Assad’s horrific actions are not only attacks on his own people, but he is putting Western civilization and the entire world at risk. “The Trump Administration needs to come up with a comprehensive strategy to combat the Assad regime, and if the Authorization for Use of Military Force is necessary, then Congress must act. I stand ready to work with my colleagues in Congress and President on this issue. “Chemical weapon attacks in 2013 took the lives of 1,400 Syrians and this week’s attack continues to darken the moral stain of Assad’s regime which is estimated to be responsible for the deaths of nearly 500,000 of its own people. “It’s important to highlight that Russia President Vladimir Putin supports Assad. Russia is our adversary, and the United States must remain vigilant in combatting all efforts that seek to undermine our nation’s Democracy and our democratic allies in Europe who share our freedoms and way of life.” ###
04.06.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – This week, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) presented Danielle Quiroga with the Eva Murillo Unsung Hero Award from the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus. Danielle is a survivor of a terrorism inspired incident that took place on November 4, 2015 on the University of California, Merced campus. “It was an honor to present Danielle Quiroga with the Eva Murillo Unsung Hero Award from the Congressional Victims' Rights Caucus,” said Congressman Jim Costa. “Even after experiencing a devastating trauma, Danielle has kept her spirits high. Danielle’s positive outlook on life has helped her, her family and witnesses of the horrific incident cope with the tragedy. Danielle is an inspiration to all of us, and it was truly an honor for her to be in Washington, D.C. to accept the award.” "I am incredibly humbled and honored to have been awarded the Eva Murillo Unspoken Hero Award from the Congressional Victims' Rights Caucus,” said Danielle Quiroga. “This award is such a honor for me and for my family. I was blessed to have such a supportive group of warriors behind me and I would love to share this award with them. Thank you so much to Congressman Costa for such an amazing opportunity to come out to Washington, D.C. We are looking forward to being involved in more victims’ advocacy events this week and continuing to tour our nation’s capital. The sights are breathtaking." The Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus was founded in 2005 by the co-chairs, Representatives Jim Costa and Ted Poe. The mission of the Caucus is to elevate crime victim issues in Congress in a bipartisan manner without infringing on the rights of the accused, and to represent and advocate before the Administration and within the Congress on behalf of crime victims. Since 2006, the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus has honored outstanding individuals, agencies and collaborative initiatives whose efforts directly benefit victims and survivors of crime, and promote individual and public safety. The Caucus hosts an annual awards ceremony on Capitol Hill around the annual commemoration of National Crime Victims’ Rights Week (which in 2017, is scheduled for the week of April 2-8). ###
03.24.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after the United States House of Representatives failed to vote on H.R. 1628, the American Health Care Act, after President Donald Trump requested Speaker Paul Ryan pull the bill from consideration. The American Health Care Act would have repealed and replaced the Affordable Care Act (ACA). “The American Health Care Act (AHCA) was flawed policy and if it had been enacted in its current form, the law would have negatively impacted hundreds of thousands of San Joaquin Valley residents. For these reasons, I would have voted to oppose this measure. “Improvements need to be made to the Affordable Care Act but the AHCA was not the solution. The irresponsible cuts proposed by the AHCA would have caused hundreds of thousands of children, seniors, and women in the Valley to lose their health coverage. It is vital that we improve upon the gains we have made under the Affordable Care Act and make the necessary changes to improve coverage for all Americans. “I say it time and again, and I’ll keep saying it: the Congress and President are not going to fix America’s health care system without working together on a bipartisan basis. Today’s defeat of the American Health Care Act is a necessary step toward making real improvements to our health care system. I know how difficult it can be to stand up to your own party’s leadership and I commend my Republican colleagues who did so today. Moving forward, I encourage congressional Republicans and the Trump Administration to reach across the aisle to work with Democrats, including myself, who want to find real solutions to fixing provisions in the Affordable Care Act to improve health care outcomes for all Americans. ###
03.22.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the Bureau of Reclamation announced the initial Central Valley Project 2017 Water Supply Allocations for south of Delta agricultural water districts including the member agencies of the San Luis Delta Mendota Water Authority, like San Luis Water District, Del Puerto Water District, Pacheco Water District, Panoche Water District and Westlands Water District. Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement: “This year is tracking to be the wettest year on record in California, but as a result of policies that inhibit the movement and storage of water through California’s broken water system, south of Delta agriculture water districts are receiving a 65 percent initial water allocation instead of their full contract amount. The delayed announcement, coupled with the partial water allocations in a year where California has been blessed with record rainfall is simply unacceptable. I sincerely hope it is not an indication of what is to be expected in future years with average or below average rainfall. “Farmers are in the middle of planting season. They are assessing their resources, meeting with their bankers, and applying for business loans. This delayed water allocation announcement hinders farmers’ ability to plant crops and sign contracts, which affects their bottom line and ultimately impacts California’s agriculture industry and our nation’s food supply. Continuing to operate our federal water projects as we have in the past simply doesn’t work. During both wet and dry years, our farm communities are experiencing harmful impacts due to regulatory restrictions that do not reflect the best available science. “Passing and signing the WIIN (Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation) Act last year was a good first step in fixing California’s broken water system, but further action must be taken to invest in our water infrastructure and modify flawed policies to move California’s water system into the 21st century.” ###
03.22.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement in response to the United States Department of Labor’s announcement that up to $36 million will be made available to California to assist with recovery efforts as a result of the storms and flooding that took place in January. “This grant funding is much needed and will provide resources for clean-up efforts in communities throughout Merced County, said Rep. Costa. “I will continue to monitor the situation as more federal resources become available to assist California with flood impacts, and I’m working to ensure that counties located within the San Joaquin Valley receive our fair share of funding assistance to repair damaged roads and infrastructure.” Today, the California Employment Development Department received $12 million in funding. The grant funding is made available through the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act. The announcement made by the U.S. Department of Labor can be viewed here. ###
03.16.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement on President Donald Trump’s FY2018 Budget Blueprint. “For someone who was elected with strong support from rural America, the President’s budget blueprint shows very little consideration for the people who live in America’s farming communities. Federal grants, like the Community Development Block Grant and TIGER Grant, are critical funding streams for our San Joaquin Valley, and President Trump wants to completely eliminate them. Furthermore, the budget blueprint cuts the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) budget by 21 percent. The USDA oversees an array of programs, from supporting Valley farmers, investing in rural development, increasing drought resilience to managing forest cleanup and wildfire prevention. “By adding $54 billion in military spending and cutting core programs, like those that ensure safe drinking water, provide protection from floods, fund cancer research and invest in our children’s education, the budget blueprint shifts the fundamental way in which the federal government supports the American people. This proposal would prove to have negative consequences for the majority of Americans, and in failing to address the main drivers of the federal debt, it is not a serious outline to putting our country on a path forward for fiscal sustainability.” Summary of cuts in Budget Blueprint: Department of Agriculture The President’s 2018 Budget requests $17.9 billion for USDA, a $4.7 billion or 21 percent decrease. Eliminates the following programs: Water and Waste Disposal Loan and Grant Program: Provides funding for clean drinking water, sanitary sewage disposal and storm-water drainage programs in rural areas. Rural Business and Cooperative Service’s discretionary programs: Provides financial assistance for economic development programs in rural communities, including renewable energy and biofuel initiatives. McGovern-Dole International Food for Education Program: Supports education, child development and food security initiatives in low-income, food-deficit countries around the world. Department of Commerce The President’s 2018 Budget requests $7.8 billion for the Department of Commerce, a $1.5 billion or 16 percent decrease. Eliminates the following programs: Economic Development Administration: Provides grants and assistance to create new jobs, retain businesses and stimulate growth in economically distressed communities. Minority Business Development Agency: Promotes the growth of minority-owned businesses through advocacy, policy, research and access to capital and contracts. Manufacturing Extension Partnership: Regional centers that assist smaller, U.S. manufacturing companies with adopting new technologies. Department of Education The President’s 2018 Budget provides $59 billion in discretionary funding for the Department of Education, a $9 billion or 13 percent reduction. Eliminates the following programs: Supporting Effective Instruction State Grants: Provides grants to non-profit organizations that recruit and provide professional enhancement for teachers and principals. 21st Century Community Learning Centers: Supports community learning centers that provide before-and after-school programs for children, particularly those in high-poverty areas. Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant: Provides need-based grants of up to $4,000 to low-income undergraduates for postsecondary education. Striving Readers: Helps states fund literacy programs for children, birth through grade 12, including those with disabilities and limited English. Teacher Quality Partnership: Funds initiatives aimed at improving the quality of new teachers through better development and recruiting methods. Impact Aid Support Payments for Federal Property: Provides funding to school districts that have a diminished tax base due to federal property ownership in the district. Department of Energy The President’s 2018 Budget requests $28.0 billion for DOE, a $1.7 billion or 5.6 percent decrease. Eliminates the following programs: Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy: Provides funding and support to short-term energy research projects aimed at improving the U.S. economy, environment and national security. Title 17 Innovative Technology Loan Guarantee Program: Provides loans to support the use of new energy technology. Advanced Technology Vehicle Manufacturing Program: Provides loans to automotive and component manufacturers for facilities and engineering that support advanced technology vehicles. Weatherization Assistance Program: Provides grants to local governments to improve weatherization and energy efficiency of homes of low-income residents. State Energy Program: Supports local State Energy Offices in advancing energy efficiency and infrastructure. Department of Health and Human Services The President’s 2018 Budget requests $69.0 billion for HHS, a $15.1 billion or 17.9 percent decrease. Eliminates the following programs: Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program: Provides assistance to low income families to help pay for their home’s energy bills and some energy-related maintenance. Community Services Block Grant: Funds projects aimed at reducing poverty in communities, including projects focused on education, nutrition, employment and housing. Department of Housing and Urban Development The President’s 2018 Budget requests $40.7 billion in gross discretionary funding for HUD, a $6.2 billion or 13.2 percent decrease. Eliminates funding for the following programs: Community Development Block Grant Program: Funds programs that assist low-income people with housing issues, including the elimination of urban blight and other community programs. HOME Investment Partnerships Program: Provides block grants to state and local governments to create affordable housing solutions for low-income households. Choice Neighborhoods: Funds programs to replace distressed public housing and promotes investment for neighborhood improvement. Self-Help Homeownership Opportunity Program: Funds nonprofit organizations that build new housing for low-income families through sweat equity and volunteer labor, like Habitat for Humanity. Section 4 Capacity Building for Community Development and Affordable Housing: Works with nonprofit groups to fund community development and affordable housing initiatives aimed at low-income families. Department of Labor The President’s 2018 Budget requests $9.6 billion for the Department of Labor, a $2.5 billion or 21 percent decrease. Eliminates the following programs: Senior Community Service Employment Program: A community service and work-based job training program for older Americans, including training for low-income, unemployed seniors. Bureau of International Labor Affairs grant program: Provides funding for research initiatives and projects in over 94 countries to combat child labor and forced labor. Occupational Safety and Health Administration training grants: Provides grants for training and education programs for employers and workers on the prevention of safety and health hazards in the workplace. Department of Transportation The President’s 2018 Budget requests $16.2 billion for DOT’s discretionary budget, a $2.4 billion or 13 percent decrease. Eliminates the following programs: Federal support for Amtrak’s long distance train services: Subsidizes the cost of traveling on Amtrak’s long-distance routes. Essential Air Service: Subsidizes airlines for regular flights to and from small and midsize regional airports like those in the San Joaquin Valley. TIGER discretionary grant program: Provides transportation infrastructure grants to state, local and tribal governments. Environmental Protection Agency The President’s 2018 Budget requests $5.7 billion for the Environmental Protection Agency, a savings of $2.6 billion, or 31 percent decrease. Eliminates the following programs: Clean Power Plan: Creates national standards for carbon pollution from power plants and helps states develop and deploy clean energy alternatives. International climate change programs: Promotes clean and efficient energy technologies and the sharing of scientific climate research through multilateral initiatives and treaties. Climate change research and partnership programs: Research and report on climate change’s impact on the U.S. Energy Star: Certifies and recognizes buildings and consumer products that meet specific energy-efficiency criteria. Targeted Air Shed grants: Assists local and state air pollution control agencies in developing plans and implementing projects to reduce air pollution in highly polluted areas, like the San Joaquin Valley. Small Business Administration The President’s 2018 Budget requests $826.5 million for SBA, a $43.2 million or 5.0 percent decrease. Eliminates the following programs: PRIME technical assistance grants: Provides training and technical assistance to organizations that help disadvantaged entrepreneurs. Regional Innovation Clusters: Supports public-private partnerships concentrated in regional groups to strengthen small businesses. Growth Accelerators: Funds startups that support underserved communities and areas with less access to venture capital. ###
03.16.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) spoke on the floor of the United States House of Representatives to urge President Donald Trump to work with Congress on a bipartisan basis and fix America’s broken immigration system. “Once again, a federal court blocked President Trump’s executive order to ban travel to United States and found the executive order to be discriminatory and potentially unconstitutional. Today, I spoke on the floor of the United States House of Representatives to reiterate the need for President Trump to work with the Congress on a bipartisan basis to fix our country’s broken immigration system.” View Rep. Costa’s speech here ###
03.13.2017	Madera, CA – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) and Valley health care providers held a media availability to speak about the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and the recently introduced American Health Care Act (AHCA). “Today I will be hearing from San Joaquin Valley health care providers about what they think works in the Affordable Care Act and what in the law could be fixed. We will also be discussing the provisions in the recently introduced American Health Care Act,” said Rep. Costa. “The fact is that since the implementation of the Affordable Care Act, the uninsured rate among residents living in California’s 16th Congressional district has been cut in half from 22.5% to 11.1%. I understand the Affordable Care Act is not perfect. Republicans and Democrats in Congress and the Trump Administration must come together to fix the Affordable Care Act and implement health care policies that make sense for all Americans.” “It’s good to see that the American Health Care Act proposal recognizes the critical role that federally qualified health centers (FQHCs) play in our healthcare environment, as illustrated in the additional $422 million in funding,” said Paulo Soares, Chief Executive Officer of Camarena Health. “However, we certainly don’t want to lose sight of the gains and achievements we have made in regards to increasing access to quality care through the expansion of Medicaid. Loss of the Medicaid expansion would prevent millions of Californians from continuing to access affordable primary care services.” The Affordable Care Act established mental health care as an essential health care service, said Dennis Koch, Director of Madera County Behavioral Health Services. “Repealing the Affordable Care Act without an immediate, suitable, and comprehensive replacement will do irreparable damage to our publically funded mental health and substance use disorder systems.” “Based on the current proposal, the California Medical Association is concerned that the American Health Care Act doesn't go far enough to improve access to physicians through payment rate increases or network adequacy requirements,” said Dr. Ranjit Singh Rajpal, Board Member of the California Medical Association. “We're also concerned that the federal Medicaid funding will be reduced, shifting the burden to the states and ultimately to physicians who are on the front lines caring for these patients. What's more, too many Californians could lose coverage because the aged-based tax credits aren't adequate to help low-to moderate-income families afford insurance.” Advocates for the health and well-being of Central California residents should oppose the current efforts to partially repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, said Dr. John Capitman, Executive Director of Central Valley Health Policy Institute. “As many as 88% of California's 16th district residents are served through MediCal (Medicaid) and California's insurance marketplace. Approximately 420,000 people or 58% of the District's population enrolled in Medicaid (MediCal) are at risk of losing benefits because of the proposed financing changes. Around 217, 000 residents of the district have enrolled in the Affordable Care Act (ACA) market place. The ACA is already making demonstrable improvements in access to preventive care and reduced avoidable hospitalizations: the proposed replacement will stop this progress and exacerbate our region's challenges.” “Together, we have been able to enroll more than 15,000 individuals in Medi-Cal or health insurance through Covered California,” said Socorro Santillan, Executive Director of Fresno Barrios Unidos. “We’ve also helped transition more than 2,600 undocumented children to receive Medi-Cal thanks to the “Health for All Kids” Bill. But now, it seems like all our work will be undone with the potential repeal of the Affordable Care Act. Now more than ever do we need a health care safety net. According to Health Access California, more than 120,000 individuals would be negatively impacted by the Affordable Care Act repeal in this congressional district alone.” Visit this link to view a one pager on the Impact of ACA Repeal on the 16th Congressional District of California. ###
03.07.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) announced that Fresno’s Amy Kitchener has received a Congressional Appointment to serve on the Board of Trustees for the American Folklife Center at the Library of Congress. “Amy’s expertise and passion for the arts will undoubtedly add value to the American Folklife Center at the Library of Congress,” said Rep. Costa. “I know Amy will apply her strong Valley roots and decades of experience as she joins the Library of Congress in preserving our nation’s cultural diversity and rich traditions. The San Joaquin Valley and entire state of California have a wealth of culture to share with the nation and world. Amy will proudly represent our state with great dedication.” “I am honored to serve as a congressional appointee to the American Folklife Center, especially during this moment in history,” said Amy Kitchener, recent appointee to the American Folklife Center at the Library of Congress. “The existence of the American Folklife Center affirms the critical role that government should play as a steward to preserve and present American folklife -- helping us discover, remember and celebrate who we are as a people. I’m pleased to serve as the only California representative on the Board of Trustees in my work as the founding executive director of the Alliance for California Traditional Arts. The AFC holds many special collections from our state, including the Work Projects Administration Northern California Folk Music Project. The collection includes Sidney Robertson Cowell recorded musicians from many immigrant and migrant communities, which define our state’s history, for example, Armenians in Fresno, Russian Molokans in San Francisco, tunes from the Gold Rush; and Mexican wedding music, among others. For me, this collection affirms the unique cultural contributions of Californians – from California’s First People to recent immigrants. We have long lived, worked and played side by side and thrive in our diverse expressions – this is California’s gift to the rest of the country. I believe that affirming our diverse cultural traditions and sharing them is a foundation of what it means to be American.” Amy Kitchener is the Executive Director and co-founder of the Alliance for California Traditional Arts. The Alliance for California Traditional Arts promotes and supports ways for cultural traditions to thrive now and into the future by providing advocacy, resources and connections for artists. In 1976, the American Folklife Center was established by the U.S. Congress to preserve and present American folklife. For more information on the American Folklife Center, please visit the website for the Library of Congress. ###
03.07.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement strongly condemning the recent hate crimes against Indian Americans. On February 22, Srinivas Kuchibhotla was shot and killed and Alok Madasani was wounded by Adam Purinton in a bar in Kansas. This past Friday, on March 3, in Seattle, Washington Deep Rai was shot in his own driveway. “We, as Americans, should never forget that our country was founded in part on the principle of religious freedom. Our constitution protects the freedom of religion.” “The recent hate crimes against Indian Americans in Washington and Kansas cannot and will not be tolerated. Attacks on the Indian community are rooted in hatred, bigotry, and a complete lack of understanding of the faith and culture. As a nation of immigrants, we must treat every American citizen with the same level of respect and acceptance into our communities. Hate crimes, especially those that are based on intolerance for a certain race, creed or gender, have no place in our country. “My thoughts and prayers are with the victims, their families and all the Indian communities across the country. Justice must be served, and I commend the agencies that are working together to prosecute the individuals who are responsible for the horrific and hateful attacks. “The Central Valley is home to millions of individuals with different backgrounds, faiths, ethnicities, and cultures, and I urge Valley residents to get know their neighbors, work colleagues, or store clerks - someone who looks, talks, dresses, or prays differently. Continued ignorance is only going to fuel hate. We must get to know one another, appreciate our differences, and remind ourselves that what unites us as Americans is far stronger than what divides us.” ###
03.02.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement in response to reports that then-Senator Jeff Sessions spoke with Russia’s Ambassador to the United States last year and failed to provide the information while he was under oath during his confirmation hearing in the Senate Judiciary Committee. “Russia’s interference in our nation’s democratic process is very alarming, and I support all efforts to investigate exactly what happened,” said Rep. Costa. “Attorney General Jeff Sessions failed to disclose his interactions with the Russian Ambassador to the United States during his confirmation process, and he should recuse himself from the investigations into Russia’s interference in our election. The federal government must do everything it can to uncover the facts of Russia’s involvement in the 2016 election and prevent future attempts of foreign actors to undermine our democracy. Due to the uncertainty surrounding the actions of Attorney General Sessions I do not believe he can be viewed as objective in the Department of Justice’s investigation, and he should recuse himself immediately.” ###
02.28.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Costa released the following statement after President Donald Trump’s address to a joint session of Congress. “Tonight’s address to a joint session of Congress gave the President a new opportunity to work on a bipartisan basis with Congress. It is my hope that President Trump was sincere in saying that he wants to find common ground and work together on behalf of all Americans. I want the President to succeed because his success is crucial for America’s continued growth and progress. “While I think it’s important that the President and Congress move forward and work together on a bipartisan basis, we cannot ignore or deny that President Trump implemented policies that do not uphold American values. For example, issuing executive orders to ban travel to the United States and build a wall on the U.S. – Mexico border are not real solutions to fixing our broken immigration system and do little, if anything, to improve our national security. Additionally, a U.S. – Mexico border wall could hurt our trade relationship with Mexico. These actions illustrate that President Trump lacks diplomatic experience and does not understand the harmful human and economic impacts, which have been felt by the people of the Valley. “Ensuring the safety of American citizens always has been and will continue be the number one priority of the President and Congress. The United States has the strongest military in the world and our military strength gives us the opportunity to spread Western values, freedom, and justice throughout the world, and that includes fighting terrorist organizations, like ISIS and Al-Qaeda. It is absolutely vital that we take care of the brave service members and veterans who sacrifice everything to protect Americans’ way of life. “Working together on bipartisan basis, President Trump and Congress can make long-term investments in our nation’s crumbling transportation and water infrastructure, reform our tax and immigration systems, ensure quality health care for everyone, and enact policies, like those in the Farm Bill, that are good for all Americans. I stand ready to work with the President on a bipartisan basis on these issues.” ###
02.28.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the Bureau of Reclamation announced the initial Central Valley Project 2017 Water Supply Allocation for Friant, Eastside and American River division contractors. Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement: “California’s Central Valley is on track to have its wettest water year on record, and obviously an initial 100 percent water allocation from the Central Valley Project for Friant, Eastside, and American River contractors is good news. However, with the announcement of today’s water allocations, I share in both the relief and the frustration of many farmers and Central Valley residents. “Had water infrastructure projects, like Temperance Flat Dam and Sites Reservoir, been built prior to this record rainfall, then more water would be stored for years with less precipitation and snowfall, to be made available to respond to future human and ecosystem needs. Congress and the Administration must work together on a bipartisan basis to make desperately needed investments in California’s water infrastructure, so that years from now, God willing, when there is another record breaking wet year, there will be the storage capacity to capture water from the rain and snow. “Furthermore, the fact that the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation has not announced a water allocation for the Westside, which includes the San Luis Unit, and isn't expected to do so until late March, despite abundant rainfall and snow in the mountains, is another clear indication that California’s water system is broken. After five years of record breaking drought, California finally has water, but yet again farmers on the Westside do not know what their water allocation will be, threatening their ability to plant annual crops. As we enter the month of March, farmers are meeting with their bankers to obtain loans and determining how much of their diverse and nutritious crops will be planted based upon this year’s water allocation. Decisions have to be made; now is the planting season.” ###
02.28.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement to announce that the Merced County Registrar of Voters’ Office is designated as an official passport acceptance facility and will accept passport applications on behalf of the United States Department of State. Rep. Costa was instrumental in coordinating with the State Department’s U.S. Passports and International Travel San Francisco Passport Agency to ensure that residents in Merced have access to passport services. “Passport services should be accessible to all Americans, and that’s why my staff and I worked hard to ensure that Merced County residents have a local passport office,” said Rep. Costa. “Re-establishing passport services in Merced required collaboration among all levels government, and I applaud the County of Merced for its efforts during this process.” Upon reading a letter to the editor that was in the Merced Sun-Star on April 24, 2016, Rep. Costa set out to meet with the San Francisco Passport Agency Director to bring a passport office back to Merced. He facilitated meetings to find an appropriate location, and the Merced County Registrar of Voters’ Office was finalized as the location in October 2016. ###
02.24.2017	MERCED, CA — Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) joined Merced County Sheriff Vern Warnke on a helicopter tour to see the current flood conditions and impacts in Merced County. “The rain is letting up but efforts to address current flood conditions in Merced County are still in full force,” said Rep. Costa. “I commend Sheriff Warnke and the county Office of Emergency Services for their due diligence in bringing together all levels of government to address the flood impacts throughout the County. It is imperative that long-term investments are made in California’s water infrastructure, so that dangerous flooding can be avoided and rain can be captured and stored during future wet years. I am continuing to work with my colleagues in Washington and Sacramento to find ways to repair outdated water infrastructure and build new water infrastructure projects, like Temperance Flat Dam, raising the spillway gates at New Exchequer Dam, which will provide more storage capacity, and possibly raising San Luis Reservoir Dam.” “We are continuing to monitor all weather impacts and planning accordingly,” said Sheriff Warnke. “Our pledge is to keep the “people” up to date with the latest information and any plans of action that may pertain to them, should a problem erect. Everything is currently going well, and no one should worry.” ###
02.17.2017	MERCED, CA – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) sent a letter to Governor Jerry Brown regarding the dangerous flood conditions in Merced County. Late on Thursday night, a levee along the Merced River failed because of the high volume of water releases from Lake McClure. “First let me thank you for including Merced County in your initial request for a Presidential Disaster Declaration for January 3rd-12th. However, Merced County’s citizens need your help again,” wrote Rep. Costa. “I want to call your attention to the current flood conditions in Merced County. As storms continue to hit the California Central Valley, state and county emergency officials are working hard to handle the amount of water flowing along the Merced and San Joaquin Rivers. We need you to request additional federal assistance to help deal with flooding as a result of rising water levels.” Full text of the letter follows: February 17, 2017 The Honorable Jerry Brown Governor of California State Capitol, Suite 1173 Sacramento, California 95814 Dear Governor Brown: First let me thank you for including Merced County in your initial request for a Presidential Disaster Declaration for January 3rd-12th. However, Merced County’s citizens need your help again. I want to call your attention to the current flood conditions in Merced County. As storms continue to hit the California Central Valley, state and county emergency officials are working hard to handle the amount of water flowing along the Merced and San Joaquin Rivers. We need you to request additional federal assistance to help deal with flooding as a result of rising water levels. Just last week, I joined officials in Merced County, for a helicopter tour of the flooding and saw first-hand just how severe the flooding is, and anticipate because of the coming storms, for things to get much worse. I can attest to the substantial and widespread nature of the devastation caused by the storms that you indicated to President Trump in your letter of request for a disaster declaration. Causing further and serious issues, just recently the Merced River crested a private ditch gate near Snelling, CA flooding Merced River Road because of the high volume of water releases from Lake McClure. My staff has been working with the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), and we have been told you have the flexibility to add more locations and time periods to the Presidential disaster declaration request. Therefore, I am respectfully asking that the recent flood events in Merced County be included in your request for a Presidential disaster declaration. Thank you for your attention to this severe situation affecting the residents of Merced County. Sincerely, JIM COSTA Member of Congress ###
02.16.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement as more storms begin to hit California’s San Joaquin Valley. “Since January, there have been mandatory evacuations up and down the state of California. In Merced County, families have been forced to leave their homes, and the county estimates that there is $3-3.5 million in damage due to the storms during the beginning of January,” said Rep. Costa. “As a result of the storms events in the past four weeks, the cost of damages is only continuing to rise, so while I welcome the major disaster declaration issued by Governor Brown and President Trump, it’s simply not enough. The current declaration only enables public entities in Merced, not individuals, to recoup costs from flood damages that took place at the first of the year.” Rep. Costa continued saying, “As Californians gear up for another storm system today and into the weekend, I will be monitoring flood damages and impacts closely. If the time comes, I will be sending letters and picking up the phone to call Governor Brown and the White House to ensure that residents in Fresno, Madera, and Merced counties receive the resources they need to address any catastrophic damages.” On February 14, President Donald Trump issued a major disaster declaration for the State of California. The major disaster declaration activates support and resources from Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to counties in California that have affected by storm events that took place January 3 through January 12. Merced County is one of 34 counties that are eligible to apply for public assistance grants. For-profit entities and individuals are not eligible to apply for public assistance grants. Separately, on February 14, President Trump issued an emergency declaration for Butte, Sutter, and Yuba counties for storms events that began on February 7 and is continuous. ###
02.14.2017	MERCED, CA — On Friday, February 10th, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) visited El Capitan High School to meet with Ethan Torres. Ethan is a senior and the first student at El Capitan High School to ever receive a congressional nomination to a military academy. Ethan was nominated to attend the U.S. Air Force Academy. “The young men and women who receive a congressional nomination to attend our nation’s military academies are well-rounded, bright, and committed, and Ethan is no exception,” said Rep. Costa. “I’m confident that Ethan has a great future ahead of him. I commend Principal Shaw and his faculty and staff for always striving to ensure that their students are well-educated and prepared for the future.” “It’s an honor to be nominated to the Air Force Academy,” said Ethan Torres, student at El Capitan High School and nominee for the U.S. Air Force Academy. “I would like to thank Congressman Costa and my family, friends, teachers, and school for all of the support.” "We are extremely proud of Ethan for being the first El Capitan student to receive this recognition, said Principal Shaw, El Capitan High School. “Ethan is a positive influence on campus and is leaving his legacy by receiving this nomination. He has set an example for future students as to what is possible for their lives." Congressman Costa joined Ethan Torres, his parents, Principal Shaw, and teachers for lunch to celebrate Ethan’s nomination to the U.S. Air Force Academy. ###
02.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement in response to the United States Department of Agriculture’s recommendation to establish a California Federal Milk Marketing Order (FMMO). “For years I have advocated and worked hard to give California dairy producers the opportunity to join the Federal Milk Marketing Order,” said Rep. Costa. “Finally, the United States Department of Agriculture released a proposal that would allow California's dairy producers to make their own determination of what is best for California’s dairy industry. Dairy producers have the opportunity to evaluate what joining the Federal Milk Marketing Order system will mean for their bottom line. I will continue working with California’s dairymen and cooperatives as they assess the USDA proposal and decide on the merits of remaining independent or joining the 10 other Federal Milk Marketing Orders around the country.” In 2013, Rep. Costa joined in introducing the California Federal Milk Marketing Act to allow California dairy producers to decide if they want to join the Federal Milk Marketing Order. Rep. Costa advocated for the provisions in the legislation during Farm Bill negotiations, and the legislation was included in the 2014 Farm Bill. ###
02.11.2017	Merced, CA – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) joined the Los Banos community in welcoming home Eman Ali. Rep. Costa and Ahmed Ali’s immigration attorney, Katy Lewis, released the following statements: “It was very special to meet Eman and see her reunited with her family,” said Rep. Jim Costa. “The outpouring of support that the Ali family has received from the Los Banos community has been both remarkable and inspirational. It’s amazing how Eman’s journey, which originated from a desire to shut people out and invoke divisiveness, is instead bringing our community together.” Costa continued saying, “I applaud the ruling by the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals to block President Trump’s executive order to ban travel to the United States. The executive order is flawed, both in its lack of adherence to American values and in its technical execution, and could be ruled unconstitutional. Given the court ruling, President Trump should take the opportunity to work with Congress to implement a revised executive order that maintains American values, adheres to protections under the constitution, and strengthens Americans’ security.” "Due to the unconstitutional and un-American executive order issued on January 27th, my client, 12-year-old Eman Ali and her U.S. citizen father Ahmed Ali were stranded in Djibouti and faced great uncertainty,” said Katy Lewis, the Ali’s immigration attorney. “However, as a result of the Seattle District Court Judge's order on February 3, Eman and Ahmed were able to travel to and enter the United States, arriving at SFO on Sunday, February 5. The smile on Eman's face as she stepped on U.S. soil for the first time in this long journey was truly inspiring. We are thrilled that Eman Ali is now a U.S. citizen and is reunited with her U.S. citizen parents and siblings in Los Banos, California. I believe that Eman's case demonstrates just how ill-conceived and harmful this executive order truly is; instead of protecting American citizens, it is separating American citizens from their families. This country enjoys immense religious and ethnic diversity, and such diversity is a great strength of the nation. The executive order banning individuals from entering the United States based on national origin and religion betrays the fundamental values that make America great." On February 9th, the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals unanimously ruled to continue to block President Donald Trump’s executive order to keep people from Yemen, Syria, Sudan, Somalia, Iraq, Iran, and Libya from entering the United States. When Eman and Ahmed were stuck in Djibouti, Rep. Costa spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to urge the President to let Eman be reunited with her family in the United States. A video of Rep. Costa’s speech can be viewed here. ###
02.08.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) announced that in the 115th Congress, he will continue to serve on the U.S. House Agriculture and Natural Resources Committees. Rep. Costa will maintain his position as the Ranking Member on the Agriculture Committee’s Livestock and Foreign Agriculture Subcommittee. The subcommittee oversees livestock, dairy, and poultry issues along with foreign agriculture assistance and trade promotion programs. Costa will also serve on the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Biotechnology, Horticulture, Research that oversees specialty crops, plant pests and diseases, research, and education. Costa will continue to serve on the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Water, Power, and Oceans and Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources. Water, Power, and Oceans is responsible for the nation’s water resources, interstate water, and ocean issues. The Energy and Mineral Resources Subcommittee oversees energy production and mining on federal lands, both on and off-shore. “In order to maintain and grow our San Joaquin Valley economy, we must have a secure water supply and a thriving agriculture industry,” said Rep. Jim Costa. “As a member of both the House Agriculture and Natural Resources Committees, I have the distinct opportunity to advocate for many policies that impact our Valley, like working to ensure a reliable water supply and supporting the San Joaquin Valley farmers who produce the highest quality food and fiber for the world. Additionally, I will be a leader in negotiating the 2018 Farm Bill, which will not only have a direct effect on farming, ranching, and dairy operations, but also on funding for nutrition assistance, conservation, and rural development programs.” Rep. Costa has served on the House Agriculture and Natural Resources Committees since he took office in 2005. As a third-generation farmer who was raised on a dairy farm in the San Joaquin Valley, Costa advocates for policies in both the House Agriculture and Natural Resources Committees that ensure the future economic viability of the Valley. ###
02.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after his constituent Ahmed Ali, and Mr. Ali's 12-year-old daughter, Eman, boarded a plane in Frankfurt that is en route to San Francisco, California. They are expected to land at San Francisco International Airport (SFO) after 4:00pm. Mr. Ali and Eman began their travels to the United States when U.S. District Court Judge James Robart ruled to temporarily block President Trump's executive order to ban individuals from Yemen, Somalia, Libya, Iran, Iraq, Syria, and Sudan from entering the United States. They had been waiting in Djibouti after being told that Eman could not board a plane to the United States because of President Trump's executive order. Mr. Ali, his wife, and their two other children are U.S. citizens and Los Banos residents. Eman was born in Yemen, and after a thorough vetting process, she was issued an immigrant visa in January. "I am thrilled to know that Eman and her father are on their way home and hours from being reunited with their family,” said Rep. Costa. “Eman, a 12 year-old-girl with U.S. citizen parents, was stuck in Djibouti with her father in harms way for a week because of President Trump’s flawed executive order. Banning the travel of individuals, like Eman, who have gone through a rigorous vetting process from entering the United States is not the American way and could be ruled unconstitutional.” Costa continued saying, “U.S. District Court Judge Robart’s ruling to temporarily suspend the executive order gives the Administration and Congress an opportunity to fully assess the executive order and its impacts on American citizens, legal permanent residents, and refugees. Since September 11, 2001, there has been a strong bipartisan consensus to implement policies to keep Americans safe, and part of that effort includes a long and rigorous process to obtain an immigrant visa. In Eman’s case, she went through six years of thorough vetting. It is my first constitutional duty to ensure American safety, and clearly, Eman, a 12-year-old girl with American parents, is not a dangerous threat to our country. A revised executive order must not conflict with protections under the United States constitution.” On February 4th, the Department of Justice filed a motion for a stay of the temporary restraining order, and the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals denied the emergency stay request. The ruling by U.S. District Court Judge James Robart will remain in place. ###
02.01.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to speak about his constituent, Ahmed Ali, and his 12-year-old daughter, Eman, who are waiting in Djibouti because of President Donald Trump’s travel ban. “President Trump’s executive order is putting Ahmed Ali and his daughter, Eman, in harm’s way as they wait in Djibouti,” said Rep. Costa. “Eman is a 12-year-old girl with parents who are both American citizens. After six years of extreme vetting, Eman received a U.S. immigrant visa. Clearly, she is not a threat to our country, and I urge the President and Secretary John Kelly to let Eman join her American family in the United States.” A video of Rep. Costa’s speech can be viewed here. Rep. Costa’s prepared remarks: Mr. Speaker, I rise today to call attention to a 12-year-old girl, Eman Ali, who is stuck in Djibouti. Eman and her father, Ahmed Ali, who is an American citizen, are in Djibouti because of President Trump’s flawed executive order to ban travel to the United States. The Ali family is like many immigrant families throughout our country, including my own, who came to the United States in hopes of achieving the American Dream. As Americans, we know that the statue of liberty is a symbol of freedom and new beginnings for immigrants past and immigrants present. Since the founding of our country, immigrants from all over the world have been coming to the United States to make a better life for themselves and their families. Mr. Ali and his wife immigrated to the United States and earned U.S. citizenship in hopes of achieving that American dream. They have been making a living in my district and supporting their two daughters in Los Banos, California, but they’ve also been living with sadness and heartbreak. Their 12-year-old daughter, Eman, was born in Yemen. And for six years, the Ali family has been working through the appropriate channels to get their daughter a visa so she can gain U.S. citizenship and be reunited with her family. On January 26, after years of going through a thorough vetting process, Eman, finally received her immigrant visa. One day later, on the 27th, President Donald Trump turned the Ali Family’s and hundreds of other families lives upside down by signing an executive order to implement a travel ban to prohibit refugees and others from coming to the United States. Hours after the executive order was signed, Eman and her father went to the airport in Djibouti, passed through security and when boarding the plane, Eman was told by the airline that she could not board because of the recently signed executive order. The Immigrant visa issued to Eman would have given her status as a lawful permanent resident upon entering the U.S. and since she is 12 years old and both of her parents are U.S. citizens, Eman would have been immediately eligible to file for U.S. citizenship. President Trump’s executive order is preventing this legal process from taking place, and is putting Eman and her father in harm’s way while they wait in Djibouti. In the past 48 hours, the Trump Administration has been defending the executive order, saying it is not a travel ban or a ban on refugees. So I would like to ask the President - How is the executive order not a ban on refugees and on individuals who have been approved to enter the United States? And how is keeping a 12-year-old girl out of the United States making Americans safer? It’s not making Americans safer. Extreme vetting was in place during both the Bush and Obama Administrations. This travel ban is flawed, both in its lack of adherence to American values and in its technical execution, and could possibly be ruled unconstitutional. A bipartisan group of national security experts agree that the executive order does not make Americans safer and could potentially put our country at greater risk for terrorist attacks. I agree with them. Since September 11, 2001, we have focused bipartisan effort to improve security for Americans both at home and abroad, and by and large, it’s been successful. It is our first Constitutional duty to ensure the national defense and the safety of Americans, and President Trump’s executive order is doing the opposite. The executive order will create a rallying cry for Islamic extremists to say that America is now engaged in a war against the religion of Islam. No good can come from this. It’s clear that this executive order is putting Eman and her father in harm’s way. So Mr. President and Secretary Kelly, I appeal to your compassion and commonsense. This 12-year-old girl has been extremely vetted. She is not a threat to our country. Let her join her American family. My staff and I are working diligently through the appropriate channels with the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of State to bring Mr. Ali and his daughter home as soon as possible. Thank you, and I yield back the balance of my time. ###
01.31.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after the Ali family joined a class action lawsuit in response to President Donald Trump’s executive order to ban refugees from the United States. “America is a nation of immigrants past and present, and the Ali family is a reflection of America. Mr. Ahmed Ali and his family are not only constituents of mine, but they are U.S. citizens who need our country’s help. Mr. Ali and his wife earned their U.S. citizenship and for seven years, the Ali family has gone through a rigorous vetting process to bring their 12-year-old daughter home to the United States. Their daughter has been legally granted a U.S. immigrant visa to come to the country and become a United States citizen. President Trump’s executive order is preventing this legal process from taking place, and is putting Mr. Ali and his young daughter in harm’s way while they wait in Djibouti. Sadly, there are many others that are facing similar circumstances. It is my intent, as their Congressman, to explore every appropriate option to get them back to the United States safely. “This refugee ban is flawed, both in its lack of adherence to American values and in its technical execution, and could possibly be ruled unconstitutional. It seems the President is fulfilling a campaign promise, and this is being done by burdening those fleeing the horrors of war in their own countries, and without substantially increasing American national security. In doing so, our values and our country, are being put at risk. A bipartisan group of national security experts agree that the executive order does not make Americans safer and could potentially put our country at greater risk for terrorist attacks. I agree with them. “Since September 11, 2001, there has been a focused bipartisan effort to improve security for Americans both at home and abroad, and by and large, it’s been successful. It is our first Constitutional duty to ensure the national defense and the safety of Americans, and President Trump’s executive order is doing the opposite. The executive order will create a rallying cry for Islamic extremists to say that America is now engaged in a war against the religion of Islam. No good can come from this. “It’s clear that this executive order is putting Mr. Ali, his daughter, and others in harm’s way. My staff and I are working diligently through the appropriate channels with the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of State to bring Mr. Ali and his daughter home as soon as possible.” ###
01.30.2017	MERCED, CA - A Los Banos resident and U.S. citizen, Ahmed Ali, and his 12-year-old daughter were stopped in an airport in Djibouti when trying to board a plane to the United States. The girl was issued an American immigrant visa the day before President Donald Trump’s executive order was signed to ban individuals from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, and Yemen. Since the 12-year-old girl went through all the rigorous channels to obtain an immigrant visa, and her parents are U.S. citizens, she would have been admitted as a lawful permanent resident and immediately would have been eligible to file for U.S. citizenship. Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement: “Due to President Trump’s hasty decision making, a 12-year-old girl with parents who are U.S. citizens and Los Banos residents is banned from entering the United States. My office is doing everything within our jurisdiction to help Mr. Ali and his daughter to get home as soon as possible and safely.” “As a member of Congress, my number one priority is Americans’ safety both at home and abroad, and I think it’s obvious that keeping a 12-year-old out of the country is not strengthening the safety of our nation. This executive order is having a devastating impact on hundreds of other individuals and immigrant families that thought the United States would be helping them seek refuge. The vast majority of individuals being detained or prohibited from entering the United States have already been through one of the most extensive vetting processes in the world. Clearly, President Trump’s executive order was not vetted thoroughly by his Administration. Not only is it flawed policy, but it has the potential to be ruled unconstitutional. “Let us never forget that America’s diversity is what makes us strong. Banning individuals, mostly women and children, from entering the United States is not the American way. I will be supporting legislation that will rescind President Trump’s executive order because the executive order is flawed and is not making the American people safer.” ###
01.26.2017	FRESNO, CA - Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement in response to President Donald Trump’s executive order to build a wall on the U.S.-Mexico border. “Building a wall on the U.S.-Mexico border is not a real solution to fixing our broken immigration system and does little, if anything, to improve our national security. To no surprise, Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto reiterated once again that Mexico will not be paying for the wall and cancelled next week’s meeting with President Trump. In his usual fashion, President Trump spoke without careful consideration and expressed support for a 20 percent tax on imports from Mexico to pay for the wall. If implemented, a 20 percent import tax on Mexican goods would accelerate a trade war between the United States and Mexico. We saw similar effects of these types of trade wars most recently during the U.S.-Mexico trucking dispute, which took place for seven years between 2009-2015, when Mexico legally imposed retaliatory tariffs on U.S. exports. The California agriculture industry bore the brunt of those retaliatory tariffs. If President Trump and Republicans in Congress move forward with putting a 20 percent tax on Mexican imports, then California products are likely to be immediately impacted. “In addition to the economic effects of building a wall and imposing a tax on Mexican goods, immigrant children and their families are fearful of being deported. President Trump’s executive order only further divides our country and raises alarm among immigrant families. “President Trump’s first week in office has demonstrated his lack of diplomatic experience, which is greatly alarming to me and to U.S. allies. Off-the-cuff remarks may work as a private citizen, but are not appropriate, raise alarm, and have the potential to cause economic calamity when coming from the President of the United States. I genuinely would like to work with the President, but I will not stand-by as he works to implement policies that hurt immigrant communities, negatively impact California’s agriculture industry, and weaken our nation’s economy.” Mexico is the United States’ second largest trading partner. For more information regarding the U.S.-Mexico trucking dispute and a list of affected products, please click here. ###
01.24.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - On Saturday, January 21, 2017, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) gave the Merced County Sheriff’s Posse a tour of the United State Capitol Building. On Inauguration Day, Americans celebrate our nation’s democratic principles and the peaceful transition of power. It was truly an honor to have the Merced County Sheriff’s Posse representing the San Joaquin Valley in the President’s Inauguration Day parade,” said Rep. Jim Costa. “On Saturday, I had the pleasure of taking the Sheriff’s Posse on a tour of the U.S. Capitol Building, and we had the opportunity to go on the platform of where the swearing-in of President Donald Trump took place. It was special to have Sheriff Vern Warnke, the Sheriff’s Posse and their families in Washington, D.C. to participate in a historical moment for our nation.” "Words can't express just how grateful and blessed I feel to have been able to participate is such a historic event," exclaims Merced County Sheriff Vern Warnke. "Collectively, the Posse and I, count the entire experience as amazing. Our hearts are filled with joy and gratitude to all who made this trip possible and a huge success. A special thanks to Rep. Jim Costa for his continuous support and belief in law enforcement and the Sheriff’s Posse." ###
01.20.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement on the Inauguration of President Donald Trump. “The peaceful transition of power is fundamental to America’s Democratic principles. As an elected member of the Legislative Branch, a co-equal branch of government, I believe it is my role and responsibility to attend the President’s swearing-in ceremony. “Congress must focus on governing, not on harmful partisan rhetoric. Let me be clear, I do not condone, nor am I downplaying the unacceptable and inflammatory statements made by President Donald Trump. Of course I take issue with President Trump’s malicious statements that have been directed toward women, minorities, immigrants and others. But the fact is if we are going to be successful in moving our country forward, then Congress must find a way to work with President Trump, and that’s what I will do. “San Joaquin Valley residents are Americans first, not Democrats or Republicans. They have expressed how tired they are of the gridlock and partisan politics, and I share that intense frustration. I remain committed to finding areas of compromise by working on a bipartisan basis with my colleagues in Congress and the Trump Administration because it’s the only way we can solve problems and heal our divided nation.” ###
12.16.2016	FRESNO, CA - Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation (WIIN) Act was signed by the President and enacted into law. The WIIN Act includes language to assist in reducing the impacts of California’s drought crisis and to build additional long-term drought resiliency: “The implementation of this legislation will improve California's water system as we know it,” said Rep. Jim Costa. “Its enactment is a positive step forward in a necessary series of efforts to create more reliable water supplies for the Valley and all Californians. Getting to this point required hard work and compromise from both sides of the aisle.” Costa continued saying, “It is important for the California Congressional delegation to continue working together so we can build on this progress. Ensuring a reliable water supply for the people of the San Joaquin Valley has always been, and will remain, one of my highest priorities in Congress. Successes like this one can only happen when Congress works on a bipartisan basis. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues in the House, Senate, and upcoming Administration to implement permanent solutions that ensure California has a dynamic water system for all the diverse needs of the state in the 21st century.” “The authorizations included in this legislation are of significant importance in our ongoing effort to eventually complete the New Exchequer Storage Enhancement Project,” said Hicham ElTal, MID Deputy General Manager of Water Supply Rights and Supply. “Significant work remains. However, MID is absolutely better positioned to move forward with the project as a result of this legislation. We are absolutely grateful for the work done by our local Congress Member Jim Costa. He and his staff have remained engaged with MID throughout this effort. We also appreciate the support we have received from other members of the Valley delegation of congressional representatives. Further, we greatly appreciate the efforts of Senator Dianne Feinstein. We look forward to all of their continued support as we proceed on this project.” Information regarding the legislation Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation (WIIN) Act: The legislation authorizes the following California water projects: Merced County Impacts: The bill authorizes a feasibility study for the Merced Streams Group project that was originally authorized in 1944 and has not yet been completed. Since 1997, 8 floods in the region have caused significant damage to communities in Merced County. This study, when complete, will evaluate and provide recommendations to move beyond the substandard 50-year flood planning to a much higher standard of flood protection. Expedited completion of the Lower San Joaquin River flood risk management report. California funding, reports and projects: $1.5 billion in Flood Risk Management funds for the American River and West Sacramento projects $20 million in Hurricane and Storm Damage Risk reduction funds to San Diego County $70.5 million in Flood Risk Management, Ecosystem Restoration and Recreation funds for the South San Francisco Bay shoreline $375 million in Ecosystem Restoration and Recreation funds for the LA River Expedited completion of the report for the Sacramento River Flood Control System Authorization of the feasibility studies for the Cache Creek Settling Basin, the Coyote Valley Dam, the Del Rosa Channel, the Mission-Zanja Channel, and the Soboba Indian Reservation The California drought language includes short- and long-term provisions: Short-term provisions: Delta Cross Channel Gates - Federal agencies must open the Delta Cross Channel Gates for as long as possible consistent with the State Water Board’s orders. This may allow the agencies to open the Gates during the daytime when salmon are often not migrating in significant numbers, which could allow additional water to be pumped without harming fish or water quality. Turbidity measures - By taking measures to manage turbidity and protect Delta smelt during the first storm-induced flush of sediment out of the Delta each winter, the agencies can both protect the fish and allow for more steady pumping the remainder of the year. 1:1 inflow-to-export ratio, solely for water transfers - Solely for voluntary transfers, sales and exchanges, allows agencies to use a 1:1 “inflow-to-export ratio” for San Joaquin River flows in April and May for the duration of the drought. By stretching water supplies through water transfers, agricultural districts that are short on water can use transfers to make up for reduced deliveries, while that same “block” of water moving through the Delta can help fish and potentially assist in the restoration of the Delta. Expediting reviews of water transfers and temporary barriers - Expedites review of water transfers and temporary barriers in the Delta, which could help move limited water to where it is needed, manage salinity and improve water quality. Extended window for water transfers - Extends the window for water transfers by five months, from April 1 to November 30 (currently July 1 to September 30), if the extended transfers can be done consistent with the biological opinions. Scientifically Supported Implementation of OMR (Old and Middle River) Flow Requirements - Science based on real-time monitoring governs the level of pumping within the ranges allowed by the biological opinions. The bill requires the agencies to explain why pumping at the high end of the smelt biological opinion would cause adverse effects to fish, if they decide to pump at lower levels. Temporary Operational Flexibility for Storm Events - authorizes the agencies to increase pumping during winter storms, so that excess flows from storms may be captured. Consultation on Coordinated Operations – Provides for increased transparency during consultation on the biological opinions by soliciting input from water districts and those environmental groups that already participate in implementation of the biological opinions. Long-term provisions: $558 million for storage, water recycling and desalination projects. $335 million for water storage projects. – Funding can go to either state-led groundwater or surface storage projects, or to federally owned surface storage projects. $30 million for desalination projects over 5 years. $50 million for competitive grant funding for water recycling, wastewater reuse and reclamation of naturally impaired ground and surface water. $36 million for projects to improve California’s ecosystems, like the acquisition of additional water supplies for the Grasslands Ecological Preserve in Merced County, and additional salmon habitat throughout California. Increases WaterSMART funding authorization by $100 million. ###
12.09.2016	FRESNO, CA – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) and Valley water and agriculture leaders held a press conference to urge the United States Senate to support the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation (WIIN) Act with language to assist in reducing the impacts of California’s drought crisis and to build additional long-term drought resiliency. “The bill is a positive step in the right direction for the people of the San Joaquin Valley and all Californians,” said Congressman Jim Costa. “As we all know too well in the Valley, due to the combination of the drought and flawed policies, hundreds of thousands of acres of productive agriculture land has gone fallow and thousands of families do not have water to drink, cook, or bathe. I sincerely hope that this legislation is passed out of the Senate and that it gets signed by the President immediately.” “If this bill is enacted, it will be the result of long tireless work by Members of Congress on both sides of Capitol Hill and both sides of the aisle,” said Tom Birmingham, General Manager, Westlands Water District. “The measure overwhelming passed by the House on a vote of 360-61, represents a bi-partisan compromise that will bring interim relief to communities all over the state while we pursue long term solutions to meet the water needs of the San Joaquin Valley and the state.” “We want to express our sincere gratitude to Rep. Costa, his staff, and his colleagues in the House and Senate who have worked tirelessly for more than three years to improve the flexibility and operations of our water system during this extreme drought,” said Jason Phillips, CEO, Friant Water Authority. “The California water provisions in the WIIN Act provide important, but modest, short-term relief for the Central Valley. No matter the outcome of the forthcoming Senate vote, much work is left to be done to resolve California’s most persistent water challenges, and we look forward to working with Rep. Costa, other Members, and the new Administration on this issue in 2017.” “Yesterday’s vote on the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) was hopefully a sign of good things to come,” said Ret. Congressman George Radanovich, President, California Fresh Fruit Association. “From my time in Congress, I understand the difficulty in bringing people together, finding compromise and knowing when this is the best that can be done. Yesterday’s WRDA bill is not perfect, nor will it solve the entirety of California’s water issues, but it is a step forward and will help ease the pain inflicted upon many Californians during this long drought, including many of the growers that I represent.” “I would like to applaud the entire Valley delegation for their continued support in helping pass this overdue legislation, said Ryan Jacobsen, CEO, Fresno County Farm Bureau. “California’s broken water system needs to be addressed. For two generations, we have done very little. Thousands of productive agricultural acres in Fresno County have gone fallow as a result. This is unacceptable. Water equals jobs in our economy, and WIIN produces water.” “For the first time in a generation, thanks to Congressman Costa and his colleagues in the House and Senate we have a real opportunity to modernize our water infrastructure and recognize science that can assist all in providing water for our environment, families, communities and farms,” said Joel Nelsen, President, California Citrus Mutual. “We don’t rely upon 1960 model cars nor wear fashions from that time thus our subjectivity surrounding legislation from that era needs to be replaced with legitimate data. Our aged infrastructure designed for a smaller California populace requires expansion. Our sincere thanks to all for helping take our state into the future.” “I would like to thank the Valley Congressional delegation, Congressmen Jim Costa, David Valadao, and Kevin McCarthy and Senator Dianne Feinstein for their hard work,” said Steve Chedester, Executive Director, San Joaquin River Exchange Contractors Water Authority. “This legislation is critical for our water supply. I look forward to working with the new Administration, rolling up our sleeves, and finding new solutions for regulatory relief.” The Senate is expected to vote on the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation (WIIN) Act tonight. ### ###
12.09.2016	Fresno, CA – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after the Senate passed the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation (WIIN) Act with language to assist in reducing the impacts of California’s drought crisis and to build additional long-term drought resiliency. “The passage of this legislation in both the House and Senate is significant for the entire state of California,” said Rep. Jim Costa. “With the enactment of this bill, California can begin to repair its broken water system and more water will be delivered to Valley agriculture and communities. My House and Senate colleagues and the people of the Valley have fought long and hard to get this legislation passed out of both chambers. Finally, drought stricken communities, farmers, and farm workers will feel some relief. I hope the President acts swiftly and signs the legislation as soon as possible.” ###
12.08.2016	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation (WIIN) Act with language to assist in reducing the impacts of California’s drought crisis and to build additional long-term drought resiliency: “Today’s House passage of California water legislation is a win for the San Joaquin Valley. The bipartisan Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act earned broad support from Democrats and Republicans in the California delegation, and I hope my Senate colleagues will join Senator Feinstein in voting for this important legislation. I strongly urge the Senate and the President to act quickly, so the short-term provisions, like authorizing increased pumping during storms in the winter months, can be implemented immediately. More water will be captured and delivered to Valley communities and farms as a result of the enactment of this legislation. “Additionally, this legislation authorizes a feasibility study for the Merced Streams Group, and will provide flood protection for the residents of Merced. There is also modifying language in the bill that would provide for Merced Irrigation District to advance funds so it could complete a study to evaluate raising the spillway gates at New Exchequer Dam. “The status quo in California is a result of flawed policies and five years in a row of record breaking drought, and current conditions will get exponentially worse if we do nothing. This bill will change the status quo and is good for all Californians, farmers, farm workers as well as the environment.” Rep. Costa spoke on the House floor during debate in support of the water infrastructure legislation. His remarks can be viewed here. Yesterday, Rep. Costa spoke on the House floor to bring attention to the human impacts of drought conditions in California’s San Joaquin Valley. His remarks can be viewed here. The California drought language includes short- and long-term provisions: Short-term provisions: Delta Cross Channel Gates - Federal agencies must open the Delta Cross Channel Gates for as long as possible consistent with the State Water Board’s orders. This may allow the agencies to open the Gates during the daytime when salmon are often not migrating in significant numbers, which could allow additional water to be pumped without harming fish or water quality. Turbidity measures - By taking measures to manage turbidity and protect Delta smelt during the first storm-induced flush of sediment out of the Delta each winter, the agencies can both protect the fish and allow for more steady pumping the remainder of the year. 1:1 inflow-to-export ratio, solely for water transfers - Solely for voluntary transfers, sales and exchanges, allows agencies to use a 1:1 “inflow-to-export ratio” for San Joaquin River flows in April and May for the duration of the drought. By stretching water supplies through water transfers, agricultural districts that are short on water can use transfers to make up for reduced deliveries, while that same “block” of water moving through the Delta can help fish and potentially assist in the restoration of the Delta. The agencies can only use the 1:1 ratio for transfers if environmental protections, including the following, are satisfied: There are no adverse effects on endangered species beyond those anticipated by the biological opinions. The transfer water getting the benefit of the 1:1 ratio must be additional flow on top of the regular flow of the river. The environmental effects of the proposed transfer, sale, or exchange are consistent with environmental effects permissible under applicable law. Expediting reviews of transfers and temporary barriers - Expedites review of transfers and temporary barriers in the Delta, which could help move limited water to where it is needed, manage salinity and improve water quality. Extended window for water transfers - Extends the window for transfers by five months, from April 1 to November 30 (currently July 1 to September 30), if the extended transfers can be done consistent with the biological opinions. Scientifically Supported Implementation of OMR (Old and Middle River) Flow Requirements - Science based on real-time monitoring governs the level of pumping within the ranges allowed by the biological opinions. The bill requires the agencies to explain why pumping at the high end of the smelt biological opinion would cause adverse effects to fish that violate the environmental protection mandate (described below), if they decide to pump at a lower levels. Temporary Operational Flexibility for Storm Events - authorizes the agencies to increase pumping during winter storms, so that excess flows from storms may be captured. Consultation on Coordinated Operations – Provides for increased transparency during consultation on the biological opinions by soliciting input from water districts and those environmental groups that already participate in implementation of the biological opinions. Environmental Protection Mandate – The bill prohibits agencies from taking any action that would cause adverse effects to fish beyond those effects allowable under the biological opinion. Long-term provisions: $558 million for storage, water recycling and desalination projects. $335 million for water storage projects. – Funding can go to either state-led groundwater or surface storage projects, or to federally owned surface storage projects. $30 million for desalination projects over 5 years. $50 million for competitive grant funding for water recycling, wastewater reuse and reclamation of naturally impaired ground and surface water. Increases WaterSMART funding authorization by $100 million. The legislation authorizes the following California water projects: Merced County Impacts The bill authorizes a feasibility study for the Merced Streams Group project that was originally authorized in 1944 and has not yet been completed. Since 1997, 8 floods in the region have caused significant damage to communities in Merced County. This study, when complete, will evaluate and provide recommendations to move beyond the substandard 50-year flood planning to a much higher standard of flood protection. Expedited completion of the Lower San Joaquin River flood risk management report. California funding, reports and projects $1.5 billion in Flood Risk Management funds for the American River and West Sacramento projects $20 million in Hurricane and Storm Damage Risk reduction funds to San Diego County $70.5 million in Flood Risk Management, Ecosystem Restoration and Recreation funds for the South San Francisco Bay shoreline $375 million in Ecosystem Restoration and Recreation funds for the LA River Expedited completion of the report for the Sacramento River Flood Control System Authorization of the feasibility studies for the Cache Creek Settling Basin, the Coyote Valley Dam, the Del Rosa Channel, the Mission-Zanja Channel, and the Soboba Indian Reservation ###
12.05.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after the Water Infrastructure Improvements Act for the Nation (WIIN) Act was introduced with language to assist in reducing the impacts of California’s drought crisis and to build additional long-term drought resiliency: “Today, effective and bipartisan language to fix California’s broken water system was introduced as part of the Water Infrastructure Improvements Act for the Nation (WIIN) Act. I applaud my House and Senate colleagues, Republicans and Democrats, who I have been working with for years negotiating these provisions, which are fair and balanced. “If this language is enacted into law, California is authorized to receive additional federal resources to improve water infrastructure, including investments in additional storage, increased water recycling, and water desalination. Additionally, there are short-term provisions to improve water system operations, so more water can be made available to Valley communities, farmers, and farm workers. “California is dealing with a devastating drought and may soon face six years in a row of record breaking dry conditions. The people of California, farmers, and our environment will all benefit if this legislation is enacted. As I have said time and again, continuing to operate under the same flawed policies and failing to provide funding for desperately needed water infrastructure is never to going to solve our water problems. Finally, something has the possibility of getting done, and all regions of state, especially those that have been most affected by the drought, will see positive impacts if this package is signed into law. “While I appreciate the hard work that went into introducing this legislation, we are long overdue in getting here. Fixing California’s broken water system has been a political issue that has gone on for far too long. Families in California’s San Joaquin Valley are suffering without water and hundreds of thousands of acres of productive agriculture land have gone fallow. I sincerely hope that my colleagues will move past the hyperbole and look at the facts - this legislation is balanced and will provide benefits for cities, the agriculture industry, and the environment. “I urge my colleagues in the House and Senate to support this legislation and act swiftly, so it can be sent to the President’s desk for signature. Time is of the essence. The drought stricken communities in California, especially those in the San Joaquin Valley, deserve for this legislation to be passed immediately.” The California drought language includes short- and long-term provisions: Short-term provisions: Delta Cross Channel Gates - Federal agencies must open the Delta Cross Channel Gates for as long as possible consistent with the State Water Board’s orders. This may allow the agencies to open the Gates during the daytime when salmon are often not migrating in significant numbers, which could allow additional water to be pumped without harming fish or water quality. Turbidity measures - By taking measures to manage turbidity and protect Delta smelt during the first storm-induced flush of sediment out of the Delta each winter, the agencies can both protect the fish and allow for more steady pumping the remainder of the year. 1:1 inflow-to-export ratio, solely for water transfers - Solely for voluntary transfers, sales and exchanges, allows agencies to use a 1:1 “inflow-to-export ratio” for San Joaquin River flows in April and May for the duration of the drought. By stretching water supplies through water transfers, agricultural districts that are short on water can use transfers to make up for reduced deliveries, while that same “block” of water moving through the Delta can help fish and potentially assist in the restoration of the Delta. The agencies can only use the 1:1 ratio for transfers if environmental protections, including the following, are satisfied: There are no adverse effects on endangered species beyond those anticipated by the biological opinions. The transfer water getting the benefit of the 1:1 ratio must be additional flow on top of the regular flow of the river. The environmental effects of the proposed transfer, sale, or exchange are consistent with environmental effects permissible under applicable law. Expediting reviews of transfers and temporary barriers - Expedites review of transfers and temporary barriers in the Delta, which could help move limited water to where it is needed, manage salinity and improve water quality. Extended window for water transfers - Extends the window for transfers by five months, from April 1 to November 30 (currently July 1 to September 30), if the extended transfers can be done consistent with the biological opinions. Scientifically Supported Implementation of OMR (Old and Middle River) Flow Requirements - Science based on real-time monitoring governs the level of pumping within the ranges allowed by the biological opinions. The bill requires the agencies to explain why pumping at the high end of the smelt biological opinion would cause adverse effects to fish that violate the environmental protection mandate (described below), if they decide to pump at a lower levels. Temporary Operational Flexibility for Storm Events - authorizes the agencies to increase pumping during winter storms, so that excess flows from storms may be captured. Consultation on Coordinated Operations – Provides for increased transparency during consultation on the biological opinions by soliciting input from water districts and those environmental groups that already participate in implementation of the biological opinions. Environmental Protection Mandate – The bill prohibits agencies from taking any action that would cause adverse effects to fish beyond those effects allowable under the biological opinion. Long-term provisions: $558 million for storage, water recycling and desalination projects. $335 million for water storage projects. – Funding can go to either state-led groundwater or surface storage projects, or to federally owned surface storage projects. $30 million for desalination projects over 5 years. $50 million for competitive grant funding for water recycling, wastewater reuse and reclamation of naturally impaired ground and surface water. Increases WaterSMART funding authorization by $100 million. ###
11.30.2016	WASHINGTON, DC—Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) announced a holiday card drive for Valley law enforcement, service members and veterans. As we celebrate the holiday season, Rep. Costa invites residents of the 16th Congressional District to show appreciation to those keep our community and country safe. The cards will be delivered to wounded service members and veterans receiving care at the Fresno VA Medical Center and to local law enforcement agencies. “The San Joaquin Valley is home to thousands of selfless and brave law enforcement officers, military members, and veterans,” said Rep. Jim Costa. “This holiday season, I’m holding a holiday card drive and encourage Valley residents to join in sending notes of gratitude to ensure that our local heroes know they are always in our thoughts and prayers.” This year, Rep. Costa is extending his annual holiday card drive for service members and veterans to also include local law enforcement. Constituents are encouraged to drop cards off at Rep. Costa’s Fresno or Merced district offices by December 19th. If mailing cards, please place them in a separate envelope and send to: Congressman Jim Costa “Holiday Cards for Local Heroes” 855 M St, Suite 940 Fresno, CA 93721 All cards should be addressed on the outside of the envelope with “Dear Hero” or “Dear Veteran,” signed with a few lines of appreciation, and placed in unsealed envelopes. Please do not use or make cards that include glitter. For more information, please contact Rep. Costa’s office at (559) 495-1620 or (209) 384-1620. ###
11.29.2016	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX), and Congressman Jim Costa (D-CA) released the following statement following the passage of the bi-partisan Justice for All Reauthorization Act of 2016 (JFA) by the House. JFA strengthens crime victims’ rights and programs, by increasing access to restitution to federal crime victims, and reauthorizes programs used to notify crime victims that they have the right to be heard in court, with legal assistance. The Act further reduces the rape kit backlog and provides resources for forensic labs, while protecting the innocent by improving access to post-conviction DNA testing. “The Justice for All Reauthorization Act would strengthen policies and programs to provide better support for victims of crime throughout the country, especially those who live in rural regions, like California’s San Joaquin Valley,” said Congressman Jim Costa. “As a founder and co-chair of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus, protecting the innocent and ensuring that survivors of violent crime receive the necessary services to heal is one of my top priorities in Congress. I applaud the bipartisan passage of the Justice for All Reauthorization Act in the House, and I hope the Senate acts swiftly, so it becomes law before the end of this Congress.” “Today the House took the necessary steps forward in strengthening protection for victims of crime by passing the Justice for All Reauthorization Act,” said Congressman Ted Poe. “As a former prosecutor and judge, I have had personal experience working with victims of crime whose lives and families' lives have been torn apart. Congress must continue to provide resources to law enforcement and crime labs in order to protect the innocent. I expect the Senate to quickly pass this amended version of Justice for All. Protecting victims of crime should be a top priority.” The Justice for All Reauthorization Act works to improve the administration of criminal justice programs, by increasing accountability for federal funds, requiring the Justice Department to assist state and local governments to improve their indigent defense systems. Additionally, it ensures the implementation of the Prison Rape Elimination Act. Representatives Poe and Costa are founding members and co-chairmen of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus (VRC). Rep. Costa spoke on the House floor in support of the Justice for All Reauthorization Act. Video of Rep. Costa’s speech can be found here. ###
11.17.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) joined Rep. Adam Schiff (CA-28) and California Representatives in introducing the National Guard Bonus Repayment and Financial Relief Act. The legislation would halt the Army from recouping funds from members of the Army National Guard who, in good faith, received bonuses and education benefits that they were not eligible to receive. Last month, Rep. Costa pledged to take legislative action on this issue when Congress reconvened. “Ensuring that the California National Guard servicemen and women who are victims of the bonus claw back are protected is priority number one,” said Rep. Jim Costa. “While Secretary Carter has ordered the suspension of all efforts to collect repayments, Congress should pass this bill to guarantee that in fact happens. American service members and their families sacrifice everything for this country. Enacting this legislation would right the wrong committed by bad actors within the Department of Defense and prevent any further harm to our service members and their families.” In October, Secretary Ash Carter ordered the suspension of all efforts to collect repayments from affected soldiers and committed to establishing a streamlined, centralized process by January 1st for service members to seek relief from repayment. Secretary Carter committed to completing the decision-making process on these cases no later than July 1. In addition to halting the recoupment of funds, this legislation would reimburse, with interest, soldiers who have already repaid the government. Companion legislation was introduced in the Senate by Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA). ###
11.09.2016	FRESNO, CA – Today, Rep. Jim Costa released the following statement on the 2016 election: “In the United States, the American people put their full faith and trust in one another to elect our President. “Secretary Hillary Clinton made history as the first female Presidential nominee of a major political party and her tireless efforts throughout her career have resulted in breaking glass ceilings for millions of Americans. I commend and thank Secretary Clinton for serving our nation with pride and grace. “President-elect Trump has called for unity among the American people, and it is my sincere hope that as President, he brings people together. Let’s focus on ending the divisive rhetoric, so we can move forward as a united, strong country that provides economic and social opportunity for all Americans and delivers on the dreams and values on which this country was founded. “I have spent my career building bridges between my colleagues on both sides of aisle to solve the problems that face our nation and our Valley and I will continue to do so. Working together, we can ensure the safety of Americans, repair a broken water system and fix our immigration system. We need to continue building a robust economy and making investments in young people and crumbling infrastructure. Additionally, as President-elect Trump has indicated, ensuring that veterans have the very best care will continue to be one of our top priorities. “The United States is the greatest county in the world, and together, we will make a positive difference. America’s best days are ahead of us.” ###
10.26.2016	FRESNO, CA – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after Secretary of Defense Ash Carter announced that he ordered the Defense and Accounting Service to suspend the collection of reenlistment bonuses from affected California National Guard Members: “Ensuring that U.S. service men and women are not held responsible for the mistakes and misconduct of the Department of Defense has been my top priority,” said Rep. Costa. “I joined my House colleagues in urging Secretary Ash Carter to halt collections on enlistment bonuses immediately, and I welcome the news that payments have been suspended.” Costa continued saying, “when Congress reconvenes next month, I look forward to working with my colleagues on a bipartisan solution to fix the wrongdoings of the responsible parties at the Department of Defense. American soldiers sacrifice everything to serve our country in its greatest time of need, and it is crucial for the payments to be waived so the U.S. government can earn back the trust of those affected.” ###
10.25.2016	FRESNO, CA – Today, Rep. Jim Costa released the following statement in response to the Department of Defense collecting enlistment bonuses paid to American soldiers. “Our nation’s heroes deserve the utmost appreciation and respect,” said Rep. Jim Costa. “Asking that soldiers repay tens of thousands of dollars in bonuses is not the American way, and I strongly urge Department of Defense Secretary Ash Carter to waive the debts of the American soldiers who are victims of negligence by the DOD. At the very least, all debt payments should be put on hold until Congress considers legislative proposals to ensure that soldiers and their families do not face financial hardship.” Rep. Costa joined his House colleagues in sending a letter to Defense Secretary Carter and General Joseph Lengyel, Chief of the National Guard Bureau. The letter asks for swift attention to halt collections and cancel repayment requirements before the end of the year. ###
10.25.2016	FRESNO, CA – Today, Rep. Jim Costa announced that Centro La Familia has been awarded a $327,000 grant from the U.S. Department of Justice Office on Violence Against Women. The Sexual Assault Culturally Specific Program grant creates, maintains, and expands sustainable sexual assault services provided by organizations that are uniquely situated to respond to the needs of sexual assault victims from culturally specific populations. “Disclosing the trauma of sexual abuse can be especially challenging for survivors, and this funding targets resources specifically for Latino survivors, so they have a safe place to get the necessary services to begin the healing process,” said Rep. Jim Costa. “From breaking down language barriers to specializing in helping Latino victims of sexual violence, Centro La Familia offers a place of comfort for Latino survivors, and this grant will allow them to continue serving an often underserved population in our San Joaquin Valley.” “As our organization has provided sexual assault services over the years we have learned that victims require a complex array of resources and support in order to gain control over their lives. The assistance they need is not as simple as providing antibiotics for a cold or stitches for a cut. We need to provide consistent, culturally sensitive support that will help empower them to overcome the trauma they’ve experienced and rebuild their lives; becoming survivors and not victims” said Margarita Rocha, Executive Director of Centro La Familia Advocacy Services. Established in 1972, Centro La Familia Advocacy Services (CLFA) is a nonprofit community-based organization dedicated to serving unserved/underserved communities in Fresno County. CLFA’s mission is “to empower low-income people to access life sustaining resources” and through this, become self-sufficient through education, training and social services. Services include Victim Advocacy, Health & Wellness, Family Strengthening, Policy & Leadership Development, and Immigration. All CLFA staff provide services and link clients to available resources such as victim advocacy, mental health, food, housing, health insurance, medical assistance and more. ###
09.29.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the Fiscal Year 2017 Continuing Resolution. The legislation includes the FY17 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act as well as funding for Zika response efforts. The Continuing Resolution will maintain government funding at its current spend rate through December 9, 2016. “Passing the Fiscal Year 2017 Continuing Resolution took bipartisan effort and hard work from individuals on both sides of the aisle,” said Rep. Costa. “We are averting a government shutdown and providing secure, full year funding, to better serve our nation’s veterans. However, I am extremely frustrated by Republicans’ desire to play politics with keeping our government funded and providing money for Zika response and research. The $1.1 billion for Zika response is long overdue, and Congress should never again withhold funding to address a serious public health and safety issue in order to leverage other political priorities.” Costa continued saying, “As my House colleagues and I go back to our districts, I will be continuing my conversations with them and others in the Senate, Administration, and Governor’s office to get a California water bill enacted because the livelihoods of the people in San Joaquin Valley depend on it. When Congress returns in November, I am hopeful that Republicans and Democrats will come together to pass California water legislation as well as a spending measure that funds the government for the remainder of the fiscal year.” FY2017 Continuing Resolution contains: $1.1 billion to respond to the Zika virus $394 million to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to support mosquito eradication, surveillance, laboratory testing, education & outreach, as well as to reimburse state and local public health departments. $397 million to the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA) to support advanced research and the development of vaccines, therapeutics, and diagnostics. $141 million to support health care services. $145.5 million to support international health care services, including vector control activities and technologies, vaccines, diagnostics, and building up health care infrastructure. $30 million for personnel costs for the Department of State and U.S. Agency for International Development. $7.7 billion for Military Construction $5 billion for Military Construction funding for the Active Components. $672.6 million for Reserve Components. $1.3 billion for Family Housing construction. $240 million for the Base Realignment and Closure account. $74.4 billion for Veterans Affairs $66.4 billion for VA medical services accounts. $1.3 billion for medical services and Medical facilities. $675 million for Medical and Prosthetic Research. $528 million for Construction and Major Projects. $345 million for VA General Administration. $4.2 billion for VA Information Technology. Disability Claims Backlog – The bill continues monthly reporting requirements from regional offices on disability claims processing performance and quality reports on remediation efforts at the poorest performing regional offices. ###
09.28.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after the House passed the Water Resources Development Act (H.R. 5303) to complete water infrastructure projects in California and throughout the United States. On September 15, the Senate passed a similar version of the legislation, S. 2848. “The Water Resources Development Act has big wins for California and specifically, in the San Joaquin Valley, there are important water projects that will finally move forward if this legislation becomes law,” said Rep. Costa. “In addition to language that authorizes a feasibility study for the Merced Streams Group, there is also modifying language in the bill that would provide for Merced Irrigation District to advance funds so it could complete a study to evaluate raising the spillway gates at New Exchequer Dam. An additional 10,000 acre-feet of water would be made available annually to serve Merced County if the spillway gates are raised at New Exchequer Dam. This is the type of legislation we need to help provide relief to the farmers and communities in California that have been unfairly impacted by five years of drought conditions.” Costa continued saying, “The drought in California is not over, nor has this Congress addressed the underlying reasons for the disproportionate impact on San Joaquin Valley communities. We still need a California water bill enacted, which will create a rational, balanced water policy in the short- and long-term that benefits California’s communities and improves its environment.” Merced County Impacts The bill authorizes a feasibility study for the Merced Streams Group project that was originally authorized in 1944 and has not yet been completed. Since 1997, 8 floods in the region have caused significant damage to communities in Merced County. This study, when complete, will evaluate and provide recommendations to move beyond the substandard 50-year flood planning to a much higher standard of flood protection. Expedited completion of the Lower San Joaquin River flood risk management report. California funding, reports and projects $1.5 billion in Flood Risk Management funds for the American River and West Sacramento projects $20 million in Hurricane and Storm Damage Risk reduction funds to San Diego County $69.5 million in Flood Risk Management, Ecosystem Restoration and Recreation funds for the South San Francisco Bay shoreline $375 million in Ecosystem Restoration and Recreation funds for the LA River Expedited completion of the report for the Sacramento River Flood Control System Authorization of the feasibility studies for the Cache Creek Settling Basin, the Coyote Valley Dam, the Del Rosa Channel, the Mission-Zanja Channel, and the Soboba Indian Reservation ###
09.23.2016	Fresno, CA – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) announced that the city of Fresno is a recipient of a $3,044,202 investment award from the Economic Development Administration (EDA). The grant funding is anticipated to create 327 jobs and $35 million in private investment could be leveraged. “Cities need the appropriate infrastructure, safe roads and efficient drainage systems, to attract businesses and support a growing economy, said Rep. Jim Costa. “Appropriating funds for our nation’s water and transportation infrastructure is my top priority in Congress, and I applaud Mayor Swearengin for ensuring that important investments are made in Fresno’s infrastructure. This federal funding will have real, positive, and long-term impacts in our community and throughout the San Joaquin Valley.” “This is exciting news – not only because it’s a confirmation of our good working relationship with the Obama Administration to bring much needed infrastructure money to Fresno, but that the improvements it will pay for directly impact job creation and business growth. It’s just the start of what we believe will be continued investment and advancement in our city,” said Mayor Ashley Swearengin. This EDA grant award is a competitive grant. The funding will be for investment in the construction of critical road and storm drain infrastructure. Improving the city’s infrastructure is necessary to provide access to an industrial area serving major businesses in Fresno County. The new and improved roadway will enhance the marketability of the San Joaquin Valley region and its assets by enabling existing companies to expand while attracting new industrial development leading to much needed employment opportunities with higher pay for the region’s workforce. ###
09.21.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Jim Costa’s (CA-16) bill language in the Hmong Veterans’ Service Recognition Act was introduced as part of the Supporting, Employing, and Recognizing Veterans in Communities Everywhere (SERVICE) Act, HR 6062. The SERVICE Act was introduced by Acting Ranking Member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, Rep. Mark Takano (CA-41). “The inclusion of the Hmong Veterans’ Service Recognition Act in the SERVICE Act is a positive step toward ensuring that Hmong veterans receive the recognition they deserve,” said Rep. Jim Costa. “To get laws enacted, consensus is needed amongst lawmakers from all backgrounds and seniority levels. I am pleased that Acting Ranking Member Takano has made the recognition of Hmong veterans one of his priorities. In addition to extending burial benefits for Hmong and Lao veterans, the SERVICE Act would improve veterans’ healthcare services, housing resources, and education benefits. I urge the Republican House leadership to consider this legislation for a vote because if enacted, the SERVICE Act would give Hmong veterans the recognition they deserve and positively impact the lives of millions of American heroes.” The SERVICE Act: Extends burial benefits to Hmong and Lao veterans who served beside U.S. Armed Forces during the Vietnam War; Improves and streamlines the process for major VA construction and facilities leasing; Improves communication between VA and private health care providers, and streamlines the ability of the VA to contract with community providers; Increases incentives for businesses to hire veterans and creates a pilot program to boost job training for positions in the manufacturing industry; and Increases oversight of schools eligible to receive GI Bill Benefits and increases counseling and access to reliable information for student veterans. For more information about the SERVICE Act, read the full text, fact sheet, and outline. ###
09.16.2016	MODESTO, CA — Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16), Rep. Jeff Denham (CA-10), and Rep. Tom McClintock (CA-4) today submitted a letter to the California State Water Resources Control Board (SWRCB) in response to its revised Draft Substitute Environmental Document (SED) that supports of Phase 1 of the Bay-Delta Water Quality Control Plan. Reps. Costa, Denham, and McClintock released the following statement: “It is completely unacceptable that the State Water Resources Control Board failed to hold public hearings in the communities most affected by this proposal. The people, the farmers and communities in the San Joaquin Valley have borne the brunt of the impacts of five years of drought conditions and this proposal, if adopted, would only result in further harm to the economy of the region. The SWRCB must extend the comment period for at least 90 days because the people of San Joaquin, Stanislaus, and Merced Counties deserve an open and transparent process where their voices can be heard. Furthermore, it is imperative that before any additional releases are ordered, the SWRCB must prove that the anticipated ecological benefits outlined in this proposal will be realized.” A copy of the signed letter is available here. ###
09.15.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) was recognized by The National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB), the nation’s leading advocate for small businesses, with the Guardian of Small Business Award for his outstanding support of America’s small business owners in the 114th Congress. Lawmakers are recognized with the award once every two years. “It is an honor to be recognized with the National Federation of Independent Business’ Guardian of Small Business Award,” said Rep. Jim Costa. “I am proud to support legislative efforts that benefit hard working small business owners and their employees. It is imperative that policies continue to be implemented to help grow small businesses like farms, dairies, retailers, and restaurants, because they are the backbone of our San Joaquin Valley economy.” “Many elected officials claim that they are champions of small business, but our Guardian Award shows our members and other small business owners who is really fighting for them,” said NFIB President and CEO Juanita Duggan. “Based on his voting record, Rep. Costa is one of the most reliable advocates for small business in Washington. NFIB is honored to present Rep. Costa with this award. The Guardian of Small Business is NFIB’s most prestigious award. It is reserved for lawmakers who vote consistently with NFIB on the key issues identified by small business owners. NFIB tracks the votes of every member of Congress. House members and Senators who vote with NFIB members at least 70 percent of the time are eligible for the Guardian Award. ###
09.09.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16), founder and co-chair of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus, announced that the State of California is the recipient of $10.3 million in Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) federal grant funding. The VOCA victim compensation grants provide victims with financial assistance for medical care, mental health counseling, lost wages, and funeral and burial costs. “This $10.3 million Victims of Crime Act grant awarded to California is going to help thousands of survivors in our San Joaquin Valley,” said Rep. Costa. “Victims’ compensation is essential to ensuring that not one victim of crime goes without care and services. These funds will be made available to survivors so they can pay for out-of-pocket costs like medical expenses, counseling services, shelter, and lost wages. Ensuring that the non-taxpayer dollars in the Crime Victims Fund are spent only for victims’ services and compensation has always been and will continue to be one of my top priorities in Congress.” The Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus was founded in 2005 by the co-chairs, Representatives Jim Costa and Ted Poe. The caucus serves as a voice in Congress for victims of crime. Since 1984, the Victims of Crime Act has provided federal grants to provide essential, often life-saving services for crime victims. The Crime Victims Fund is not financed by taxpayer dollars but by fines, forfeitures, and other penalties paid by federal criminal offenders. By statute, the Fund is dedicated solely to supporting victim services and compensation. Every year, Rep. Jim Costa leads the VOCA appropriations letter requesting that the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies support an increased cap on the money that comes out of the Crime Victims Fund. The cap was raised to $3.042 billion in Fiscal Year 2016. There is an estimated $10 billion in the fund today. ###
09.06.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement regarding President Barack Obama’s visit in Laos. President Obama’s visit to Laos is the first Presidential visit to the country in United States history. "The President’s visit to Laos reminds us of the Hmong and Lao individuals that served as part of Special Guerilla Unit (SGU) and fought shoulder to shoulder with American soldiers during the Vietnam War,” said Rep. Costa. “Congress must recognize the sacrifices of the brave Hmong and Lao veterans who risked their lives to support the United States military. Their service saved American lives, and the estimated 6,000 Hmong and Lao veterans and their families living in the United States today deserve special recognition. They have made great sacrifices for the United States, and we must never forget them.” In May 2015, Rep. Costa introduced H.R. 2327, the Hmong Veterans’ Service Recognition Act. The legislation would extend burial benefits in national cemeteries to Hmong and Lao Americans who served beside U.S. Armed Forces during the Vietnam War. Hmong men and women from Laos were trained and led by officers from the CIA’s Special Activities Division during the Vietnam War. Tens of thousands of these individuals performed direct missions against Communist forces and North Vietnamese supporters, saving countless American lives. Following the war, thousands of Hmong Veterans resettled across the United States and in the Valley. In 1975, President Ford signed legislation that granted them legal permanent resident status and in 2000, President Clinton signed the Hmong Veterans Naturalization Act, which allowed Hmong veterans and their families to become U.S. citizens. Currently burial benefits are available to veterans and members of the U.S. Armed Services, their spouses and dependents, Reserve Officers, Public Health Service Officers, Merchant Mariners from World War II, and the Philippine Armed Forces. This legislation would add veterans who were naturalized under the Hmong Veterans Naturalization Act to the list of individuals eligible for interment at a national cemetery. It is estimated that there are still 6,000 Hmong veterans living in the United States today. Additionally, H.R. 2327 would not change eligibility for burial at Arlington National Cemetery. ###
08.26.2016	Merced, CA – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) joined the Bureau of Reclamation and the Del Puerto Water District to participate in the groundbreaking event for the North Valley Regional Recycled Water Program. “Today’s groundbreaking of the North Valley Regional Recycled Water Program is not only significant for the Del Puerto Water District and the farmers that the District serves, but also for water districts throughout the San Joaquin Valley as they look for ways to secure a more reliable water supply,” said Rep. Jim Costa. “Once the project is complete, over 30 percent of the water supply for the District will be secured to be delivered to farmers in San Joaquin, Stanislaus and Merced Counties. This is a regional solution to California’s water crisis and is a terrific example of the innovative approaches that Valley water agencies, municipalities, farmers and sportsmen are using to create additional resiliency to drought in the future. I applaud the Del Puerto Water District and the Bureau of Reclamation for working together to bring the NVRRWP to fruition.” “Understanding the circumstances we have faced over the last two decades with the declining reliability of the District’s CVP surface supply contract, and especially knowing what our growers have endured the last four years during the ongoing drought, is to understand how meaningful the North Valley Regional Recycled Water Program will be for the future of Del Puerto Water District and its Landowners,” said Anthea Hanson, General Manager of Del Puerto Water District. “The Program Water generated by the NVRRWP will be a reliable base supply upon which each farmer will be able to depend, year in and year out, over the course of the next forty-plus years, which will support investment, jobs and economic activity in the Westside area. And the Districts’ partnership with the Cities will provide benefits to their urban constituents over time, as well. The District thanks Rep. Jim Costa for his unwavering support these past years.” The North Valley Regional Recycled Program will make tertiary-treated recycled water available to the drought-impacted west side of the San Joaquin Valley, south of the Delta. The project will provide a reliable new water supply for prime agricultural lands and wildlife refuges in San Joaquin, Stanislaus, and Merced Counties. Upon its completion, as much as 48,000 acre-feet of water could be available to the Del Puerto Water District. Rep. Costa worked with Rep. Jeff Denham and Senator Dianne Feinstein to secure $75,000 from the Bureau of Reclamation’s Title XVI Water Reclamation and Reuse Program that was used for planning purposes and completion of the environmental documents for the North Valley Regional Recycled Water Program. ###
08.16.2016	Fresno, CA – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (D-Fresno), District Managers from Fresno Mosquito and Vector Control District and Fresno-Westside Mosquito Abatement, and Fresno and Madera County Public Health Officials joined the Consolidated Mosquito Abatement District to learn about its efforts to evaluate a new strategy to help control the mosquito that can transmit Zika virus. Male mosquitoes with Wolbachia, a bacterium found inside the cells of many insects, were flown in from Lexington, Kentucky and released to help control the Aedes aegypti mosquito, which can carry the Zika virus. “San Joaquin Valley communities and researchers need Congress to pass legislation that would fund Zika response efforts and research so that they can continue educating the public and implementing new strategies, like the one we saw today, to control the Aedes aegypti mosquito which can transmit the Zika virus,” said Rep. Jim Costa. “The National Institutes of Health is working to develop a Zika vaccine, and while Phase I has been completed, additional resources are necessary to complete Phase II. Clearly this is a serious public health concern and Congress must act and pass a bill that would provide funding for researchers, county public health departments and mosquito abatement districts in the Valley and throughout the nation to limit and ultimately stop the transmission of the Zika virus in the United States.” “The Aedes aegypti mosquito, the primary transmitter of Zika virus, is now well established in areas of California’s Central Valley,” said Steve Mulligan, District Manager of the Consolidated Mosquito Abatement District. “To help us protect our residents, it is critical that federal funding be provided for surveillance and control of this mosquito, and ongoing funding is needed for the development and evaluation of novel mosquito control strategies.” “Collaboration is critical between Mosquito Abatement Districts, Public Health Departments, and the community to minimize the impact of Zika and other mosquito-borne diseases to the valley community,” said David Luchini, Assistant Director of the Fresno County Department of Public Health. "We're grateful for the recent special funding to conduct vector surveillance and to launch a massive public education campaign to prevent mosquito bites at home and during travel, and to prevent sexual transmission of Zika,” said Van Do-Reynoso, Director of the Madera County Department of Public Health. “However, this limited funding will not sustain our public health efforts. In order to protect the health of our community and to prevent disease, we need to have committed and consistent funding in public health." “The Fresno County Mosquito abatement districts are doing everything possible to control Aedes aegypti and the diseases they carry,” said Tim Phillips, District Manager of the Fresno Mosquito and Vector Control District. “Personal protection from mosquito bites is the best option that we have available to us at this time. Our next best option is residents eliminating all standing water, even minute amounts.” “There are gaps in our knowledge concerning the biology of Aedes aegypti, mosquito, which is the major vector of multiple viruses including Zika virus,” said Dr. Anthony Cornel, Director of the UC Mosquito Research Laboratory at the UC Kearney Agricultural Research and Extension Center in Parlier. “Research funding is needed to conduct field- and laboratory-based studies to learn more about the daily and local spatial movements, longevity, overwintering behavior and Zika virus vector competence of this mosquito in the San Joaquin Valley. Learning more about the biology will assist us immensely to design improved methods to control Aedes aegypti and to implement more efficient vector-based disease surveillance.” Participants in today’s mosquito release and press conference included: Congressman Jim Costa Steve Mulligan, District Manager, Consolidated Mosquito Abatement District Tim Phillips, District Manager, Fresno Mosquito and Vector Control District David Luchini, Assistant Director, Fresno County Department of Public Health Van Do-Reynoso, Director, Madera County Department of Public Health Dr. Anthony Cornel, Director, UC Mosquito Research Laboratory at the UC Kearney Agricultural Research and Extension Center in Parlier For more information about what the Department of Health and Human Services and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention are doing with their limited and depleting funds, visit this link: ###
08.03.2016	Fresno, CA – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement regarding U.S. Secretary of Commerce Penny Pritzker’s visit to California’s San Joaquin Valley. Rep. Costa and Secretary Pritzker met with individuals in the community to discuss the California drought, trade, and economic opportunities for Valley residents and businesses. “Secretary Pritzker’s visit to our Valley was productive, and I think she had the opportunity to learn from business leaders about some of the economic challenges we face as well as the opportunities we have for growth,” said Rep. Costa. “As one of the most productive agriculture regions in the world, Secretary Pritzker shared her desire to boost trade and commerce in the San Joaquin Valley. Additionally, Secretary Pritzker met with water district managers and farmers in the Valley who deal with drought and water challenges every single day. Educating government leaders about the devastating impacts of drought and California’s water history is vital to fixing our broken water system, and for that reason, Secretary Pritzker’s visit was very valuable.” “I am grateful to have been invited by Representative Costa to hear directly from some of the San Joaquin Valley's thriving businesses about a topic of great importance to all of us: creating economic opportunity for all Americans,” said Secretary Pritzker. “At the Department of Commerce, it is our job to help set the conditions for businesses and workers in all of America’s diverse industries, including the Valley's agriculture industry, to succeed in an increasingly competitive global economy. Today's discussion allowed me to learn how the Department of Commerce can best serve as a partner to companies in the Valley looking to take advantage of new opportunities at home and around the world." ###
07.27.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement regarding his recent trip to Armenia. Rep. Costa traveled to Armenia with the Honorary Consul of the Republic of Armenia in Fresno, Berj Apkarian. “Visiting Armenia was a special experience that I will always hold dear and never forget,” said Rep. Costa. “The people of Armenia reminded me of the families I had the pleasure to grow up with in California’s San Joaquin Valley, and being in Armenia truly felt like home. Highlights of the four-day trip included visiting the Armenian Genocide Memorial and laying flowers at the Eternal Flame, receiving a blessing from the Mother See of Holy Etchmiadzin, His Holiness Karekin II, and speaking to students and faculty at the American University of Armenia.” Rep. Costa continued saying, “Additionally, I had the opportunity to meet with the President, Foreign Minister, and President of the National Assembly. We discussed the need for Congress and the Administration to appropriately recognize the Armenian Genocide and ways, through trade, education, and our shared culture, that the United States and Armenia can continue to build our relationship.” “Congressman Costa’s visit to Armenia was historic and a unique experience,” said Berj Apkarian, Honorary Consul of the Republic of Armenia in Fresno. “The visit provided the opportunity to strengthen the economic, academic and cultural ties between the Valley and the Republic of Armenia. I am grateful to Congressman Costa for his vision and support.” Below is a list of what Rep. Costa and Mr. Apkarian did during their visit to Armenia: Visited the Armenian Genocide Memorial Complex and the Armenian Genocide Museum Institute Met with Mr. Galust Sahakyan, President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Armenia Met with Minister of Agriculture of the Republic of Armenia, Mr. Sergo Karapetyan Lectured at the American University of Armenia Visited with Mother See of Holy Etchmiadzin, His Holiness Karekin II Toured St. Etchmiadzin Cathedral and Museum Met with Mr. Serzh Sargsyan, President of the Republic of Armenia Visited the Embassy of the United States of America to the Republic of Armenia Meeting with Ambassador Richard M. Mills, Jr Visited the Khor Virap Monastery Complex ###
07.08.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement on last night’s shooting in Dallas, Texas. “With a heavy heart, I join the American people in mourning the lives of five Dallas police officers,” said Rep. Costa. “My thoughts and prayers are with the wounded police officers and civilians, their families and the Dallas community. Nothing justifies heinous violence against police officers who serve with honor and dedicate their lives to keep their communities safe. Throughout the country, the men and women in blue protect us every day, and we will never be able to say ‘thank you’ enough. As we grieve the loss of five Dallas police officers, Americans need to bind our wounds, put the divisiveness aside and come together.” ###
06.24.2016	Washington, DC - Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement in response to the announcement made by the United States Forest Service that since October 2015 an additional 26 million trees have perished in California as a result of four consecutive years of drought and bark beetle infestation, bringing the total to at least 66 million dead trees since 2010. “My fear is that the wildfires in southern California and most recently, the one burning in Kern County, which has already had devastating impacts, are only the beginning of what is to come this summer,” said Rep. Costa. “As of Wednesday, there are now at least 66 million dead trees in California’s forests, and we can no longer wait to address this issue. The dead trees are fuel for these wildfires, and if further action is not taken to clean up the forests, the Sierra Mountains will literally turn to a tinder box. I fully support U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack’s call that Congress allocates increased resources to fight wildfires. We must act swiftly and provide funding for emergency assistance to address the tree mortality crisis throughout California and all Western states.” Costa continued saying, “I commend Governor Jerry Brown’s leadership on this issue by declaring a state of emergency and creating the Tree Mortality Task Force. The task force has worked diligently to keep communities safe from catastrophic wildfires, and earlier this month I hosted a Tree Mortality and Wildfire Workshop to discuss ways in which the federal government can continue and expand efforts to address the millions of dead trees in California. Furthermore, I worked with the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Conservation and Forestry to organize a hearing which will be held on July 14th to highlight what the state of California has done and plan the best course of action at the State and Federal level for saving recreation sites, homes and lives.” For more information regarding wildfires in California, please visit the U.S. Forest Service website. ###
06.23.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after the U.S. Supreme Court’s 4-4 ruling on the U.S. v. Texas: “Undoubtedly, today’s ruling is a setback to the progress made for immigrant families in the Valley and throughout the United States, but that does not mean we will stop fighting for these important policies that keep families together,” said Rep. Costa. “I will continue to strongly support expanded Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) and Deferred Action for Parents of Americans (DAPA). Our country’s current immigration system is not sustainable, it does not make economic sense, and it is not fair to families. Simply stated, as I have said many times, we have a broken immigration system that must be fixed. Let us never forget that that the U.S. is a nation of immigrants, and now, more than ever, we need Comprehensive Immigration Reform." Today’s ruling does not impact DACA that was implemented in 2012. For more information please visit the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services website. ###
06.23.2016	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement in anticipation of His Holiness Pope Francis’ upcoming trip to Armenia: “I applaud Pope Francis for his leadership in condemning the horrific genocide that took place more than a hundred years ago,” said Rep. Costa. “The Holy See is the moral compass of the Catholic faith and it is from this high moral ground that His Holiness rightfully recognizes Armenia as the first nation to recognize Christianity and speaks to the moral challenges of our time. The Pontiff’s visit to Armenia is further proof of his commitment to the Armenian people. I urge the President and Congress to follow the lead of Pope Francis and finally adopt a clear policy recognizing the Armenian Genocide.” ###
06.22.2016	Washington, D.C - Today, Rep. Jim Costa released the following statement as the Democrats in the House and Senate hold a sit-in on the House floor to urge House Republican leadership to bring up a vote on commonsense gun legislation. “As Members of Congress, we have to ask ourselves, at what point are we going to have an honest discussion about public safety and the continuation of hate crimes happening throughout America,” said Rep. Costa. “When will enough be enough? If now is not the time to have a meaningful dialogue about this, then when is? The deadly shooting in Orlando could have happened anywhere in the United States, and the reality is, we do not have consensus on the appropriate policies needed to prevent it from happening again.” Costa continued by saying, “We have to stop playing partisan politics if we are ever going to be able to have an honest conversation about preventing hate crimes. The American people deserve better from their Members of Congress. Sound bites and blaming others does not translate into improving policies that make Americans safer. I urge my colleagues to thoughtfully discuss and hold hearings on these very important issues so we can pass meaningful bipartisan legislation into law. Let me be clear, this is not about the Second Amendment or about taking away American citizens’ right to lawfully own guns for personal use. This is an effort to make Americans safer.” Rep. Costa participated in the sit-in, and his remarks to his colleagues and the American people can be viewed here. ###
06.09.2016	Washington, DC - Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) and fifteen members of the California House delegation sent a letter to U.S. Department of Interior Secretary Sally Jewell and U.S. Department of Commerce Secretary Penny Pritzker regarding proposed actions by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) and the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) that, if implemented, will significantly reduce the water supply available to Californians. The letter can be viewed here. In reference to the letter, Rep. Costa released the following statement: “After four years of drought and two years of zero water allocations for many farms and communities served by the Central Valley Project (CVP), 2016 El Nino conditions created an opportunity for recovery for businesses and small communities on the brink of devastation. Today, Shasta Reservoir and Folsom Lake, the CVP’s two major reservoirs in the Sacramento River watershed, both enjoy above average storage, and there is sufficient water for the Bureau of Reclamation to meet the commitment made earlier this year to supply 100 percent water allocations to farmers in the Sacramento Valley, the San Joaquin River Exchange Contractors, and wildlife refuges in the San Joaquin Valley. However, the United States National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) and Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) are now proposing new efforts to recover species, impacting CVP operations and putting at risk Reclamation’s ability to deliver water previously allocated. “Despite an abundance of water in Shasta Reservoir, NMFS is considering a temperature control plan that would permit releases of only 8,000 cubic feet per second (cfs) of water. This constraint, which is not required by any existing regulation, would prevent farmers in the Sacramento Valley from diverting water already promised by Reclamation and would limit Reclamation’s ability to export water to meet its commitment to the Exchange Contractors, senior water rights holders in the San Joaquin Valley. It is unimaginable, but this could lead to Reclamation having to make releases from Friant Dam and reduce water previously promised to farmers in the Friant system, who for the last two years received a zero allocation. The new restriction proposed by NMFS would also make it unlikely that Reclamation could supply the meager 5 percent allocation made for south-of-Delta agricultural water service contractors. Such conservative releases during the summer months will almost certainly require Reclamation to once again drain the reserves in Folsom Dam. These consequences are unacceptable. “While NMFS is proposing water be held in in Shasta through the summer and fall, FWS is requesting additional outflow during the summer for the purpose of increasing habitat for Delta smelt. In an attempt to address the continued decline of smelt, while remaining focused on flows instead of the comprehensive approach that is required to recover the species, the FWS is placing additional stress on a broken water delivery system. This request is outside of the requirements of the 2008 Biological Opinion, and FWS has failed to conduct the required statutory analysis or identify any statutory authority under which the request is made. Further, the outflow request was made without adequate, scientific support or environmental review. Rather than collecting and analyzing data to make an informed, scientific decision that deals with the many factors influencing the decline of the delta smelt, FWS is requesting an action be taken that has an uncertain scientific basis and could, in fact, further imperil the recovery of smelt by creating better conditions for competing species. “To add further complexities to the requests, the two requests are seemingly incompatible. The two resource agencies, which both have responsibility to implement the Endangered Species Act, are considering actions that are seemingly contradictory and would have incredibly serious impacts to the communities that rely on the water supplied by the CVP and SWP. In order to meet both of these actions, Reclamation and the California Department of Water Resources would have to reallocate water previously promised to communities from the Sacramento Valley to Los Angeles. These communities need this water in order to aid in the recovery from a multi-year drought. “These proposals would take away water not only from farms and communities, but from areas where CVP water is used to enhance the environment. In 2014 and 2015, Reclamation was unable to meet its legal obligation to make specified quantities of water to managed wetlands, where water is used to provide habitat for waterfowl and other species, including other endangered species like the giant garter snake. The single species management approach employed by NMFS and FWS ignores not only human needs for water, but the needs of other species that have equal protection under the law. It simply makes no common sense. “These requests are unprecedented and the impacts, intended or not, will be severe throughout California. Until NMFS and FWS can develop a recovery plan that demonstrates these actions will provide quantifiable benefits to the species they are seeking to protect and have demonstrated that other actions that do not reduce water supply for people and the environment cannot produce comparable protections for the targeted species, these actions should not proceed. The most severely impacted by the rigid operations we have witnessed this year and by these actions are the small farming communities in the San Joaquin Valley, many of whom are suffering already from not only decreased water supply, but the risings costs associated with the delivery of scarce water. “FWS and NMFS must start making operational decisions based on the best available science, decisions that properly consider impacts on other endangered species and communities in the Central Valley and are ultimately consistent with the intended purpose of the Central Valley and State Water Projects.” ###
06.08.2016	Washington, DC - Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed a Joint Session of Congress. “I appreciate Prime Minister Modi’s willingness to work with the United States on important issues, including climate change, trade and defense,” said Rep. Costa. “Everyone has a role to play when it comes to addressing climate change, and India’s intention to join the Paris Agreement is a very positive step toward our ability to limit greenhouse emissions throughout the world. A partnership with India brings more opportunities for greater investment in both countries, beneficial trade relationships, and more jobs. Additionally, strong India and U.S. relations will undoubtedly boost our defense strategy to combat terrorism in the Middle East and Asia.” Costa continued saying, “In the U.S. we know very well that powerful and meaningful change does not happen overnight. It is difficult to rally individuals around progressive ideas even though in hindsight the ideas may not have been progressive but simply common sense. While I commend Prime Minister Modi for implementing policies to limit discrimination and promote freedom and equality, I believe that there is much more to be done to strengthen human rights and religious freedoms in India. I am confident that the Administration and Congress will continue to monitor India’s progress to ensure liberty and freedom for all Indian citizens.” Prime Minister Modi is the fifth Indian Prime Minister to address a Joint Session of Congress. ###
06.02.2016	Fresno, CA — Today, Rep. Jim Costa (D-Fresno) released the following statement after meeting with federal and state agency leaders to discuss ways to continue and expand efforts to address the millions of dead trees in California. In addition to Rep. Costa, the meeting had over 40 participants including: Randy Moore, Pacific Southwest Regional Forester, U.S. Forest Service; Chief Ken Pimlott, Director, CAL FIRE; and Jeff Lusk, Mitigation Division Director, Federal Emergency Management Agency, Region IX. “The extremely dry conditions in California’s forests pose a serious threat, and state and federal agencies must continue to work together to reduce the impacts of catastrophic wildfires,” said Rep. Costa. “Today’s conversation with federal and state agency leaders was productive, and I applaud the efforts that are already being made by the U.S. Forest Service, CAL FIRE, FEMA, and local agencies. This is an all-hands-on-deck situation, and I will continue working with my colleagues in Congress and the Administration to increase federal support to deal with fires that could have a devastating effect this summer. Governor Brown’s effort last fall to declare a state of emergency and create the Tree Mortality Task Force is to be commended. Today, our workshop heard from members of the task force on efforts to suppress wildfires in California and ways we can improve upon those efforts. Congress must pass legislation that will provide more resources to clean up our forests and fight these devastating wildfires.” "We appreciated Congressman Costa holding this workshop to highlight the challenges of this emergency, as well as his effort to expand the response," said Chief Ken Pimlott, Director of CAL FIRE. According to the United States Forest Service, since 2010, an estimated 40 million trees have died in California’s national forests due to the unprecedented and ongoing drought, bark beetle infestation and high tree densities. An estimated 29 million trees died in 2015 alone, which was the driest of the four years of drought currently affecting California. Rep. Costa is a cosponsor of H.R. 167, the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act. The legislation would end the disruptive practice of fire borrowing and ensure that the way we budget for fires makes sense by moving funding for fighting the truly disastrous wildfires to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). As a result, adequate funding for both wildfire suppression and forest and land management practices that help to reduce the impacts of catastrophic wildfires in the future will be provided. In October 2015, Governor Brown declared a state of emergency and established the Tree Mortality Task Force. In May, FEMA awarded the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection almost $13.7 million for wildfire suppression and structure protection. For more information on tree mortality visit www.PrepareForBarkBeetle.org. ###
06.02.2016	Fresno, CA – Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement in response to the German Parliament voting to recognize the Armenian Genocide. “Critics always say it is never the right time to recognize the Armenian Genocide; however, the German Parliament reaffirms now is the time. Yet the United States continues to fail to stand up and do the right thing” said Rep. Costa. “I applaud the German Parliament for condemning the horrific genocide that took place over 100 years ago by the Ottoman Empire. I urge the President and Congress to follow the lead of Germany and other brave countries to once and for all adopt a clear policy recognizing the Armenian Genocide.” ###
05.24.2016	Washington, DC - Today, Reps. Jim Costa (CA-16) and David Valadao (CA-21) testified at the U.S. House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Water, Power, and Oceans legislative hearing on H.R. 4366, the San Luis Unit Drainage Resolution, introduced by Rep. Valadao and H.R. 5217, the San Luis Unit Drainage Resolution Act, introduced by Rep. Costa. The legislation would authorize a settlement agreement concerning the management of drainage water within the San Luis Unit of the Central Valley Project (CVP) in California. An agreement was reached in September 2015 between the United States and the Westlands Water District (Westlands), and a separate agreement was reached between the United States and the northerly San Luis Unit water and irrigation districts: Pacheco, San Luis, and Panoche Water Districts. This legislation will not affect water allocations for other CVP water contractors. “California’s San Joaquin Valley is home to some of the most productive agricultural land in the world, and Congressman Valadao and I are proud to represent the farmers who produce the crops that feed our nation and world,” said Rep. Costa. “The San Luis Drainage Resolution Act helps ensure the land in the San Luis Unit and Westlands Water District of the Central Valley Project has the opportunity to continue their long-standing history of productivity, while eliminating the $3.8 billion dollar burden that U.S. tax payers are currently obligated to pay. These agreements, reached between the Obama Administration and the water districts within the San Luis Unit and Westlands Water District, need to be authorized by Congress in order to move forward. I urge my colleagues to support the San Luis Unit Drainage Resolution Act because its passage would result in the resolution of all drainage obligations for the United States and would move the responsibilities of drainage obligations to local control, similar to other jurisdictions across the state.” Congressman Valadao stated, “I cannot stress enough the importance of this legislation so that we may finally end this decades old dispute. By passing my legislation, H.R. 4366, the San Luis Drainage Resolution Act, we are able to protect the economic stability of the most productive agriculture region in the world by preserving agriculture production and as a result, safeguarding thousands of desperately needed jobs in the region.” He continued, “Additionally, passage of this legislation will shield American taxpayers from potentially billions of dollars in future drainage and litigation costs by relieving the United States of its multi-billion dollar statutory and court-ordered drainage obligation. This common-sense agreement will settle this long-standing dispute, proving beneficial for all those involved. Video of Rep. Costa testifying before the subcommittee can be watched here. Video of Rep. Valadao testifying before the subcommittee can be watched here. Rep. Valadao’s bill, H.R. 4366, the San Luis Unit Drainage Resolution Act would authorize the following provisions which are part of the settlement agreement: Provide $70 million appropriated/discretionary in funding to assist the Northerly Districts with the completion of the Westside Regional Drainage Plan. Settle litigation with Westlands land owners and relieve the United States of its potentially multi-billion dollar statutory and court-ordered drainage obligation. Require Westlands to manage drainage water within its boundaries, in accordance with the federal and California law, and provide Interior the right to cease water deliveries to Westlands if it fails to do so. Require Westlands to indemnify the U.S. for any damages and pay compensation for landowner claims arising out of the Etchegoinberry litigation. Relieve Westlands of its existing approximate $375 million ($295 million in April 2015 dollars) repayment obligation for CVP construction charges. Require Westlands to permanently retire 100,000 acres of land within its boundaries. Allow Westlands to assume title to certain facilities owned by the U.S. Authorize the Secretary to convert Westlands’ existing water service contract entered into under section 9(e) of the 1939 to a repayment contract under section 9(d) of the same act. Cap Westlands contract deliveries at 75% of its CVP contract amount. In addition to the provisions listed above, Congressman Costa’s bill, H.R. 5217 would also authorize the following: Require the Northerly Districts to assume all responsibility for drainage within their respective boundaries in accordance with all legal requirements under state and federal law. Require the Northerly Districts to indemnify the U.S. for any damages and pay compensation for claims arising out of litigation related to drainage. Allow the Northerly Districts to assume title to certain facilities owned by the U.S. Relieve the U.S. of all statutory obligations to provide drainage to the Northerly Districts. Relieve the Northerly Districts of their approximate $52.7 million repayment obligation (in April 2015 dollars) for CVP construction charges. Convert the Northerly Districts water 9(e) water service contracts into 9(d) repayment contracts. ###
05.19.2016	Washington, DC - Rep. Jim Costa released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (H.R. 4909), which included an amendment introduced by Rep. Costa. “My amendment, which was accepted into the House-passed National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), has the potential to help regions like the San Joaquin Valley that have experienced a loss of drinking water supplies as a result of serious drought conditions,” said Rep. Costa. “It would require the Department of Defense to provide a report to Congress on the well-drilling capabilities of military units and the feasibility of rotating training locations to areas of the United States affected by drought conditions. Providing relief to drought-stricken regions like the San Joaquin Valley must be done with a multi-pronged approach, and this amendment offers one way in which Congress can try to help communities that are dealing with the effects of devastating drought conditions.” Rep. Costa continued saying, “The defense authorization bill that Congress passed is not a perfect bill, but I supported the legislation because it ensures that the U.S. military is the strongest in the world and our communities and country remain safe. As this bill moves forward, it is my hope improvements are agreed upon before a final measure is passed into law.” The FY 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) would authorize $602 billion in discretionary funds, including $543 billion for Department of Defense programs and $59 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations. The legislation would raise military pay by 2.1 percent, and provide investments in capabilities for power projection, counterterrorism, deterrence, ground combat, sea power, and air superiority to help maintain the U.S. military’s advantages in the twenty-first century. The legislation allows for $680 million to combat ISIL in Iraq and $250 million to train and assist vetted Syrian opposition forces, and reinforces congressional oversight over those efforts. ###
05.17.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement in response to Rep. John Garamendi (CA-3) introducing the California Long-Term Provisions for Water Supply and Short-Term Provisions for Emergency Drought Relief Act (H.R. 5247), House companion legislation to Senator Feinstein’s bill, S.2533. “In order to get a California water bill passed and signed into law, our nation’s Senators must understand that there is support for Senator Dianne Feinstein’s legislation amongst California Representatives in the House, and that is why I am a cosponsor of H.R. 5247,” said Rep. Costa. “There is room for improvement in Senator Feinstein’s legislation, especially provisions related to short-term fixes that would provide more accountability in how California’s water system is operated year to year, but if Congress is going to be able to provide some relief to the people of California, we must continue moving forward, and the passage of S.2533 would undoubtedly be an important step in the right direction. Once S.2533 is passed out of the Senate, the House and Senate will have the opportunity to go to conference to resolve differences in the legislation.” Costa continued saying, “I have consistently fought to bring more water to our San Joaquin Valley and that includes supporting legislation like the California water bill that the House passed last year. It is my hope that my colleagues will put aside their political differences and join me in supporting the California Long-Term Provisions for Water Supply and Short-Term Provisions for Emergency Drought Relief Act, because fixing California’s water system is dependent upon it.” The California Long-Term Provisions for Water Supply and Short-Term Provisions for Emergency Drought Relief Act would provide $1.3 billion in funding and support for desalination, recycling efforts, and water storage projects, like Temperance Flat and the expansion of San Luis Reservoir. The bill also would direct state and federal agencies to maximize water supplies during the short-term while not violating environmental laws that protect threatened and endangered species. Additionally, the legislation includes language that would provide for more scientifically managed reservoir operations and would allow for the raise of the spillway gates at New Exchequer Dam in Merced County. The legislation would also complement the ongoing efforts made by the recent passage of the California Water Bond. In addition to cosponsoring H.R. 5247, Rep. Costa joined other Members of the California Congressional delegation in sending a letter expressing support for S.2533 to Chairman Lisa Murkowski and Ranking Member Maria Cantwell of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. ###
05.12.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Jim Costa (CA-16) introduced the San Luis Unit Drainage Resolution Act. The legislation would authorize a settlement agreement concerning the management of drainage water within the San Luis Unit of the Central Valley Project (CVP) in California. An agreement was reached in September 2015 between the United States and the Westlands Water District (Westlands), and a separate agreement was recently reached between the United States and the northerly San Luis Unit water and irrigation districts: Pacheco, San Luis, and Panoche Water Districts. This legislation will not affect water allocations for other CVP water contractors. “Introducing the San Luis Unit Drainage Resolution Act is the next step to ensure that all claims by water districts within the entire San Luis Unit against the United States are resolved,” said Rep. Costa. “Once authorized by law, the settlement agreement reached between the United States and the San Luis Unit districts will end decades of frustration that began when the U.S. government determined it was not going to complete drainage service to the San Luis Unit of the Central Valley Project. The passage of the San Luis Unit Drainage Resolution Act in the House and Senate would ensure that the settlement agreement is authorized, and U.S. tax payers will no longer face the burden of the estimated $3.8 billion the federal government is currently obligated to pay. I look forward to working on a bipartisan basis with my colleagues in the House and Senate to get this important legislation passed and signed into law.” “This legislation would implement a comprehensive drainage solution at the local level for the entire San Luis Unit of the Central Valley Project and relieves the United States from costly litigation and the obligation of providing those services,” said Lon M. Martin, General Manager of the San Luis Water District. “The Obama Administration, San Luis Unit water districts, along with Representative Costa have developed legislation to implement the settlement agreements that will protect taxpayers from legal liability and help to preserve the water quality of the San Joaquin River and the Sacramento San Joaquin Bay-Delta.” In 1960, Congress passed the San Luis Act, authorizing the construction of and operation of the San Luis Unit as a part of CVP with the principal purpose of furnishing water for irrigation of land in Merced, Fresno, and Kings Counties. The San Luis Act expressly conditioned the construction of the San Luis Unit on the provision for drainage facilities. Although changes in cropping patterns and technological advances in irrigation practices have proven beneficial, the drainage problem within the San Luis Unit remains significant. The United States has a Statutory and court-ordered obligation to manage drainage. The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals has held that the San Luis Act requires the Secretary of the Interior (the Secretary) to provide drainage to the San Luis Unit of the CVP. There are currently several court cases pending regarding the federal government’s obligation to provide drainage to Westlands. The San Luis Unit Drainage Resolution Act would authorize the following provisions which are part of the settlement agreement: Require the Northerly Districts to assume all responsibility for drainage within their respective boundaries in accordance with all legal requirements under state and federal law. Require the Northerly Districts to indemnify the U.S. for any damages and pay compensation for claims arising out of litigation related to drainage. Allow the Northerly Districts to assume title to certain facilities owned by the U.S. Relieve the U.S. of all statutory obligations to provide drainage to the Northerly Districts. Relieve the Northerly Districts of their approximate $52.7 million repayment obligation (in April 2015 dollars) for CVP construction charges. Convert the Northerly Districts water 9(e) water service contracts into 9(d) repayment contracts. Provide $70 million appropriated/discretionary in funding to assist the Northerly Districts with the completion of the Westside Regional Drainage Plan. Settle litigation with Westlands land owners and relieve the United States of its potentially multi-billion dollar statutory and court-ordered drainage obligation. Require Westlands to manage drainage water within its boundaries, in accordance with the federal and California law, and provide Interior the right to cease water deliveries to Westlands if it fails to do so. Require Westlands to indemnify the U.S. for any damages and pay compensation for landowner claims arising out of the Etchegoinberry litigation. Relieve Westlands of its existing approximate $375 million ($295 million in April 2015 dollars) repayment obligation for CVP construction charges. Require Westlands to permanently retire 100,000 acres of land within its boundaries. Allow Westlands to assume title to certain facilities owned by the U.S. Authorize the Secretary to convert Westlands’ existing water service contract entered into under section 9(e) of the 1939 to a repayment contract under section 9(d) of the same act. Cap Westlands contract deliveries at 75% of its CVP contract amount. ###
05.06.2016	Fresno, CA – Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after the Bureau of Reclamation signed the Record of Decision (ROD) for the North Valley Regional Recycled Water Program (Program). The Program is a regional solution to address part of the continuing California water crisis. The Program will make tertiary-treated recycled water available to the drought-impacted west side of the San Joaquin Valley, south of the Delta. The project is moving forward to provide a reliable new water supply for prime agricultural lands and wildlife refuges in San Joaquin, Stanislaus, and Merced Counties. The Program is shovel-ready and as much as 59,000 acre-feet of water could be available as soon as 2018. “We continue to face drought conditions in the San Joaquin Valley, and today, with the signing of the Record of Decision for the North Valley Regional Recycled Water Program, an important next step has been completed to bring a secure water supply to a portion of western Merced County,” said Rep. Costa. “The Program is a terrific example of the innovative approaches that Valley water agencies, municipalities, farmers and sportsmen are using to create additional resiliency to drought in the future. I would like to congratulate Del Puerto Water District and the Bureau of Reclamation for their efforts to bring the Program to this point, and I look forward to its construction.” Costa continued saying, “More work remains to be done, and I remain committed to using every tool in our water toolbox to bring more reliable water supplies to the people of the San Joaquin Valley.” Rep. Costa worked with Rep. Jeff Denham and Senator Dianne Feinstein to secure $75,000 from the Bureau of Reclamation’s Title XVI Water Reclamation and Reuse Program that was used for planning purposes and completion of the environmental documents for the Program. ###
04.29.2016	From working to get a five-year Farm Bill passed to fighting for water for California’s farmers, protecting and growing America’s agricultural economy is one of my top priorities in Congress. This includes preserving a robust farm safety net for producers. During the latest Farm Bill negotiations, Federal crop insurance was the topic of much conversation, especially relative to the role that direct payments play in modern agricultural production. Some Members and special interest groups attempted to create a narrative that the program is an inefficient “handout” to rich farmers and turn popular opinion against our farm communities. Luckily, we successfully beat back that false rhetoric and passed a farm bill. However, despite how untrue it is, the sentiment that began to develop against farm risk reduction programs like crop insurance has festered. The truth is that crop insurance is a highly successful public-private partnership between the federal government and private insurance companies. It functions as a risk management tool for farmers to mitigate the numerous risks – financial, meteorological or the like – that they take to produce the finest food and fiber in the world. In 2015, crop insurance providers sold policies for more than a 120 different crops valued at $102 billion and covering 298 million acres. Farmers deserve the opportunity to purchase the same security provided by crop insurance in a similar way that homeowners can protect themselves in the wake of a natural disaster. As areas of the United States deal with drought conditions, particularly areas such as California’s San Joaquin Valley, crop insurance is very important to a farmer’s bottom line if they are unable to plant or to harvest their crops. When Congressional leadership negotiated the omnibus budget deal in October 2015, they failed to consult with the House Agriculture Committee and included a provision to drastically reduce the rates of return that crop insurance companies would receive. At a time when rural America is facing challenges, and especially as California is dealing with devastating drought conditions, those cuts would have would have been detrimental for farmers throughout the country and real harm would have been done to the agriculture industry. House Agriculture Committee members and I successfully urged the budget negotiators to strip the provision in the final deal that would have crippled insurance companies by making it too expensive to provide insurance products. To ensure continued support and success of the crop insurance program, Members of Congress, community leaders, farmers, and consumers who purchase meat, dairy, fruits, vegetables, and nuts at the grocery must express the importance of the program. If not, we may one day see the program cease to exist, and with that, we will see lost revenue, higher prices at the grocery store, and increased unemployment. Crop insurance also provides help to beginning farmers and ranchers, as well as socially disadvantaged and veteran farmers and ranchers. It is critical that these individuals have access to the farm safety net, especially as the average age of the American farmer continues to inch higher and higher. The public needs to understand that growing food is a very risky business, and farmers are price takers, not price makers. Every year, the people who produce our food face numerous risk factors, like weather, high input costs, and the global market, for which they have no control over. With more and more people demanding that rural America produce higher yielding and safer products at lower prices, we need to utilize every tool available in our toolbox, like crop insurance, to help those who sacrifice every day to produce the food and fiber we consume.
04.18.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement on the U.S. v. Texas oral arguments. The Supreme Court is hearing oral arguments on expanded Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) and Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (DAPA). “It has been nearly three years since the Senate passed bipartisan Comprehensive Immigration Reform, and House Republicans failed to pass the commonsense legislation that would have kept families together and moved our country forward. Unfortunately, today, we are hearing more partisan rhetoric surrounding the President’s executive actions which were taken as a result of Republicans’ inaction. “By implementing Deferred Action for Parents of Americans (DAPA) and expanding Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA), the President used his executive authority to act within existing laws, and it is my hope that after the Supreme Court hears today’s oral arguments, we will be one step closer to fixing our nation’s chaotic and broken immigration system. Let us never forget that the United States is a nation of hard working immigrants, and DACA and DAPA are commonsense policies that will enable individuals to live out of the shadows and make positive contributions to our society and economy. “The bottom line is that Congress must pass bipartisan and commonsense Comprehensive Immigration Reform. Families depend upon it, and so does the future of our country.” ###
04.14.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) announced that students attending Madera High School, Liberty High School, Bullard High School, and Fresno City College have been accepted into our nation’s military academies. “Each year, I have the distinct honor of nominating San Joaquin Valley students to our nation’s military academies, and this year, four of the individuals I nominated have been accepted into the academy of their choice,” said Rep. Costa. “To be nominated, students must not only excel academically, but also exhibit a passion for service and leadership. Eric, Mitchell, Connor, and Caleb are well-rounded and bright young men who are role models for their peers, and I am so proud of their hard work and efforts.” In order to attend one of the military academies, students must receive a nomination from their Member of Congress. Students may apply to the U.S. Military Academy (West Point), the Air Force Academy, the Naval Academy, and the Merchant Marine Academy. Accepted students will receive a full scholarship, and upon graduation, they must complete the military service obligation requirement for each school. Eric Niino, Jr. School: Madera High School GPA: 4.5 Community Involvement/Achievements: Eagle Scout; active in church; top of his senior class, active in his school’s Associated Student Body (ASB) as Spirit Commissioner; and captain for the water polo team. Academy attending: West Point (Eric was nominated to three academies, West Point, the U.S. Air Force Academy, and the Naval Academy, which is rare.) Mitchell Soper School: Fresno City College High School: Edison High School, graduated in 2014 Community involvement/Achievements: Fresno City College football player; volunteer at USMC League, Detachment 14 Toys for Tots program and the Fresno Veterans Day Parade. Academy attending: U.S. Naval Academy Connor Vikupitz High School: Bullard High School GPA: 4.0 Community Involvement/Achievements: Team captain of football team and member of the school advance jazz band. Academy attending: U.S. Air Force Academy Caleb Wiens High School: Liberty High School GPA: 3.7 Community Involvement/Achievements: Team captain of cross country team, member of school clubs, and active in church. Academy attending: U.S. Air Force Academy ###
04.01.2016	Fresno, CA - Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after the Bureau of Reclamation announced the initial Central Valley Project 2016 Water Supply Allocation: “Sadly, today the Valley is faced with what we all feared and I cautioned against since rains began in January. Despite the El Nino conditions, above average rainfall and an average snowpack in the mountains, today farmers in the San Joaquin Valley have been told they can expect to receive a five percent water allocation from the federal water project,” said. Rep. Costa. “If state and federal agencies had followed my consistent direction and better managed the water in the system, there would have been a different and more positive announcement made today. Instead, as a direct result of the federal agencies failure to act on my recommendations, more land will go fallow, farm workers will be jobless, and the challenges that San Joaquin Valley drought stricken communities face will continue. This Administration should acknowledge that during this water year, after a four year drought that has caused severe impacts to the people of the San Joaquin Valley, the water projects have been operated for the primary purpose of protecting fisheries and not for the needs of the people of the Valley. This is the Administration’s failure and further proves the necessity for Congressional action to fix this broken water system. This was avoidable and the residents of the Valley deserve much better.” Since the El Nino conditions began, Rep. Costa has been consistently urging federal and state agencies to better balance the management of California’s water system. Below is a timeline and links to floor speeches, hearing remarks, and letters that were sent to the Administration: November 13, 2015 – Rep. Costa led a letter from members of the California delegation to the President and Governor Brown asking what their plan is to manage El Nino Precipitation. View letter here. December 17, 2015 – Rep. Costa speaks on the House floor to express the urgency to get California water legislation passed. View speech here. January 15, 2016 – Rep. Costa says that even with El Nino rains, California’s drought crisis is not over. View speech here. February 3, 2016 – Rep. Costa calls on state and federal agencies to properly manage water from El Nino rains. View speech here. February 10, 2016 – In a Natural Resources Committee hearing, Rep. Costa says that unknown impacts of predation are hurting the San Joaquin Valley. View remarks here. February 11, 2016 – Rep. Costa says that state and federal agencies must maximize pumping in the Delta. View speech here. February 11, 2016 – In response to Rep. Costa’s calls to action, federal agencies increased pumping to maximum levels allowable under environmental law. February 26, 2016 – In a Natural Resources Committee hearing, Rep. Costa says we must fix California’s broken water system. View remarks here. February 26, 2016 – Rep. Costa calls on his colleagues and the Administration to recognize the drought impacts in California’s San Joaquin Valley. View speech here. March 14, 2016 – Rep. Costa says we must take advantage of every drop of water in the system and fix California’s broken water system in the short- and long-term. View speech here. March 22, 2016 – Rep. Costa urges the Administration to prioritize California’s drought stricken San Joaquin Valley. View speech here. March 22, 2016 – In a Natural Resources Committee hearing, Rep. Costa questions species recovery effectiveness. View remarks here. March 23, 2016 – Federal agencies reduce pumping from the Delta. March 24, 2016 – Rep. Costa sent a letter President Obama asking him to direct the Bureau of Reclamation, Fish and Wildlife Service, and National Marine Fisheries Service to maximize pumping in the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta to the greatest extent allowable with the applicable laws governing system operations. View letter here. ###
03.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) spoke on the House floor to call on the Administration and federal agencies to act with urgency to help mitigate drought impacts in California. “The people and communities of California’s San Joaquin Valley have been dealing with devastating drought conditions for nearly a decade,” said Rep. Jim Costa. “It is high time that the Administration acts urgently and prioritizes the farmers, farm workers, and farming communities in California’s drought stricken San Joaquin Valley because our state’s food supply and economy is dependent upon it.” Yesterday, the White House released a memorandum to direct federal agencies to form a plan for long-term drought resilience. Today, in conjunction with the United Nations World Water Day, the Administration is holding a White House Water Summit to raise awareness about issues our nation faces related to our water supply and drought conditions. A video of Rep. Costa’s floor speech can be found here. Costa’s prepared remarks are below: Mr. Speaker, I would like to recognize the water crises we are faced with in California, the nation, and world. Today, global communities, businesses and organizations have joined together, and the White House is even holding a Water Summit to raise awareness about the 650 million people in the world who do not have access to safe drinking water and are urging leaders to focus on ways in which we can increase access to safe and sanitary water. On the website, waterday.us, it states that, “Water stress is the impact a lack of water has on a particular sector or population. Water stress affects nutrition, public health, environmental services, housing and urban growth, and national security.” Those impacts of not having a reliable and safe water supply are all too familiar to us in the San Joaquin Valley. So while I believe it is fitting and appropriate that we recognize there is a nation- and world-wide issue regarding our water resources, and that we need a comprehensive and long-term plan to increase our drought resiliency, I find it to be extremely disappointing that California’s San Joaquin Valley is not at the forefront of this discussion. While I empathize with those in Flint, Michigan, other areas of the country, like us in the San Joaquin Valley, face water shortages that have been going on much longer, with much less national attention being paid to them. In the Valley, instead of lead poisoning due to a failure at all levels of government, we are dealing with water with high nitrate levels in drinking water, if there is any access to water at all. The solutions are clear, we need: · Increased federal funding for infrastructure to build resiliency to drought and reduce impacts to water quality, ·Increased coordination between local, state and federal agencies to reduce impacts to communities with impaired water quality or reduced access to water supply, ·And finally, increased focus on ensuring that regulations achieve their intended purpose while minimizing negative effects on impacted communities. For instance, due to the decisions made by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to require the Bureau of Reclamation to operate the pumps in California’s water system under scientifically flawed provisions within the biological opinions, we have lost hundreds of thousands of acre-feet of water. This year, had the federal agencies operated within the flexibility provided in the biological opinions, San Joaquin Valley communities could have been provided an additional 210,000 acre-feet of water, enough water to supply over 400,000 households. As a result of the drought and the inability to capture water that is flowing in the system, 600,000 acres of productive farmland in the San Joaquin Valley have gone dry and families literally do not have water to drink, cook, or bathe. There is a very certain human toll that is taking place to provide highly uncertain benefits for species. This is unacceptable, avoidable, and immoral. I urge the federal agencies to take action and do an experimental increase in pumping with increased detection and monitoring, so we can find out if Delta Smelt and salmon travelling through the Delta are even being harmed by the exact pumping levels under discussion. So while I appreciate the attention and comprehensive plan the Administration is trying to implement to solve our nation’s water crisis, we need short-term solutions now, so that farmers, farm workers, and farming communities in the San Joaquin Valley do not go without water for the third year in a row. Additionally, we must do everything possible to get federal legislation passed and signed into law. Because if the federal agencies aren’t going to act, Congress must! Thank you, and I yield back the balance of my time. ###
03.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - At today’s U.S. House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Water, Power, and Oceans, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) questioned the Deputy Director of U.S. Fish and Wildlife Services, Jim Kurth, and the Assistant Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Fisheries, Eileen Sobeck regarding other stressors impeding species recovery efforts and the lack of focus on those stressors compared to the focus on reductions in water supplies for the San Joaquin Valley. “The drought that continues to impact California and the San Joaquin Valley in particular, is real and demands the immediate and sustained focus of the federal, state and local governments to address for both the short-term and the long-term,” said Rep. Costa. “There is a high likelihood that at this point, both the east side and west side of the San Joaquin Valley will have severely reduced water allocations from the Bureau of Reclamation, despite the significantly higher precipitation and snowpack California has experienced in the last year.” Costa continued saying, “Some have estimated that restrictions on the operations of the Central Valley Project and State Water Project pumps as a result of discretionary determinations by the Fish and Wildlife Service to limit pumping below what is allowed even within the biological opinions has led to a loss of over 270,000 acre-feet of water, without any commensurate benefit to the Delta smelt. Not only does this completely defy commonsense, but it is avoidable and immoral.” The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service uses an incidental take level (ITL) to determine the amount of smelt that can be legally salvaged by pumping operations while maintaining compliance within the Endangered Species Act. The ITL is the number that defines the authorized take of a species listed under the Endangered Species Act, if the Reasonable and Prudent Alternatives in the biological opinion are followed. The current ITL for delta smelt for this water year is 56, and that the projects have taken 3 smelt, which indexes to 12. “The USFWS and NOAA must use their resources to appropriately manage delta smelt under the Endangered Species Act and include enough funding to monitor species to fine tune operations and not lose water supplies,” said Rep. Costa. “There is no excuse for losing 270,000 acre-feet of water this year, even under the ranges allowable in the biological opinions issued by USFWS and NOAA, when the projects had so much more flexibility to increase pumping without risk of lawsuits under the ESA. This cannot happen again.” The video of Rep. Costa in the U.S. House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Water, Power, and Oceans can be viewed here. ###
03.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) received the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Spirit of Enterprise Award for supporting pro-growth policies to create increased job opportunities in the first session of the 114th Congress. “American businesses, small and large, provide jobs for hard working Americans and are the backbone of our San Joaquin Valley and nation’s economy,” said Rep. Costa. “The U.S. Chamber of Commerce works hard to advocate for policies that support employers so their businesses have the opportunity to succeed. I am honored to receive the Spirit of Enterprise award again in recognition of my support for American businesses and employers." “We are pleased to recognize Rep. Costa for engaging in pro-business policymaking that helps strengthen our nation’s spirit of enterprise,” said Tom Donohue, president and CEO of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “The Spirit of Enterprise Award honors those members of Congress who are committed to ensuring that American businesses can continue to operate and succeed in a free enterprise system.” The Chamber’s prestigious Spirit of Enterprise Award is given annually to members of Congress based on their votes on critical business legislation as outlined in the Chamber publication, How They Voted. Members who supported the Chamber’s position on at least 70 percent of those votes qualify to receive the award. During the first session of the 114th Congress, the Chamber scored members on 14 Senate votes and 20 House votes, including votes reauthorizing the Export-Import Bank and lifting the crude oil export ban. Also scored were votes in support of the first long-term transportation law in a decade and votes to make permanent tax provisions that would have regularly expired. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is the world’s largest business federation representing the interests of more than 3 million businesses of all sizes, sectors, and regions, as well as state and local chambers and industry associations. ###
03.14.2016	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement regarding the determination by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s to reduce the Bureau of Reclamation’s flexibility to pump water at the maximum levels allowable under the flawed biological opinions: “Almost every week that we have been in session this year, I have gone to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to urge that we pump water through the Delta at the maximum levels allowed under the current flawed biological opinions. Clearly, the hydrologic conditions resulting from El Nino in December, January, and now the last two weeks, have provided excess flows that could have been captured for the benefit of the San Joaquin Valley and other parts of California. Sadly, Since January 1st, as a result of U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s (USFWS) and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s (NOAA) actions, we have lost 203,000 acre-feet of water that would have gone to the San Joaquin Valley and Southern California communities. This is unacceptable and could have been avoided, if USFWS and NOAA had listened to a bipartisan group of legislatures in the House and Senate, including Senator Dianne Feinstein. “We must try everything possible to get Senator Feinstein’s legislation out of the Senate so we can move to conference with the legislation introduced by Rep. David Valadao and myself, which the House passed last year with my support. This will allow us to go to a conference committee to combine the best parts of both bills and create greater drought resiliency for the San Joaquin Valley by making pumping decisions more scientifically justified, constructing additional water storage in California, and expanding deployment of recycled water and desalination to reduce demands on the Delta. “In the meantime, it is unacceptable, avoidable, and immoral to allow farm communities in the Valley to continue to go without water, while we are witnessing and experiencing El Nino flows going through the Sacramento-San Joaquin river systems.” ###
03.02.2016	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) released its final rule to repeal mandatory country-of-origin labeling requirements for beef, pork, and chicken. “The USDA released its final rule to repeal mandatory country-of-origin labeling (COOL) requirements for beef, pork, and chicken, and finally, this saga is over,” said Rep. Costa. “The Agricultural Marketing Service at the USDA concluded that failing to repeal COOL would have resulted in $1.8 billion in harsh trade retaliations by Canada and Mexico. Obviously, with the San Joaquin Valley being one of the largest agricultural exporters in the nation, our region would have faced serious economic losses without the repeal of COOL.” Reps. Jim Costa and Michael Conaway (R-TX) introduced H.R. 2393, the Country of Origin Labeling (COOL) Amendments Act which would repeal mandatory Country of Origin Labeling (COOL) requirements for beef, pork, and chicken products, and a version of the measure was part of the bipartisan spending legislation that was passed by Congress in December 2015. Preventing the implementation of these retaliatory tariffs was imperative to ensure that irreparable damage was not done to the agriculture and manufacturing industries and to the overall economy. Costa continued saying, “I applaud the USDA for releasing its final rule to repeal COOL, and I am pleased that exporters in the Central Valley and throughout the nation no longer have to be burdened with the possibility of expensive trade retaliations from our two strongest trading partners, Canada and Mexico.” In May 2015, the World Trade Organization (WTO) announced its fourth and final decision to reject, for a final time, the United States’ appeal regarding COOL. That ruling could have resulted in numerous commodities, many of which are grown in California, facing significant retaliation by Canada and Mexico. This includes top exports from the Central Valley such as cherries, wine, grapes, and tomatoes. H.R. 2393 is a targeted response that provides stability, brought the U.S. back into compliance, and stopped trade retaliations, while improving trade relationships with two of the nation’s top export partners. Additionally, the final rule to repeal COOL does not alter, in any way, current food safety inspection requirements. The USDA’s final rule can be found here. ###
02.10.2016	Washington, D.C. - Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement in response to the introduction of Senator Dianne Feinstein’s California water bill, the California Long-Term Provisions for Water Supply and Short-Term Provisions for Emergency Drought Relief Act: “Senator Feinstein’s introduction of California water legislation is a critical step forward in getting legislation passed and signed into law that will bring relief to San Joaquin Valley communities,” said Rep. Costa. “The Senate bill provides significant support for solving our state’s long-term water challenges by authorizing funds to increase and diversify the state’s water supply, including funding for water storage, desalination, water recycling, reuse and advanced conservation. This funding would complement the ongoing efforts made by the recent passage of the California Water Bond and would give us the money to invest in using all the water tools in our water toolbox.” Costa continued saying, “Last year, Rep. Valadao and I, and the San Joaquin Valley Congressional delegation, introduced H.R. 2898, the Western Water and American Food Security Act. It would provide relief to San Joaquin Valley farmers and communities in the short-term by directing state and federal agencies to maximize the amount of water they are pumping from the Delta, unless there is a direct and identifiable environmental impact. The House has passed a bill that would assist the communities across California with drought recovery. I urge my colleagues in the United States Senate to pass Senator Feinstein’s bill so that we can enter negotiations to move a bill to the President’s desk for signature. Time is of the essence and every day of delay only results in losses of vital water supplies for Californians in need. The bottom line is that if four years of drought have taught us any lesson, it is that California has a broken water system that cannot sustain our economy in the 21st century. It is time to put the politics aside in Washington and Sacramento and fix our water system because our future depends upon it.” The California Long-Term Provisions for Water Supply and Short-Term Provisions for Emergency Drought Relief Act would help communities which are most at risk of having a zero water allocation this year by providing $1.3 billion in funding and support for water storage, desalination, and recycling efforts, while simultaneously directing state and federal agencies to maximize water supplies during the short term while not violating environmental laws that protect threatened and endangered species. ###
02.10.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Reps. Jim Costa (CA-16) and Jeff Denham (CA-10) participated in the U.S. House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Water, Power, and Oceans Hearing on “The Costly Impacts of Predation and Conflicting Federal Statutes on Native and Endangered Fish Species.” “A choice has been made to take water away from San Joaquin Valley communities in dire need of it in order to provide uncertain benefits to species that have been harmed by a host of reasons, including being eaten by non-native species that humans have introduced into the ecosystem,” said Rep. Costa. “This is frankly morally wrong, in my opinion, and should be drawing the national attention like the water crisis in Flint, Michigan.” “This Administration has repeatedly ignored numerous predation bills passed by this committee, including my own, which was passed by the House,” said Rep. Denham. “On behalf of the Californians we represent, we’re pissed off. This Administration continues to talk about social justice. Where is the social justice in our area as our communities suffer through our drought? Our communities are being devastated. It’s time for them to stop dragging their feet.” Federal agencies are uncertain of the impacts of predation on the listed species in the Delta. Reps. Costa and Denham used this hearing as an opportunity to urge the Federal government to take action so we can better understand the impacts of predation and address them, in order to increase the flexibility of California’s water delivery system and deliver more water to California communities impacted by drought. Rep. Costa’s remarks and questions during the committee hearing can be viewed here. Rep. Denham’s remarks and questions during the committee hearing can be viewed here. The witnesses at today’s hearing included: The Honorable Leotis McCormack, Secretary of the Columbia River Inter-Tribal Fish Commission Mr. Will Stelle, Regional Administrator for the West Coast Region of the National Marine Fisheries Service Dr. Gary D. Grossman, Professor of Animal Ecology at Warnell School of Forestry and Natural Resources at the University of Georgia Mr. Doug Demko, President of FishBio ###
02.02.2016	Washington, D.C. - Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 3700, the Housing Opportunity Through Modernization Act of 2015. The House passed H.R. 3700 with unanimous support. “Everyone deserves the opportunity to have safe and reliable housing to go home to every day, and this bipartisan housing reform bill will complement efforts currently being made to combat homelessness in the San Joaquin Valley,” said Rep. Costa. “The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development strives to help families and veterans who are facing dire circumstances and the legislation we passed today will help to better serve those individuals by streamlining processes and creating more flexibility.” H.R. 3700 includes the following three provisions that would directly impact California’s Central Valley: Establish a Special Assistant for Veterans Affairs at the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). Authorize the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development Under Secretary to delegate loan approval authority to participating lenders, which would streamline the process for families to receive a loan through federal rural housing programs. Direct HUD to set minimum heating standards for units operated by public housing agencies receiving federal assistance. The full text of H.R. 3700 can be found here. ###
01.15.2016	Fresno, CA - Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service reduced pumping in the south Delta by a minimum of 3,000 acre-feet per day: “The decision to reduce pumping in the Delta by a minimum of 3,000 acre-feet per day compared to what the regulations allow is unconscionable, especially to those of us who live in the San Joaquin Valley and are facing the most serious effects of our prolonged drought,” said. Rep. Costa. “Every single acre-foot of water is significant to the farmers, farm workers, and communities that I represent in the Valley, and as a result of the determination made by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, a minimum of 3,000 acre feet of water will be lost daily as long as the decision to reduce pumping continues to be implemented.” Costa continued saying, “California is dealing with four consecutive dry years and recent news reports have detailed the effects of El Niño and the resultant flooding up and down the state. However, the drought continues on here in the Valley. Decisions like the one implemented today lack commonsense, and if the state and federal governments continue to implement decisions like the one today, even with the El Niño rains and snow in the mountains and flooding in Southern California, it is more likely than not that farmers in the Valley will receive another zero allocation of water. This is unacceptable and I implore the Administration to retract this decision immediately because the livelihoods of the people throughout the state of California depends on it.” Earlier this week, Rep. Costa spoke on the House floor to express the importance of passing legislation that will provide short-term relief so water from the El Niño rains can be delivered to the San Joaquin Valley. Rep. Costa’s floor speech can be viewed here. The Determination Letter issued by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service can be viewed here. ###
01.13.2016	Fresno, CA – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed S.J.Res. 22. “Maintaining water quality is a fundamental responsibility of the United States government, and the farmers in the Central Valley who grow half the nation’s fruits and vegetables know better than anyone that clean, quality water is essential to the future of this country,” said Rep. Costa. “The process that led to the expansion of jurisdiction of the WOTUS rule was flawed and will impact industries that are vital to our Central Valley economy. That is why I applaud the passage of today’s joint resolution which disapproves the ruling made by the EPA and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and it is my hope that those agencies reassess and review the rule in a way that is rational, scientifically based, and causes minimal impact to our economic interests.” S. J. Res. 22 is a joint resolution providing for Congressional disapproval of the rule submitted by the Corps of Engineers and the Environmental Protection Agency relating to the definition of Waters of the United States (WOTUS) under the Clean Water Act. ###
01.12.2016	Washington, D.C. – Representative Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement in response to President Obama’s final State of the Union Address. “If we compare the state of our nation to seven years ago, I believe that the United States has made progress in many areas, but there is still plenty of work that needs to be done, especially in communities like those in the Valley. The Central Valley’s economy has been slow to recover from the recession, and I am pleased that the President expressed the need to prioritize investments that will provide direct benefits to Valley communities, families, and businesses. Additionally, the President touched on areas where we can continue making progress and are important for Valley residents, including immigration reform, trade, healthcare, and education. “Furthermore, I appreciate that the President highlighted the importance of the United States remaining a global leader not only from a militarily, but also economically and environmentally. Keeping Americans safe at home and abroad is my number one priority in Congress, and I think it is imperative that we maintain a strong military presence here in the United States and throughout the world because it is crucial to defeating ISIL and enhancing global peace and security. “Unfortunately, we did not hear anything from the President in regards to the drought crisis that California is facing. The drought in California is a national issue that is getting worse with each passing day, and if the federal government does not act and work together to pass legislation that takes advantage of the El Nino rains, we will be facing circumstances that are worse than what we are dealing with today. We need more than just attention to the issue. This crisis demands action, and while the President’s failure to speak on the issue is disappointing, I hope my colleagues in the House and Senate can come together to pass legislation that addresses the water needs of the Valley in the short and long term. “There is plenty of frustration amongst Americans today, and I share many of those same feelings. America is at a pivotal juncture, and we can either let our frustration and anger divide us, or we can come together and remember that the bonds we share are much stronger than the things that divide us. Keeping these principles in mind, we have the responsibility to compromise and work together to move our country in a better direction. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to improve conditions for the residents of the Valley.” ###
12.30.2015	Fresno, CA – Rep. Jim Costa released the following statement strongly condemning the hate crime against Amrik Singh Bal, a Sikh man from Fresno, California. “The hate crime that took place in Fresno on Saturday is both inexcusable and intolerable. Sadly, since September 11, 2001, the Sikh community has endured discrimination because of the lack of understanding about Sikhism, which is based on equality and love. “As a nation of immigrants, we have the opportunity to learn and benefit from thousands of different cultures, and that is part of what makes the United States special. We must never forget that. Every American citizen regardless of race, creed, or gender has the right to live free of discrimination and fear. “My thoughts and prayers are with Mr. Singh and his family. I commend all of the agencies that are working diligently to find the two individuals who are responsible for the attack.” In 2013, the U.S. Department of Justice added Sikh to the categories they track for hate crime offenses in the United States, and Rep. Costa applauded that decision. ###
12.18.2015	Washington, DC — Today, Representative Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed a spending bill that will keep government funded for the current fiscal year. “From repealing the Country-of-Origin-Labeling requirement for pork and beef to making over $3 billion in non-tax payer money available to crime victims, the spending bill passed today by the House has several wins for California’s San Joaquin Valley,” said Rep. Costa. “Responsible governance requires compromise, and this legislation is the result of Democrats and Republicans working together for the greater good of our country.” Costa continued saying, “I am pleased that provisions in the Dams Accountability, Maintenance, and Safety (DAMS) Act, legislation introduced by Congressman Valadao and me, are part of the spending bill passed today. The measure will authorize the Bureau of Reclamation to update and modernize our nation’s federal dams when critical safety work is being performed, and increase storage capacity of San Luis Reservoir. While long-term solutions like the DAMS Act are necessary to fixing California’s broken water system, we desperately need to pass legislation that will help in the short-term. My hope was to get language in the spending bill that would provide short-term solutions, and unfortunately, that did not happen. I am optimistic that the House and Senate will come together and pass California water legislation at the beginning of the new year. Failing to do so would be a disservice to all Californians, and is both unacceptable and avoidable.” The spending legislation includes the following provisions: $100 million for drought relief. Funding for early learning, primary, and secondary education. Funding for medical research at National Institute of Health. $500 million for TIGER grants which are used across the country to repair infrastructure and contribute to economic growth. Funding for law enforcement, including $187 million COPS hiring grants, $80 million for the Community Policing Initiative, including $22.5 million for body-worn cameras and $15 million for Byrne Criminal Justice Innovation grants. Funding for specialty crop pest detections. Funding for critical nutrition programs, including SNAP and WIC. Repeal of Country-of-Origin-Labeling (COOL) for pork and beef. If Congress did not pass a measure to repeal COOL, the U.S would have faced over $1 billion in harsh trade retaliations by Canada and Mexico. Preventing the implementation of these retaliatory tariffs was imperative to ensure that irreparable damage was not done to the agriculture and manufacturing industries and to the overall economy. Language from the Dams Accountability, Maintenance, and Safety (DAMS) Act. Over $3 billion for services and compensation for crime victims. Repeal of the ban on crude oil exports. New technologies have provided the United States with an abundance of domestic crude oil production and expanding our export opportunities to include crude oil, in addition to gasoline and natural gas products, will further stimulate our economy and create jobs. Three year reauthorization of Land and Water Conservation Fund. ###
12.17.2015	Washington, DC — Today, Representative Jim Costa (CA-16) voted in support of the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes (PATH) Act of 2015. This legislation includes tax credits for working families, businesses, and research and development. “Many of the tax extenders that passed today in the House will directly benefit individuals, businesses, and communities in the San Joaquin Valley,” said Rep. Costa. “Furthermore, the tax credits for research and development will help the United States continue as the global leader in research advancements, and that is vital for moving this country forward.” Costa continued saying, “Getting a comprehensive tax reform bill passed and signed into law is what this country needs, but the unfortunate reality of today is that the political differences in this Congress are too strong for real tax reform. It is my hope that the legislation passed today is a first step in Congress coming together to craft a robust tax reform package that will allow our economy to grow and provide more certainty for families and businesses in the Valley.” The Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act of 2015 makes about 50 tax provisions permanent, including: The Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) which benefits low- and middle-income working families. The American Opportunity Tax Credit (AOTC) helps individuals pay down college debt. The Small Business Expensing credit allows for small businesses that have less than $2 million in assets to expense as much as $500,000 in property. And the R&D Credit benefits a broad range of industries, including defense, health care, and technology. ###
12.14.2015	Fresno, CA – Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement regarding California water legislation. “For months, my Republican and Democratic colleagues have been working on short- and long-term solutions for California’s drought stricken economy. Those of us from the San Joaquin Valley have been working on it for years. Many of us are fearful that California will receive the much anticipated El Niño rains and snow in the mountains over the next four months, and yet we will not be able to move as much water through the Delta as we need, and many farm communities will end up with another zero allocation of water. This would be devastating, and is both unacceptable and avoidable. My colleagues and I all agree that we have come very close to reaching an agreement on how we can take advantage of excess flows during these storms. “I urge Senators Feinstein and Boxer and my Republican and Democratic colleagues in the House to not give up. We can all retreat to our political corners and point fingers to lay blame, but that will not bring us desperately needed water next year, nor will it address the very real harm done to the very people we have the honor to represent. “The fact is we still have to work together to accomplish this very difficult task, and I will continue to work with the multiple parties involved in these negotiations to try to bridge the conflicts. I understand we are all frustrated, but it is our responsibility to the people of California to come together and agree on solutions that will reach our goal of bringing water to regions of our state that could receive no water allocation next year, even with an exceptional El Niño event. Doing anything else would be irresponsible and a disservice to all Californians.” ###
12.10.2015	Washington, DC—Rep. Jim Costa announced a holiday card drive for Valley veterans. As we celebrate the holiday season, Costa invites residents of the 16th Congressional District to show our appreciation to those who have served our country. The cards will be delivered to local veterans receiving care at the Fresno VA Medical Center. “Valley veterans are our nation’s heroes, and the debt we owe them for protecting our freedom and values is immeasurable,” said Rep. Costa. “A small gesture can remind them that they are in our thoughts and prayers. As we celebrate the holiday season, please consider taking a moment to get involved and show your appreciation.” Constituents are encouraged to drop cards off at Rep. Costa’s Fresno or Merced district offices by December 22nd. If mailing cards, please place them in a separate envelope and send to: Congressman Jim Costa “Holiday Cards for Veterans” 855 M St, Suite 940 Fresno, CA 93721 All cards should be unaddressed, signed, and placed in unsealed envelopes. Please refrain from purchasing or making cards that include glitter. For more information, please contact Rep. Costa’s office at 559-495-1620 or 209-384-1620. ###
12.08.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 158, the Visa Waiver Program Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act. Rep. Jim Costa released the following statement after H.R. 158 passed the House by a recorded vote of 407-19. “Protecting and defending American citizens from all enemies, foreign and domestic is my first responsibility, and modifying the current Visa Waiver Program will improve our continuing efforts to keep Americans safe,” said Rep. Costa. “The legislation passed today enforces much stricter guidelines on individuals who would like to visit the United States and will make it more difficult for terrorists to use false identities. While this bipartisan legislation is a strong step forward in keeping terrorists out of the country, we must continue to work together in developing and implementing a long-term comprehensive plan to combat terrorism and terrorist supporters.” Provisions in the Visa Waiver Program Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act include: In order to travel to the United States, travelers from Visa Waiver Program (VWP) countries must have an electronic passport (“e-passport”) that is fraud-resistant, contains relevant biographic and biometric information, and otherwise satisfies internationally accepted standards for electronic passports. VWP countries have to certify that their ports of entry can validate these electronic passports. Countries that do not share information on citizens or nationals traveling to the United States that represent a threat to the security of the United States will be removed from the VWP. Countries that do not screen all travelers to the United States for unlawful activity against relevant “databases and notices” maintained by INTERPOL (International Criminal Police Organization) will be removed from the VWP. Nationals of VWP countries who have traveled to Iraq, Syria, designated state sponsors of terrorism (Iran and Sudan), and other “countries or areas of concern” since March 1, 2011, as well as anyone who is a dual national of one of those countries and a VWP country, ineligible to travel to the U.S. under the VWP. Instead, they are required to obtain a visa, as visitors from non-VWP countries have to do. That means, as described above, that they have to have an in-person interview with a U.S. Department of State Consular official and undergo more extensive security screening, including biometric security screening. ###
12.07.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after the World Trade Organization (WTO) arbitration panel announced its final ruling that Canada and Mexico can impose retaliatory tariffs, totaling over $1 billion, on imported United States goods because of damages caused by the mandatory U.S. Country-of-Origin-Labeling (COOL) rule for beef and pork. “If Congress does not act swiftly, the U.S will face over $1 billion in harsh trade retaliations by Canada and Mexico,” said Rep. Costa. “We must prevent the implementation of these retaliatory tariffs before irreparable damage is done to the agriculture and manufacturing industries and to the overall economy. American jobs and businesses would be threatened if these tariffs are implemented, especially in our San Joaquin Valley. Country-of-Origin-Labeling is a failed policy that has increased costs for ranchers and processors and is hurting the trade relationship with our top export partners, Canada and Mexico. I strongly urge my colleagues in the House and Senate to support the repeal of COOL as part of the spending legislation that the House is expected to pass in the coming days.” Earlier this year, Reps. Costa and Michael Conaway (TX-11) introduced H.R. 2393, the Country-of-Origin-Labeling Amendments Act of 2015, and the U.S. House of Representatives passed the legislation by a recorded vote of 300-131. H.R. 2393 repeals mandatory COOL requirements for beef, pork, and chicken products while leaving intact the requirement for all other covered commodities. The legislation does not alter current food safety inspection requirements. Rep. Costa sent a letter to House and Senate leadership urging them to include H.R. 2393 as part of the Omnibus Appropriations bill. ###
12.03.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Jim Costa (CA-16) voted to pass the conference report to the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act. The bipartisan legislation reauthorizes highway, bridge, transportation safety, and public transit projects at $305 billion and provides $281 billion in guaranteed funding for these programs over the next five years. “Today’s passage of a five-year transportation reauthorization bill is a step forward for our country,” said Rep. Costa. “Democrats and Republicans worked across the aisle and made compromises for the greater good of this country, and that is how our government is supposed to function. The legislation passed today will provide certainty for communities in Fresno, Madera, and Merced and throughout the nation so they can plan and prioritize local transportation projects.” Costa continued saying, “While this is a positive step in the right direction, I am disappointed that the legislation does not include more robust funding to repair and rebuild many of our nation’s roads, bridges, and public transit systems. Frankly, if we truly want to move this country forward, then investments in infrastructure will have to be made. This should have been addressed in the bill that passed the House of Representatives today. I will continue to work with my colleagues to find appropriate funding mechanisms so we can make long-term investments in our Central Valley and nation.” In June, Rep. Costa and other Members of the California delegation sent a letter to the U.S. House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure requesting provisions of great importance to California’s transportation systems. From increasing transit funding to dedicating specific funding for freight projects, many of the requested provisions made it into the final bill. The conference report does include a number of key provisions, including: Boosting commerce and strengthening our economic competitiveness by providing dedicated funding specifically for freight projects, including freight rail, for the first time. Injecting $3.7 billion over five years into bus funding – a 75 percent increase over current levels. This will reduce traffic congestion by providing more public transportation options. Authorizing $10.2 billion for intercity passenger rail investment, including Amtrak, while providing $199 million in guaranteed funding to help commuter railroads implement Positive Train Control systems. Increasing American manufacturing jobs by strengthening Buy America requirements. ###
12.02.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after the Conference Report on S. 1177, the Every Student Succeeds Act passed in the U.S. House of Representatives with strong bipartisan support. S. 1177 would reauthorize the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) and replace No Child Left Behind. “The legislation that passed today is a result of Democrats and Republicans working together on a bipartisan basis to improve our elementary and secondary education system,” said Rep. Costa. “The young people in our Central Valley and throughout the nation are the future of this country, and we must provide the necessary resources and support to educators and administrators to ensure that all students have an opportunity to succeed. I am pleased that the Every Student Succeeds Act gives more flexibility to local school districts, improves accountability, and empowers educators.” Costa continued saying, “I hope this Congress continues to work on a bipartisan basis with the President to pass legislation that will move this country forward. It is crucial that we pass drought relief legislation that will bring more water to our Central Valley in addition to passing a spending bill to avert a government shutdown.” The Every Student Succeeds Act includes several key provisions that would help states to improve low-performing schools, target funds to at-risk children, help states increase teacher quality, improve accountability for learning outcomes, and provide funding flexibility to enhance support for students and schools. ###
11.25.2015	Merced, CA – Today, Representative Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement in advance of the National Thanksgiving Turkey presentation. President Obama will pardon the National Thanksgiving Turkey which has been raised by Foster Farms in California’s Central Valley. “It gives me great pride to give a shout out to Foster Farms, headquartered in my district, for raising the turkey that will be presented to the President for pardon but more importantly, for their efforts to make their poultry products among the best in the nation,” said Rep. Costa. “The event highlights the important role that Foster Farms and the turkey industry have in our nation’s agricultural economy.” Since 1947, the National Turkey Federation has presented a turkey to the President for pardon. This is the second time in five years that Foster Farms has raised the official Presidential Turkey for pardon. ###
11.19.2015	Washington, DC – Representative Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 4038, the American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act of 2015. Rep. Costa voted in favor of H.R. 4038, and the legislation passed the House with strong bipartisan support. “The world is facing a humanitarian crisis, and it is a serious problem,” said Rep. Costa. “As a Member of Congress, my first responsibility is to protect and defend American citizens from all enemies, foreign and domestic. Recent terrorist attacks have led Congress to reassess the processes the United States uses to grant entry to refugees who are seeking safety in this country. The legislation that passed today strives to strengthen our current system, but it is a work in progress. If our legislative efforts are going to succeed, then this Congress must work closely with the President. This is not a partisan issue, and it is essential that we come together and assure the American people that our humanitarian efforts do not threaten American lives. In addition to ensuring a strict and thorough vetting process is in place, we need to pursue a comprehensive effort that includes working with our allies to end the civil war and dangerous conflicts in Syria.” Costa continued saying, “Let’s face it; these terrorists have declared war on Western civilization and our very way of life. With the worldwide attention and support for defeating terrorism, America has a new opportunity to draw a line in the sand and lead a global coalition. If a strong global coalition is put in place, we can successfully combat terrorism and bring the terrorists responsible for these horrific crimes against humanity to justice. Clearly this is costly and more sacrifices will be made, but developing and implementing a long-term comprehensive plan is the only way to protect our freedoms and way of life.” H.R. 4038 would require the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and Office of the Director of National Intelligence to unanimously agree that a refugee from Syria or Iraq does not pose a threat to our national security. Additionally, DHS would be required to submit a monthly report to Congress outlining the individuals who have been reviewed with the decisions of the three entities. Rep. Costa spoke on the House floor regarding the importance of the United States leading the global effort to defeat terrorism. His speech can be viewed here. ###
11.15.2015	Fresno, CA – Representative Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement in response to the terrorist attacks in Paris this past Friday. "My thoughts and prayers are with the people of France, especially with the victims and their families. "Clearly, the United States, our allies, and those that oppose terrorist groups must come together on a comprehensive plan for eliminating terrorist organizations like ISIL and Al-Qaeda. The time has come to draw a line in the sand and for America to provide leadership and use all the resources at our disposal to eliminate terrorist organizations and their supporters. "I intend to be part of a bipartisan effort to ask the President to put together and implement a comprehensive plan with our allies. Together, if a strong global coalition is put in place, we can successfully combat terrorism and make terrorists pay for their horrific crimes against humanity. "We must understand that this will be costly and sacrifices will have to be made, but a long-term comprehensive plan is required to protect our freedoms and way of life." ###
11.10.2015	Fresno, CA – Representatives Jim Costa (CA-16) and Mike Bost (IL-12) introduced H.R. 3956, the VA Health Center Management Stability and Improvement Act. This bipartisan legislation would require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA) to develop and submit a plan to Congress to hire qualified permanent directors for the medical centers that currently do not have permanent leadership. “VA medical centers, including the Fresno VA hospital, are operating without a permanent director, and that could be a disadvantage for hospital staff and the veterans they serve,” said Rep. Costa. “The Fresno VA hospital works diligently to serve our Valley veterans, but the constant rotation of acting directors is not good for long-term planning and staff morale. This bipartisan legislation aims to enhance health care services provided to veterans by improving management at VA medical centers here in California and across the country. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the House, Senate, and Administration to get this bill passed and signed into law.” “No business or organization can successfully operate under a revolving door of interim leaders – certainly not one tasked with caring for America’s heroes,” said Rep. Bost. “At a time when restoring accountability and leadership at the VA is a primary focus, we can’t afford to continue operating in this haphazard way. As a veteran myself, I’m pleased to do my part in providing the stability necessary to ensure our veterans receive the best care possible.” In addition to requiring the Secretary of VA to develop a plan to hire permanent directors in all medical centers, H.R. 3956 would identify possible impediments to staff facilities with permanent directors, and would assess the possibility of promoting and training qualified candidates within the VA for promotion to Senior Executive Service positions. ###
11.05.2015	Washington, DC - Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 3763, the Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act of 2015. “Funding our nation’s transportation systems is one of Congress’ most important responsibilities. Finally, after six years, Congress passed long-term legislation that will provide funding for our highways, bridges, roads, and public transit,” said Rep. Costa. "San Joaquin Valley residents know all too well that many of our roads and highways are in desperate need of repair. We must make critical investments for not only safer transportation systems but also to provide jobs for hard working individuals right here in our Valley. While the bill that passed today is a welcome first step in addressing our nation’s urgent transportation needs, I hope Congress will continue to work toward passing legislation that will provide certainty for states and local governments to make long-term investments in their transportation infrastructure.” H.R. 3763 reauthorizes highway, bridge, transportation safety, and public transit projects for six years at the current funding levels plus inflation and identifies funding sources for the first three years. In July, the Senate passed similar long-term transportation reauthorization legislation. The House and Senate will now go to conference to negotiate differences in the bills. ###
11.05.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Jim Costa (CA-16) spoke on the House floor and released a statement in response to the stabbing incident at the University of California, Merced. “Yesterday’s incident was a tragic act of violence, and my thoughts and prayers go out to the victims and the entire UC Merced community,” said. Rep. Costa. “The courage and strength shown at the University over the past twenty-four hours is truly remarkable. Chancellor Leland and her staff have built a community at UC Merced that is very special, and I know their tight-knit community will help in getting everyone through this difficult time. As more information becomes available and the investigation unfolds, my prayers will continue to be with the victims and UC Merced students, faculty, and staff.” Representative Costa’s speech can be viewed here. ###
10.29.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after Speaker Paul Ryan was sworn in as Speaker of the United States House of Representatives. “I am hopeful that Speaker Paul Ryan will follow through on his commitment in working across the aisle to encourage Republicans and Democrats to join together and forge compromise, bipartisan solutions that will put our country on a successful path forward,” said Rep. Costa. “The American people are frustrated and there are many challenges, from tax reform to debt reduction that Speaker Ryan will have to address as the leader of the House. I look forward to working with him and all of my colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives on these important issues so we can ensure, as Speaker Ryan stated very well today, opportunity for all Americans.” Costa continued saying, “It was a privilege to serve with former Speaker John Boehner. Representative Boehner served this country with dedication and commitment, and I wish him and his family all the best.” ###
10.28.2015	Washington, DC – Representative Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Bipartisan Budget Agreement of 2015. If signed into law, the legislation would raise sequester level caps by $80 billion over the next two years and is fully offset. Additionally, sequester caps for defense and non-defense discretionary spending will both be raised by $25 billion in Fiscal Year 2016 and $15 billion in Fiscal Year 2017. “I am pleased that the United States will avoid defaulting on its debt, but our nation still faces great economic and fiscal challenges,” said Rep. Costa. “The two year budget deal passed by the House is undoubtedly a better choice than implementing reckless sequestration cuts that would have caused real harm to residents in California’s San Joaquin Valley. However, I am disappointed that House leadership and the President failed to address real tax and entitlement reform when drafting the bipartisan budget agreement.” Costa continued saying, “The budget that passed today was a bipartisan compromise, and with any compromise, there are going to be wins and losses for all the parties involved. I share the same concern as those in the agriculture industry that the provisions regarding crop insurance could be harmful. As a member of the House Agriculture Committee, I will do everything I can to ensure the issue is resolved and the agreement made between House leadership and the Administration is upheld during the appropriations process. Additionally, I am disappointed that $1.5 billion has been permanently cancelled from the Crime Victims Fund, a fund that contains absolutely no tax payer money and is intended to provide support services for some of the most vulnerable in our society. These provisions are not ideal, but we cannot lose sight of the bigger picture which is the House passed a two year budget that will get rid of the across the board spending cuts that could have had devastating impacts to our recovering economy. It also does a number of positive things, including offering a solution to the pending spike in Medicare premiums, stopping a drastic reduction in Social Security Disability Income benefits and avoiding substantial tax hikes that would harm the economy.” Costa closed by saying, “Let’s not wait 18 months before we start thinking about another budget agreement. Now is the time to start crafting a serious plan that recognizes the hard choices we must make and provides real solutions. We need a federal budget that will foster growth and a healthy national and Valley economy, so it is my hope that Congress acts responsibly and works together on a bipartisan, long-term budget that will focus on debt reduction to put our country on a sustainable fiscal path.” Congressman Costa sent letters to House leadership expressing his strong concerns regarding the crop insurance provision and the $1.5 billion reduction in the Crime Victims Fund. ###
10.21.2015	Washington, DC – Representative Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 692, the Default Prevention Act. “The legislation that was passed today is not a real solution to addressing the fast approaching deadline of the United States defaulting on its loans,” said Rep. Costa. “Instead, today’s vote risks the full faith and credit that Americans and other countries have in the United States government. The Default Prevention Act takes an approach of paying some of our debts and not others, and that is simply irresponsible. Congress must act swiftly and have a serious discussion about how we put our country on a sustainable fiscal path.” Costa continued saying, “This Congress must get back to governing responsibly because if we continue to act in crisis mode, it could severely impact economically challenged regions like the San Joaquin Valley. In addition to raising our debt limit, we must make long-term investments and pass a compromise, bipartisan budget to ensure economic growth in the Valley and throughout the nation.” The United States is expected to reach its debt limit on November 3, 2015. Congressman Costa is a cosponsor of H.R. 3757, the Stop Pay for Members Act, which would keep Members of Congress from receiving pay if the United States defaults on its loans. ###
10.05.2015	Fresno, CA - Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) released the following statement upon the conclusion of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) ministerial meeting. “The Trans-Pacific Partnership agreement, reached by the United States and eleven other countries, is the most ambitious and comprehensive trade deal in history,” said Rep. Jim Costa. “I commend Trade Ambassador Michael Froman, Chief Agricultural Negotiator Ambassador Darci Vetter, and the United States Trade Representative’s negotiators, for their tireless efforts.” Costa continued saying, “Over the course of the next several months, I will fully review the agreement to verify whether the agreement expands market access for U.S. exports while promoting and advancing critical labor, environmental, and intellectual property standards in global trade. We must ensure that this trade deal benefits hard working American families and is in the best interest of American workers, including Central Valley farmers, ranchers, dairymen and affiliated industries. I look forward reviewing the agreement and continuing a dialogue with my constituents regarding global trade policy.” The TPP was negotiated by the United States and eleven other countries which include Australia, Canada, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, Peru, Vietnam, Chile, Brunei, Singapore, and New Zealand. Negotiations began in November 2009. ###
09.10.2015	WASHINGTON – The Blue Dog Coalition announced their support today for H.R. 702, a bill to repeal the ban on crude oil exports in the United States. The Coalition backs the bill as changing market conditions have proven that the 1970’s-era ban on crude exports is hopelessly outdated. Among countries with the largest energy reserves, the United States is the sole nation that prohibits the export of its own domestically-produced oil. The bill repeals a section of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 1975, which gives the president the authority to restrict oil exports. "It makes no sense that the U.S. can export refined oil products, but not crude oil," said Blue Dog Co-Chair for Administration Kurt Schrader (OR-05). "Currently, crude oil from the U.S., one of the world’s leading producers, is excluded from determining the global market price of oil. In order to expand our markets and decrease gasoline prices globally, this ban must be lifted. Allowing U.S. oil into foreign markets also has the potential to increase stability in volatile regions of the world by creating competition on the global market and limiting the ability of countries like Russia to use crude oil as a political weapon. Lifting this ban would help improve the U.S.’s trade balance problem and improve the future budget picture for America. It’s high time that Congress moves forward on this commonsense, bipartisan and straightforward solution to a ban which has outlived its usefulness.” “For the first time in two decades, we are producing more oil than we are buying from foreign countries,” said Blue Dog Co-Chair for Policy Jim Cooper (TN-05). “And our gas production is at an all-time high and growing so fast that we will soon be producing more than we will be able to use at home. The boost to job creation that comes from low energy prices and weaning ourselves from foreign oil is huge, and gives us an international competitive advantage. All of this, including exporting crude, gives us a chance to become an energy leader and we shouldn’t squander this opportunity.” “The ban on crude oil exports is an outdated policy that frankly, no longer makes sense,” said Blue Dog Co-Chair for Communications Jim Costa (CA-16). “New technologies have provided the United States with an abundance of domestic crude oil production and expanding our export opportunities to include crude oil, in addition to gasoline and natural gas products, will further stimulate our economy and create jobs. Additionally, and importantly, providing our domestic producers the ability to sell crude oil to the global market will reduce the geopolitical influence of bad actors like Iran and Russia. This is commonsense, bipartisan legislation that will have a positive impact here in the United States and abroad.” “As the representative for one of the largest oil-producing regions in the country, I have seen the negative effects of the crude oil export ban on industry in my district,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), lead Democratic whip for the bill. “With jobs being lost and equipment being taken offline, we need to take proactive steps to ensure that the new product being drawn out of the ground with new extraction technologies can be sold. Lifting the ban will benefit the U.S. economy and will likely lead to lower gas prices. It will also jump-start the economy by creating as many as 800,000 new jobs.” H.R. 702 currently has 123 cosponsors from both parties and will receive a vote in the House Subcommittee on Energy and Power tomorrow. The legislation received a hearing in the Subcommittee in July.
09.08.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Jim Costa released the following statement in support of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), the agreement negotiated between Iran and the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, the European Union, China, and Russia: “This is one of the most important foreign policy decisions that our country has faced in years. Over the past several weeks, I have read the agreement and reviewed the classified portions multiple times. Additionally, I met with Valley residents, read constituent inquiries, and spoke with policy experts who have served in both Republican and Democratic administrations. After weighing the pluses and minuses, I have come to the conclusion that although the agreement is not perfect, it is our best option to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons in the Middle East because if Iran complies, this agreement will ensure a nuclear-free Iran for the next 15 years. “The threat of a nuclear-armed Iran has loomed over the global community for far too long, and we have to face the reality that Iran is two to three months away from developing enough fissile material for a nuclear weapon. The deal blocks all of Iran’s potential pathways to a nuclear weapon through a number of requirements such as setting a maximum uranium enrichment level well below weapons-grade, dismantling the Arak heavy water reactor, reducing the number of centrifuges for enriching uranium, and decreasing Iran’s uranium stockpile by more than 98 percent. Furthermore, the uranium supply chain will be monitored from the mines to R&D facilities so the International Atomic Energy Agency’s (IAEA) inspectors should quickly know if Iran tries to divert uranium to covert facilities. The IAEA will have managed access to all suspected nuclear facilities as well as daily access to all declared nuclear sites. I support the IAEA’s inspection regime, the most rigorous in history, and recognize that it sets a strong precedent for addressing other illicit or rogue nuclear programs in the future. “Finally, the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) was not negotiated only between the United States and Iran but with the United Kingdom, Germany, France, the European Union, China, and Russia. Their willingness to go forward with lifting sanctions whether or not the United States supports the deal, means this deal will go into effect regardless of U.S. approval. One of my fears is that if we walk away from the agreement, then the United States and Israel could become isolated from our allies in dealing with other threats in the Middle East and throughout the world. “Many leaders who are experts in Middle East relations, including former Secretary of State Colin Powell and former Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta, support the deal with the caveat that it needs to be part of a larger approach. Secretary Panetta presented five steps for a comprehensive approach that strives not only to ensure Iran does not obtain a nuclear weapon but also focuses on strengthening the global coalition to prevent terrorism. They are as follows: Enforce the deal. Maintain a strong military presence. Expand intelligence capability. Make it clear that force is an option. Bolster the Middle East coalition. “I intend to do everything I can to ensure that this agreement is part of a larger strategy. Following through on this comprehensive strategy is imperative because the simple fact is we do not trust Iran. The regime’s disregard for human rights and role as a terrorism financier deeply troubles me. However, by blocking Iran’s pathways to a nuclear weapon, the agreement gives the United States and our allies more space to address those issues without the omnipresent threat of nuclear war. Additionally, lifting sanctions has the potential to support a middle class that we hope could be a viable force against the extremist regime currently in power. We must also reaffirm our continued support for Israel. “This agreement does not exist in a vacuum; it is neither the start nor end to the United States’ involvement in the Middle East. All options remain on the table, including military force. The JCPOA must be part of a larger, comprehensive strategy that Congress and the President should do everything possible to pursue, and I will certainly do my part. “This was a difficult decision to make, and I greatly appreciate all of the correspondence and inquiries I received regarding the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action. Representing the residents of California’s San Joaquin Valley is an honor and privilege. While I respectfully disagree with those who oppose the agreement, many who are friends and whose opinions I very much respect, I support this agreement because it is our best option, and the reality is we are not going to get a better deal.” ###
08.25.2015	Madera, CA – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) announced $400,000 for Camarena Health in Madera County. The grant is made available through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Health Resources and Services Administration. The funding will go toward improving and establishing facilities to boost health services in rural areas. “It is a pleasure to announce grant funding for Camarena Health,” said Rep. Costa. “Community health centers like Camarena Health work to ensure that all individuals have access to quality, affordable care. This investment will allow Camarena Health to continue their efforts in serving residents who live in rural communities throughout Madera and depend on these health services.” “I am very pleased that HRSA selected Camarena Health as one of its grant recipients,” said Paulo Soares, Chief Executive Officer of Camarena Health. “The funds provided to Camarena Health through this funding opportunity will allow for a new access point to high quality and affordable health care for the residents of Madera. Camarena Health seeks to provide access to health care for approximately 3,000 new patients in the coming years with this new funding.” For 35 years, Camarena Health has provided health services to Madera County residents. Community health centers provide a full range of primary, preventative care, and supportive services to an underserved population, including migrant and seasonal farm workers.
08.25.2015	Merced, CA – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) announced a combined total of $1,601,548 for community health centers in Merced County. Livingston Community Health received $1,118,215 and Golden Valley Health Centers received $483,333. These grants are made available through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Health Resources and Services Administration. The funding will go toward improving and establishing facilities to boost health services in rural areas. “It is a pleasure to announce grant funding for two community health centers in California's San Joaquin Valley,” said Rep. Costa. “Livingston Community Health and Golden Valley Health Centers work to ensure that all individuals have access to quality health services. This investment will allow them to continue their efforts in serving residents who live in rural communities throughout Merced County and depend on these health centers.” “LCH is thrilled to have been awarded funding and support to open its first site in Stanislaus County after our 45 years of service based in Merced County,” said Leslie McGowan, Chief Executive Officer of Livingston Community Health. “We are proud to expand access to medical, dental and behavioral health services to the residents of Waterford and the surrounding communities.” “We appreciate the acknowledgement that there is a great need for access to healthcare in the community of Ceres,” said Tony Weber, Chief Executive Officer of Golden Valley Health Centers. “We are honored to be given this award that will allow us to expand our organization and extend medical, dental, and behavioral health services to the residents of this area." Community health centers provide a full range of primary, preventative care, and supportive services to an underserved population, including migrant and seasonal farm workers.
08.20.2015	Fresno, CA – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) welcomed Congressman John Lewis (GA-5) to California’s 16th Congressional District. John Lewis is a U.S. Congressman who represents Georgia’s 5th Congressional District. Congressman Lewis marched alongside Martin Luther King, Jr. during the 1960’s civil rights movement. “It is truly an honor to have Congressman John Lewis here in California’s San Joaquin Valley,” said Rep. Costa. “Congressman Lewis is a civil rights leader who was literally on the frontlines fighting to ensure that all men and women, regardless of race, are treated equally. He serves as an inspiration for all of us who strive to make this nation a better place for generations to come.” Costa continued saying, “It is fitting and appropriate to have Congressman Lewis here as we celebrate Fresno EOC’s 50th anniversary. Both Congressman Lewis and Fresno EOC are dedicated to ensuring equal opportunity for all. By aiming to reduce poverty and expanding economic opportunity, Fresno EOC has changed the lives of countless San Joaquin Valley residents. I would like to congratulate Brian Angus and the Fresno EOC staff on this very special anniversary and also graciously thank Congressman Lewis for being with us today.” “Fresno EOC is privileged to host an inspiring and motivating civil rights icon as Representative John Lewis to our community,” said Brian Angus, Chief Executive Officer of Fresno EOC. “Congressman Lewis’ personal and political focus on social justice aligns with Fresno EOC’s strategic goals for social justice, education, health and employment. His visit to Fresno will without doubt be a historical experience for all involved.” This year marks Fresno EOC’s 50th anniversary. Fresno EOC hosted a screening of the movie, Selma. After the movie, Congressmen Costa and Lewis participated in a discussion with Councilman Oliver Baines, and answered questions regarding voting rights and civil rights. The Congressmen also attended a prayer luncheon at Family Community Church hosted by the West Fresno Faith-Based Organization. This evening, Congressman Lewis will be the keynote speaker at a dinner celebrating Fresno EOC’s 50th anniversary. ###
08.17.2015	Merced, CA – Rep. Jim Costa announced that $297,977 in federal funding from the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation is being awarded to the Merced Irrigation Direction (MID). The funding will go toward developing a Drought Protection Water Management Model. The model will help MID prepare for future droughts by enabling them to better predict and respond to drought conditions. “Data collection is imperative when it comes to understanding best practices for water conservation and management,” said Rep. Costa. “This Drought Protection Water Management Model will improve the Merced Irrigation District’s ability to track where their water is going, so more water can be made available to Central Valley farmers and farm communities. My Congressional colleagues and I are working hard to pass federal drought legislation before the rainy season begins, and every day we pray for rain this winter and snow in the mountains. In the meantime, it is vital that California’s local water districts have the best and most modern tools to manage and conserve water, and this funding provides additional resources to MID so they are better equipped for drought conditions.” "This funding will allow the District to improve modeling that is intended to increase the reliability of water supply and sustainability, enhance water management and increase operational flexibility while also providing benefits for fish, wildlife, and the environment,” said Mike Jensen, MID Public and Government Relations Manager. “We appreciate this federal grant funding and Rep. Costa’s advocacy for the District.” This grant is made available through the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation’s WaterSMART program, which focuses on improving water conservation and sustainability and helps water resource managers with decision making related to water use. ###
07.16.2015	WASHINGTON, DC –Today, the Western Water and American Food Security Act of 2015, of which Rep. Costa is an original cosponsor, was passed by the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 245-176. Rep. Costa’s amendment to increase accountability for environmental water flows was adopted as part of the final bill. “Today’s passage of the Western Water and American Food Security Act is an important step towards fixing our broken water system and providing relief to the families of the drought-ravaged San Joaquin Valley and California. This legislation was developed in an inclusive approach that utilizes the most modern science to increase the flexibility of water delivery in the short-term and provide a streamlined process to increase water storage in the long-term, thereby bringing desperately needed water to our Valley. Additionally, with the adoption of my amendment, this bill creates accountability and transparency to current environmental water releases by requiring data collection and reporting of the measured outcomes. “The Western Water and American Food Security Act provides short and long-term solutions to our water crisis, and I look forward to working on a bipartisan basis with my colleagues in the Senate to pass meaningful, comprehensive drought legislation.” ###
07.14.2015	Washington, DC- Today, Rep. Costa offered three amendments before the Rules Committee, in a continued effort to improve H.R. 2898, the Western Water and American Food Security Act of 2015, of which he is an original co-sponsor. The amendments offered would increase storage at Lake McClure by providing a process to raise the spillway gates of New Exchequer Dam, would utilize existing National Guard resources to assist communities impacted by the drought and would increase accountability for environmental water flows. “The Western Water and American Food Security Act of 2015 is a positive step towards fixing our broken water system, however, I believe more can be done to provide viable and efficient solutions to mitigate the damage being done to the people of California, and in particular the people of the San Joaquin Valley, as a result the ongoing drought. Today, I offered three amendments that would bring more resources and flexibility to bear to address drought conditions affecting Valley communities. The amendments would increase water storage capacity at Lake McClure in Merced County, would prioritize areas of extreme drought to train units of the National Guard with well drilling capability and would increase accountability for environmental water releases. “As we know, environmental flows being prioritized over human needs is disproportionately impacting Californians, including those from rural and disadvantaged communities. I am glad that the House will hear my amendment to create accountability and transparency in the environmental management efforts underway so that we can understand what is not working, and why. Without collecting, collating, and reporting data on an annual basis about what flows are released and what they achieve, we will never improve the efficacy of our water projects and will prolong the harmful drought impacts on our local communities.” While all three amendments were presented before the Rules Committee, only one was made in order. The Western Water and American Food Security Act will be heard on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives later this week. ###
07.07.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Last week, President Obama announced that the Department of Labor will propose extending overtime pay protections to nearly 5 million salaried American workers, including 420,000 in California. This proposal would increase the current overtime protection threshold, guaranteeing overtime pay to most salaried workers earning less than an estimated $50,440 per year. "For far too long, Americans have worked harder, but their wages have remained the same. A hard day’s work should lead to a fair day’s pay, and the President’s proposed rule will affirm that fundamental American principle,” said Rep. Jim Costa. “Millions of Americans work increasing long hours, spending time away from their families, without receiving the overtime pay they have earned. By increasing the wages of salaried employees in the San Joaquin Valley and throughout our nation, the health of our economy will improve and hard-working families will have the means to provide for their loved ones. Congress must now focus on passing a long-term transportation bill that will create more good-paying jobs, grow Americans’ paychecks, and strengthen hard-working families.” The salary threshold for overtime pay for American workers has been changed only twice in the last 40 years and now covers far fewer workers due to inflation. Currently, only workers making less than $23,660 per year, which is below the poverty threshold for a family of four, are guaranteed overtime pay. This proposal updates the overtime rules to ensure that millions more Americans who work over 40 hours per week will receive overtime pay. # # #
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Jim Costa joined Rep. David Valadao in introducing H.R. 2898, the Western Water and American Food Security Act of 2015. This legislation, which will make more water available to families, farmers, and communities, will modernize water policies in California and throughout the entire Western United States. Additionally, this bill legislation will provide direction to capture more water during the wet season and mechanisms to move forward with water storage projects that have been authorized for over a decade. “The Western Water and American Food Security Act of 2015, is a good faith effort to bring more water to our Valley, increase flexibility of water delivery and allow for increased water storage. This legislation, of which I am an original cosponsor, is a comprehensive, common sense approach that includes short and long-term solutions to update California’s broken water system,” said Rep. Costa. “The ongoing drought in California continues to have devastating effects on the Valley’s communities, families and economy and the Western Water and American Food Security Act is a much-needed step in bringing them relief. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to advance legislation that will update and modernize California’s water system.” ###
06.25.2015	“Today’s bipartisan passage of Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) provides necessary protections and resources for American workers who are displaced by trade. TAA will allow our economy to grow, while ensuring that hardworking Americans have the opportunity to succeed. Each year, TAA will provide $450 million worth of job training, community college education, relocation allowances and job search assistance, all while not cutting funding to any federal programs. Since its inception in 1974, more than 2.2 million trade-impacted American workers have benefited from TAA services. “We must acknowledge that we live in an economy in which global trade and negotiations, along with the protection of our nation’s workforce are crucial. By passing TAA Congress continues to strengthen tools proven to support our workers and make them competitive in the 21st century job pool. “As always, I remain committed to supporting job growth in our nation. As trade negotiations are finalized, I reserve the right to vote against either the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) or the Trans-Atlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) if I believe they jeopardize good-paying jobs in our Valley and in our nation.” ###
06.12.2015	“After months of careful consideration and meeting with opponents and proponents of the trade package, I voted to support Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) and Trade Promotion Authority (TPA). While I agreed with a number of concerns presented by those opposing the trade package, what I found lacking were their solutions to addressing those challenges. In today’s global economy, standing by idly as trade agreements are made without us, or starting the current negotiations from the beginning, as the President explained, are not viable options. “Let us remember why we are engaging in these trade negotiations. We live in a global economy and these trade agreements, if successful, will knock down trade and non-trade barriers that hurt American workers and businesses. If either the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) or the Trans-Atlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) are successfully agreed upon, I reserve the right to vote against either measure if I do not believe they support good-paying jobs in our Valley and in our nation. “It is estimated that 11.7 million jobs nationally were supported by the export of goods and services in 2014. Nearly 800,000 of those good-paying jobs were right here benefitting people in our state, and that number does not even include those supported by services exports. “Trade is the backbone of California and the San Joaquin Valley’s economy. Based on the latest statistics, California alone exported $165 billion in 2013 and $174 billion in goods in 2014; California’s agricultural exports were valued at $18.8 billion in 2012 and increased to $19.5 billion in 2013, with the 16th Congressional District accounting for almost one quarter of that total. By supporting TPA and TAA, I am positioning the Valley and its people to succeed. Passing TPA gives our President the strongest possible position at the negotiating table, allows him to move forward with his current trade discussions, and provides certainty to our trading partners. However, it is important to note that giving the President the authority to negotiate a deal does not automatically mean that I will support either or both of the final agreements. “The reality is that global trade shows no signs of slowing and will only increase in the years to come. For America to remain the top economy in the world, we must actively shape the rules for global engagement, not stand on the side lines. If we walk away, we leave China to take our seat at the table and none of the values America stands for will be reflected in the global trade regime. “Trade that displaces well-paid American workers and offers no recourse is not acceptable. Protecting American workers, helping our families, and supporting local job training programs must be a priority. We cannot leave displaced American workers without the possibility of job training, job counseling, and other services that could help them be competitive in the global workforce. That is why I fully support the President in refusing to enact TPA without the protections for workers stipulated in TAA. I will continue to fight for a bipartisan TAA and the lifeline it has provided for millions of workers. “I want to thank all of those individuals and organizations who were passionate in expressing their views on the trade package. I look forward to continuing to work with you on this issue and other matters affecting the people of our Valley. ###
06.12.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Jim Costa and Rep. David Valadao introduced the Dams Accountability, Maintenance, and Safety Act. Under current law, if a modification or repair of a dam is identified by the Bureau of Reclamation (Bureau), the Secretary is authorized to look only at corrective actions that will remedy the specific safety problem. This legislation would authorize the Secretary to evaluate other project benefits along with the safety modifications under the Safety of Dams process; allowing the Bureau to evaluate dam raises for additional storage, like at San Luis Reservoir, among other things. “In the midst of this historic drought, it should be clear to everyone that California is in dire need of more water storage, which is why I am proud to introduce, with Rep. Valadao, the Dam Accountability, Maintenance, and Safety Act. This bill will provide the Bureau of Reclamation an additional tool to update and modernize our nation’s federal dams when critical safety work is being performed, providing increased economies of scale and additional cost savings for the public. I have long stated that it is crucial that we expand the storage capacity of dams in California, and the tools brought to bear by this legislation can be used to increase the storage capacity of San Luis Reservoir and provide some much needed resiliency to Valley water supplies,” said Rep. Costa. “The additional authorities given to the Secretary under this bipartisan legislation will ensure that California is better equipped to combat future droughts,” continued Costa. “While we are still working to find short-term solutions to bring much-needed water to the Valley, this bill is critical if we are to develop long-term storage solutions to fix our broken water system.” Currently, the Bureau of Reclamation is responsible for maintaining more than 400 dams in the Western United States. Approximately 50 percent of America’s dams were built between 1900 and 1950. Due to their size and aging infrastructure, they are no longer able to keep up with the nation’s growing water demands. An expansion of San Luis Reservoir could increase storage capacity by between 130,000 acre-feet to 400,000 acre-feet, with increased annual yield between 43,000 acre-feet to 71,000 acre-feet. ###
06.10.2015	Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed Rep. Costa and Conaway’s bill, H.R. 2393, the Country of Origin Labeling (COOL) Amendments Act. This legislation, which passed on a strong bipartisan vote of 300 to 131, repeals mandatory COOL requirements for beef, pork, and chicken products, while leaving intact the requirement for all other covered commodities. Additionally, the COOL Act does not alter, in any way, current food safety inspection requirements. “Today’s passage of the COOL Amendments Act is a critical step towards ensuring that the United States is no longer burdened by a law that harms our economy and our nation’s beef, pork, and poultry producers. The World Trade Organization (WTO) has time and again determined that the country of origin labeling rule for beef, pork, and poultry is unlawful and repealing this law is the only way we can stop devastating trade retaliations,” said Rep. Jim Costa, Ranking Member of the House Agriculture Committee’s Livestock and Foreign Agriculture Subcommittee. “California exports billions of dollars of commodities and manufactured goods to Canada and Mexico, many of which are produced in the San Joaquin Valley. It has been estimated that the tariff retaliations will cost California’s economy more than $1 billion, inflicting a harsh blow to our local economy.” Last month, the World Trade Organization (WTO) rejected, for a final time, the United States’ appeal regarding COOL. As a result, numerous commodities, many of which are grown in California, face significant retaliation by Canada and Mexico. H.R. 2393 is a targeted response that will put the U.S. in compliance with its international trade obligations and stop trade retaliations by two of the nation’s top export partners. “The bottom line is that the U.S. cannot afford to face Canada and Mexico’s trade retaliations. This issue, as stated by the Secretary of Agriculture, requires a legislative fix, and the COOL Amendments Act is that fix,” said Costa. “I look forward to working with my colleagues in the Senate to continue moving this legislation forward and repeal COOL.” Earlier today, Congressman Costa spoke on the House Floor regarding the COOL Amendments Act. The link to his speech is: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IXHb-l0Jpbc ###
06.10.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Jim Costa released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2577, the FY 2016 Transportation-HUD Appropriations bill. This bill, which the Administration has threatened to veto, cuts critical investments in infrastructure and housing assistance. “Instead of investing in our future, the bill dramatically cuts key transportation and housing initiatives that are intended to rebuild a stronger, safer America and strengthen local Valley communities. By drastically reducing investments in job-creating fields critical to hard-working American families, such as rebuilding roads, bridges, and our rail systems, this legislation hampers successful economic growth in the San Joaquin Valley. We can no longer survive on the investments made by our past generations. “This bill also undermines access to safe and affordable housing at a time when Fresno, and its surrounding areas, are making great strides in reducing homelessness and housing our Veterans, elderly and vulnerable families. “Additionally, H.R. 2577 attempts to single-handedly derail the California High Speed Rail by requiring a Record of Decision on the entire project before construction on any segment can begin. This tactic is not only impractical and ineffective, but will cost the State of California millions in lost revenue and employment opportunities.” ###
06.04.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Jim Costa released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2578, the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2016. The bill includes an amendment to ensure that all factors, including predation by non-native predators, are addressed in recovery plans for endangered species impacting California's water system. “As we all know, the drought facing California is having a devastating effect on the San Joaquin Valley, and this bill could create more flexibility in the system allowing us to bring more water to the Valley. Our water system is unable to meet California's existing demands under the current regulatory constraints, which lessen the amount of water moved in wetter periods of time. This bill will ensure that as recovery plans for native endangered species are developed, all factors negatively impacting species recovery, including predation by non-native species, are also addressed. Bottom line, delta pumping isn't the only thing impacting species decline, and this bill ensures that other factors will be addressed in recovery plans.” ###
06.04.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Costa joined Congresswoman Jackie Speier and Congressman Patrick Meehan in introducing the bipartisan “Hold Accountable and Lend Transparency (HALT) Campus Sexual Violence Act.” This bill would strengthen prevention and enforcement efforts to combat campus sexual violence by increasing transparency and accountability. “We all have a role to play and a responsibility to work toward a future free from sexual assault and violence. Colleges and Universities have an opportunity to take the lead in reducing the prevalence of sexual assault in our society and especially on their own campuses,” said Rep. Costa. “The HALT Campus Sexual Violence Act will help ensure that college campuses throughout the nation are taking sexual assault crimes seriously and are taking the strongest possible stand against them.” Under federal law, students are entitled to a safe educational environment free of sexual harassment. But statistics show that 20 percent of young women and 6 percent of young men will be victims of attempted or actual sexual assault on campus. The HALT Campus Sexual Violence Act is the legislative approach to combatting campus sexual violence that garners a wide array of support from anti-violence advocacy groups. “In addition to the introduction of the HALT Campus Sexual Violence Act, the House appropriations bill passed yesterday provides essential funding to support victims of crime. I was extremely pleased that, as requested in a letter I sent to the U.S. House Committee on Appropriations, the cap on the Crime Victims Fund (Fund) was increased to $2.7 billion. This increase represents a historic investment in meeting the needs of crime victims for victims’ services and compensation. This funding is imperative for organizations throughout California’s 16th Congressional district including, the Marjoree Mason Center, Madera Community Action Partnership, and Merced’s Valley Crisis Center.” ###
05.27.2015	Fresno, CA – Rep. Jim Costa released the following statement upon the Fresno Regional Workforce Investment Board receiving a $192,300 environmental workforce development grant from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. “The Fresno Regional Workforce Investment Board (FRWIB) has been a shining light in the community by adding jobs to our region and training unemployed and underemployed residents for Fresno County’s workforce,” said Costa. “The 60 added jobs provided by this grant will undoubtedly boost our economy and will support continued efforts made by farmers and farm workers to improve best practices for pest control. The Valley is an economically diverse region, and as we face this historic drought, absent more rainfall and delivery of more water, job training programs and economic assistance are going to be vital bridges to assist in recovery.” “We are thankful to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency in recognizing the importance of agriculture as a leading economic sector in Fresno County. The grant awarded will fund much needed integrated pest management training empowering workers to use the right pest control method to achieve the desired result, and above all to do so safely,” stated Blake Konczal, Executive Director of the Fresno Regional Workforce Investment Board. Individuals who complete the environmental job training program will receive state-recognized certificates or licenses. Graduates will go into fields which include recycling, hazardous waste cleanup, wastewater treatment, and pest control. ###
05.21.2015	Washington, DC - Rep. Costa released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 2353, the Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2015. “While I am extremely disappointed that the Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2015 only provided a two-month funding extension, I could not risk jeopardizing the safety and well-being of our nation’s traveling public. “The priority must be developing a long-term funding solution that better connects people, goods, and services. We are living off of the investments of our parents and grandparents, and now it is our turn to bring U.S. infrastructure into the 21st century by passing a multi-year, multi-modal transportation bill. Whether it is expanding access to transit in Fresno, establishing safe walkways to school for students living in Dos Palos, or renovating Highway 99, there are dozens of necessary projects in California’s 16th district that rely on access to federal funding. The short-term funding bills currently used to run our government fail to meet the challenge of our nation’s crumbling roads and bridges. “It is high time that Congress moves forward with a long-term reauthorization of the Highway and Transportation Funding Act that will give our local Valley leaders the certainty they need to plan for their communities. In the next two months, I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to determine how best to improve our nation’s infrastructure in a fiscally responsible and sustainable way.” Earlier this year, Rep. Costa and the Blue Dog Coalition sent a letter urging Committee on Ways and Means leadership to explore long-term funding solutions for a comprehensive infrastructure package. ###
05.20.2015	Washington, DC – This morning, H.R. 2393, a bill introduced by Rep. Jim Costa, Rep. Conaway and 59 other Members of Congress to repeal mandatory Country of Origin Labeling (COOL) requirements for beef, pork, and chicken products, passed out of the House Agriculture Committee. Monday’s ruling by the World Trade Organization (WTO) to reject, for a final time, the United States’ appeal regarding COOL means that numerous commodities, many of which are grown in California, will face significant retaliation by Canada and Mexico. This includes top exports from the Central Valley such as cherries, wine, grapes, and tomatoes. H.R. 2393 is a targeted response that will provide stability, bring the U.S. back into compliance, and stop trade retaliations, while improving trade relationships with two of the nation’s top export partners. “California exports billions of dollars worth of commodities to Canada and Mexico, many of which are produced in the San Joaquin Valley. If Canada and Mexico move forward with tariff retaliations, and COOL is not repealed, we can expect to see significant losses in exports to those countries, which will harm our Valley’s economy and result in lost jobs,” said Rep. Jim Costa, Ranking Member of the House Agriculture Committee’s Livestock and Foreign Agriculture Subcommittee. “We have the data, studies, and the World Trade Organization’s experience to demonstrate that COOL is detrimental to our state and national economies, and hurts our nation’s beef, pork and chicken producers and packers. As such, I look forward to continuing to work, in a bipartisan manner, with Congress to move this legislation forward and repeal COOL.” Yesterday, Rep. Costa and his colleagues held a bipartisan press conference with representatives from industries that are targets of retaliation by Canada and Mexico. H.R. 2393 would amend the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 to repeal Country of Origin Labeling requirements with respect to beef, pork, and poultry, and for other purposes. ###
05.18.2015	Washington, DC – Rep. Jim Costa released the following statement after the World Trade Organization (WTO) announced its fourth and final decision to reject the United States’ appeal regarding Country-of-Origin-Labeling (COOL). “Today’s decision by the WTO to again rule against the United States further demonstrates that mandatory, government-run Country-of-Origin-Labeling (COOL) is a failed experiment. As a result of this ruling, the United States is now subject to harsh trade retaliations by Canada and Mexico that will threaten jobs, harm companies, and severely impact our local and national economies. California alone is estimated to lose hundreds of millions of dollars as a direct result of the tariffs that will be imposed. “COOL has not only increased costs to ranchers and processors in order comply with the regulations, but most importantly, is threating the trade relationship with our top export partners, Canada and Mexico. It is an ineffective law that must be repealed immediately before further damage is done.” ###
05.15.2015	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA) was joined by Vietnam veteran Rep. Paul Cook (R-CA) in reintroducing the Hmong Veterans’ Service Recognition Act. The legislation would extend burial benefits in national cemeteries to Hmong and Lao Americans who served beside U.S. Armed Forces during the Vietnam War. Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) has introduced similar bipartisan legislation in the Senate. “Hmong veterans risked their lives fighting side-by-side with American forces in Vietnam and have earned the right to rest as heroes beside their brothers in arms,” Costa said. “Granting them the honor of being laid to rest in our national cemeteries, like the San Joaquin Valley National Cemetery in Santa Nella, is long overdue and demonstrates our nation’s deep gratitude for their patriotic service to our country.” Rep. Cook said, “In Vietnam, I saw firsthand the sacrifices these brave men and women made for our country. We fought side by side to stop the spread of communism and it’s fitting that America honors their contributions.” Hmong men and women from Laos were trained and led by officers from the CIA’s Special Activities Division during the Vietnam War. Tens of thousands of these individuals performed direct missions against Communist forces and North Vietnamese supporters, saving countless American lives. Following the war, thousands of Hmong Veterans resettled across the United States and in the Valley. In 1975, President Ford signed legislation that granted them legal permanent resident status and in 2000, President Clinton signed the Hmong Veterans Naturalization Act, which allowed Hmong veterans and their families to become U.S. citizens. Currently burial benefits are available to veterans and members of the U.S. Armed Services, their spouses and dependents, Reserve Officers, Public Health Service Officers, Merchant Mariners from World War II, and the Philippine Armed Forces. This legislation would add veterans who were naturalized under the Hmong Veterans Naturalization Act to the list of individuals eligible for interment at a national cemetery. It is estimated that there are still 6,000 Hmong veterans living in the United States today. Additionally, this bill will not change eligibility for burial at Arlington National Cemetery. ###
05.01.2015	Washington, DC - Rep. Costa released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 2028, the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Bill. "As we in the San Joaquin Valley know first-hand, water is a top priority. This legislation provides funding for drought relief and infrastructure projects, accelerates timelines for vital water storage development projects that have languished for decades, and places limits on how much water the Bureau of Reclamation can divert from cities and farms, all of which protect and enhance California’s access to water supplies during the drought. “Additionally, this bill reflects several bipartisan priorities, such as supporting water reclamation projects and Corps of Engineers projects, while recognizing the realities of our current federal budget deficit. It also provides funding for a mix of energy research and the securing of our nuclear capabilities, ensuring our country's safety. “Our current fiscal state presents challenges and funding limitations, therefore it is imperative that Congress prioritize critical program and infrastructure investments so that there is continued funding given to the projects most beneficial to our nation.” ###
04.28.2015	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Jim Costa joined Congressman Doug LaMalfa to introduce H.R. 2041, the “Public Power Risk Management Act (PPRMA),” bipartisan legislation would provide stability in energy prices for consumers. This bill would remove barriers placed on municipal utilities that prevent them from taking actions to hedge against price volatility in the energy market and to protect consumers from a spike in utility fees. “No law is perfect, and Dodd-Frank, which provides vital consumer protections to ensure that another financial crisis doesn’t cripple the economy of the United States, is no exception. Our local utilities work diligently to provide their customers with a reliable source of energy at a stable price and should have maximum flexibility to do so in a fiscally responsible manner.” said Rep. Costa. “This bipartisan legislation will ensure that one tool used by local utilities to ensure that Valley families have stable energy prices will continue to remain available on a permanent basis.” “Americans deserve access to affordable, reliable energy and public utilities should have the ability to provide these services without facing unnecessary red tape. Millions of ratepayers in California, and across the country, rely on public power, and H.R. 2041 ensures that this problem is fixed permanently,” said Rep. LaMalfa. “We are very glad to see the PPRMA reintroduced and appreciate the Congressmen’s commitment to seeing this issue put to rest,” said Casey Hashimoto, General Manager for Turlock Irrigation District. ###
04.13.2015	“With the 100th anniversary of the Armenian Genocide upon us, I cannot express the extent of my gratitude for the Pope’s formal recognition of the devastating violence committed against the Armenian people. His dedication to defending those who have faced great injustice brings hope and inspiration to us all. “The Pope’s actions show that it is high time for the Armenian Genocide to be acknowledged worldwide. As such, I appreciate the Pope’s leadership and will continue to take an active role in urging Congress and the President to go on record recognizing this atrocity once and for all.” ###
03.27.2015	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Jim Costa was joined by Congressman Mike Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN), and 5 other Members of Congress in introducing the Community Economic Opportunity Act of 2015. The bipartisan legislation would reauthorize the Community Service Block Grant (CSBG) program which supports more than 1,000 non-profit Community Action Agencies tasked with serving economically disadvantaged neighborhoods. The CSBG was last reauthorized in 1998. “The Community Service Block Grant Act (CSBG) provides critical assistance to local efforts aimed at reducing poverty and expanding economic opportunity for all,” said Rep. Costa. “My district is home to a number of Community Action Agencies including the Merced County Community Action Agency, the Community Action Partnership of Madera County, and Central Valley Opportunity Center. Additionally, we have one of the largest Community Action Agencies in the nation, the Fresno Economic Opportunities Commission, which is celebrating 50 years of serving the people of our Valley. By increasing access to locally-needed services such as child care, job training, housing, and financial education, CSBG tackles poverty, empowers our communities and improves self-sufficiency.” “Today in Fresno County, the Community Service Block Grant (CSBG) is essential to the Fresno EOC response to the drought, for innovation, for providing educational, employment and training opportunities, for empowering residents, and for investing in the financing of new and emerging businesses," said Brian Angus, CEO of Fresno EOC. "CSBG is the funding that allows Merced County Community Action Agency to provide innovative approaches to addressing poverty in our community. Not a one size fits all approach, but one that specifically targets the needs in Merced County and leads to higher numbers of people lifting themselves out of poverty and into self-sufficiency," said Brenda Callahan-Johnson, Executive Director of Merced County Community Action Agency. "Congressman Costa understands the needs of the poor in Merced County and knows that we only succeed if we all work together towards solutions. CSBG funds make finding effective solutions to combating poverty possible." “CSBG funding provides a wealth of assistance to the programs and services offered through CAPMC in Madera County. The funding supports programs such as parenting classes, low-income energy assistance, and Community Needs Assessments to aid the low income population in becoming more self-sufficient. One such program provides the agency the capability to match HUD funding in order to shelter and provide much needed services to 15 chronically homeless women who would otherwise be out in the streets of Madera County,” said Mattie Mendez, Executive Director of Community Action Partnership of Madera County. “CVOC has operated the CSBG grant in Stanislaus, Merced and Madera counties for many years. With those grants we are able to assist low income persons with emergency services such as housing, utility bill assistance, clothing and food. We are also able to provide low income persons in our service area with vocational training, GED classes and ESL classes to better prepare them for jobs that will provide year round employment. Our CSBG grants help us provide valuable services to approximately 5,000 migrant and seasonal farm workers, and other low income persons per year,” said Ernie Flores, Executive Director of Central Valley Opportunity Center. Ninety percent of CSBG funds go directly to local communities to provide critical services such as child care, job training, housing, and financial education that improve self-sufficiency. The results of these programs have allowed local organizations to leverage nearly $2.30 in private capital from every dollar that the federal government invests in CSBG. ###
03.25.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa released the following statement in response to both the Republican and Democratic budgets proposed. “At a time when our national economy is finally beginning to stabilize it is critical that Congress move forward with a budget that is fiscally responsible while investing in our nation’s future. It is of no benefit to continue proposing budgets that are based solely on party lines and do not provide common sense, realistic solutions for the issues facing our nation. “The Republican budget proposals provide increased defense funding and accomplish this by adopting draconian cuts that will adversely affect our most vulnerable populations. Unfortunately, the Democratic alternative, while investing in our nation, fails to recognize the hard choices that need to be made to address our growing debt in a real way. “Ultimately, the budget that will most benefit our country is one that promotes fiscal responsibility and provides the resources for necessary programs. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to develop a budget that is financially sound and builds an even stronger middle class.” ###
03.25.2015	Washington, D.C.- Below is an excerpt of Congressman Jim Costa’s opening statement at the Livestock and Foreign Agriculture Subcommittee’s hearing on County-of-Origin-Labeling (COOL) that was held earlier today. “It does not surprise many in this room that I believe mandatory, government-run Country-of-Origin-Labeling (COOL) is a failed experiment. Unfortunately, this issue has persisted for several years with the same flawed arguments being used time and again. “COOL opponents argue that this rule increases production costs which are directly passed on to consumers. Supporters of COOL argue just the opposite. It is my sincere desire that today we are able to move beyond the same talking points to have a fair and relevant discussion. “As we know, the World Trade Organization (WTO) is set to release its decision on the United States’ appeal to the case brought by the Government of Canada in conjunction with the Government of Mexico. Should the WTO reject the United States’ appeal, we could face harsh retaliation efforts against products produced in California and across the country. “The Canadian Government has already published its list of commodities that will be subject to retaliatory measures and it is estimated that it will have an impact of well over one billion dollars. In a past dispute with Mexico, we saw the devastating effects that trade retaliations can have on not only the agricultural economy, but the national economy. Mexico imposed $2.6 billion in retaliatory tariffs on 99 U.S. agriculture and manufacturing products, costing tens of thousands of jobs and over $4 billion to the U.S. economy. This case could have greater impacts. “As such, I am pleased this hearing is happening as it gives us the opportunity to establish a record and hear from industry stakeholders. However, I do not believe this is the last time we will find ourselves discussing this issue as we are still waiting on the WTO to decide on the US’s appeal and the arbitration process to take place. “Many in Congress, myself included, want to see this problem rectified. I have long been fighting against what I believe to be a misguided government policy, and I will continue to work with my colleagues on resolving this issue.” ###
03.20.2015	Fresno, CA – Congressman Costa, who was instrumental in both drafting the language for the Supplemental Nutrition and Assistance Program (SNAP) Employment and Training Pilot Projects and including it in the 2014 Farm Bill received good news for his district. As a result of his tireless efforts, Fresno County Department of Social Services will receive $12.3 million as part of the SNAP Employment and Training Pilot Projects to build on the existing efforts of Fresno Bridge Academy. “The SNAP Employment and Training Pilot Project was inspired by a program started at the Fresno Bridge Academy to transition local residents off of food assistance. The program’s high rate of success has brought it national attention and resulted in additional funding to continue assisting Valley families in becoming self-sufficient. “The innovative manner in which Fresno Bridge Academy reduces families’ need for food assistance can, in large part, be attributed to Peter Weber. His pioneering spirit, leadership, and vision made Fresno Bridge Academy and its program a nation-wide example of how to empower individuals to achieve productive self-reliant lives. “It is also important to thank President Obama, Secretary of Agriculture, Tom Vilsack and Under Secretary Kevin Concannon for recognizing that the program developed at Fresno Bridge Academy not only has a successful local track record, but that it can be applied throughout the nation. Their support of the program means that, with proper funding, Americans who rely on food assistance can become independent.” The County of Fresno Department of Social Services will build on an existing program called the Fresno Bridge Academy to offer multiple career-driven services, including education, job training, support services, subsidized and unsubsidized employment, retention services, ongoing case management, and financial incentives for milestone achievements. The program is a multi-generational approach that includes adult development topics such as nutrition and health management, parenting skills, financial literacy, and services to ensure children are excelling in school. The grants will fund projects for three years. ###
03.20.2015	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Jim Costa released the following statement after California Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr., Senate President pro Tempore Kevin de León, Assembly Speaker Toni Atkins, and Republican Leaders Senator Bob Huff and Assemblymember Kristin Olsen announced legislation that would assist communities struggling to cope with the historic drought. The $1 billion package would expedite bond funding and help ensure that Californians have access to water. “Today’s announcement of a $1 billion emergency drought package by Governor Brown and the California Legislature was a welcomed piece of news in the San Joaquin Valley, which is ground zero for the harm caused by the current drought. This legislation will provide desperately needed funds for local drought relief efforts, assist in creating local and reliable water supplies for Californians, and improve our state’s water infrastructure. All of these are important patches for our fundamentally broken water system. However, this is like putting a band aid on a gaping head wound. What the Valley needs is water. “We cannot make it rain, but we can continue to work on legislation that will address the challenges we are facing and urge our colleagues to support our efforts. As such, I am calling on the President to follow in Governor Brown’s footsteps and assist California as it continues to face an increasingly catastrophic drought.” ###
03.10.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-CA) and Congressman Steve Womack (R-Ark.) announced the formation of a new, bipartisan Congressional Chicken Caucus in the House of Representatives. The caucus will serve as a formal group of members whose mission is to educate members of Congress and others about the history, contributions and issues of importance to U.S. chicken producers, pertaining to food safety, international trade, labor, animal welfare, immigration and environmental issues, among others. “The poultry industry plays a critical role in the economy of California’s 16th Congressional District and the greater San Joaquin Valley,” added Rep. Costa. “We are home to the largest poultry processor in the West and the 5th largest in the country, which provides nearly 5,000 district jobs. As such, I am honored to be Co-Chair of the Congressional Chicken Caucus. I look forward to working with my good friend Rep. Steve Womack in providing a platform on which issues pertaining to the poultry industry can be addressed.” “The chicken industry is vital to the economy of the Third District of Arkansas, which is why I am proud to co-chair the Congressional Chicken Caucus, alongside Representative Costa, with whom I share a longstanding bipartisan relationship,” said Rep. Womack. “We look forward to growing the caucus’ membership, working together to educate members, and advancing the issues that are important to the U.S. chicken industry.” Mike Brown, president of the National Chicken Council, noted, “I want to thank Representatives Womack and Costa for spearheading the continued development of the Congressional Chicken Caucus and working to grow its membership in the early stages of this 114th Congress. Under their leadership, this bipartisan caucus will continue to serve as a hub for members to discuss common issues of interest, host Capitol Hill briefings and amplify the voice of U.S. chicken producers.” U.S. chicken producers are responsible for more than 300,000 jobs - 280,000 directly and 25,000 family farmers - that produce products worth a wholesale value of $60 billion with major operations in more than 30 states. In 2014, U.S. chicken production was responsible for as much as $348.8 billion in total economic activity throughout the country, creating or supporting as many as 1,339,875 total jobs in chicken production and in supplier and ancillary industries. Although chicken farms and processing plants may not be located in every district, the industry’s induced economic impact can be felt in every sector of the U.S. economy, in every state and every congressional district. ###
03.03.2015	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congress focused on security, both of the United States and its ally in the Middle East, Israel. The day began with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu addressing a joint session of Congress and ended with the House of Representatives voting on a clean, yearlong appropriations bill to fully fund the Department of Homeland Security. “Prime Minister Netanyahu’s speech served to underscore and remind Congress of the importance of U.S.-Israel relations. The bond between our two countries is deeply rooted in our shared democratic values. Respect for human rights, freedom of speech, religion and the press are essential to any democracy. As such, it is vital that the United States continues to support Israel, our long-time friend and ally. “Whether it is threats by Iran or other terrorists around the world, we all know that we live in a very dangerous world. Therefore, I hope that the negotiations involving the Administration and other parties ensure that Iran does not obtain nuclear weapons. No deal is better than a bad deal that threatens the security of Israel, the Middle East, and the United States. “Our priority must be making the world a safer place for the United States and our allies. That is why today’s vote ensuring funding for the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is so important. Everyday DHS protects America from an international network of terrorists whose goal is to harm us.” ###
02.27.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Jim Costa issued the following statement after the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation announced that agricultural service contractors in the San Joaquin Valley served through the Central Valley Project (CVP), such as San Luis Delta Mendota Water Authority and Friant Water Authority, will receive zero percent of their contracted federal water for the second consecutive year. “Today’s announcement by the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation, while not unexpected, is another devastating blow to the farmers, the farmworkers and the communities of the San Joaquin Valley. In a year where rainfall in Northern California is normal for this time of year and storage in Shasta Reservoir is also near its historical average for this time of year, for Central Valley Project agriculture, for a second year in a row, to receive none of its contracted water is simply inexcusable. Today’s initial allocation only provides further evidence of how broken California’s water delivery system is for those who live and work south of the Delta and points to the need for Congress to intervene to provide direction to better balance the impacts of regulations. This four year drought and the inability to maximize the capture of the water in the system when it has been available have drastically stunted the Valley’s agriculture industry, and it seems this year will be no different. What has been devastating to this point will now become catastrophic. “At a time when every drop of water counts, to forgo opportunities that would optimize our scare water resources and bring some relief to the families of the Valley simply cannot be justified. As recently as last week, staff of the State Water Resources Control Board moved forward with its decision to modify the Temporary Urgency Change Petition and prohibit more balanced distribution of increased flows through the Delta, denying our Valley access to desperately needed water. “Our current water system is broken and will only be fixed when the parties involved come together and use all of the tools in our water tool box. Up to this point, our federal and state entities have come up short and it is the people of the San Joaquin Valley who will suffer.” ###
02.23.2015	Washington, D.C. –U.S. Congressman Jim Costa released the following statement after the Pacific Maritime Association (PMA) and the International Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU) announced a tentative agreement on a new five-year contract covering workers at all 29 West Coast ports. “The agreement reached by the PMA and ILWU, with the assistance of U.S. Secretary of Labor Tom Perez, is an important success for our nation and our Valley. Our ports, which are now fully operational, must focus on quickly eliminating any backlog so that our agricultural and West Coast economies can begin to recover. “As a leading exporter of agricultural goods, news of this agreement was especially welcomed in the San Joaquin Valley. Our businesses, farmers, farmworkers, and manufacturers, all of which were losing millions of dollars in spoiled products and downsizing their workforce, can finally operate with the certainty that further delays are not on the horizon. “The San Joaquin Valley is an integral part of California’s economy and I was proud to lead my colleagues in the House of Representatives in working to bring a swift end the dispute between the PMA and ILWU. I believe I reflect the sentiment of our Valley that this had gone on far too long.” Rep. Costa has been leading the charge in urging the PMA and ILWU to swiftly end their dispute. He not only introduced a House Resolution demanding a timely solution to the labor talks, but was joined by more than 80 Members of Congress in sending a letter to the PMA and ILWU calling upon them to put aside their differences and quickly resolve the contract negotiation. ###
02.11.2015	Congressman Costa was saddened to learn about the passing of basketball Hall of Fame coach Jerry Tarkanian. A graduate of Fresno State University, Coach Tarkanian never forgot his humble Armenian beginnings or the colleges and universities where he coached for 31 years. His incredible success as a collegiate basketball coach, with 729 victories, was clearly demonstrated throughout his career, from taking UNLV to win the national championship in 1990, leading Long Beach State to four straight NCAA tournament appearances, including the 1971 West Regional Final, and then returning to his alma mater, Fresno State, where he had 153 victories and six straight 20-win seasons. “After Coach Tarkanian came back to Fresno State, his alma mater, I had a happenstance meeting with basketball great, Magic Johnson, while in a gym in Southern California,” said Costa. “I introduced myself to Johnson and told him where I was from. His first questions to me were ‘How is the Red Wave? Are the people excited to have Coach Tarkanian at Fresno State?’ I told him that the community was excited and that as a graduate of the University, a successful coach, and an Armenian, Coach Tarkanian was a great source of pride for our Valley. Magic responded by telling me something I didn’t know: that Coach Tarkanian was known around inner city playgrounds in America as the coach of second chances. When talented young athletes who had gotten in trouble still wanted to pursue their dreams on the basketball court, Coach Tarkanian was willing to give many of them a second chance. Johnson went on to say that there was no doubt in his mind that Coach Tarkanian would do well during his tenure at Fresno State. He then told me that he had to go to a pickup game, but to “tell Jerry and the Red Wave that Magic said hi.” “Coach Tarkanian, thank you for being a friend to so many of us and more importantly, making a difference in the lives of many young men, to whom you gave a second chance.” ###
02.06.2015	Fresno, CA. - Rep. Jim Costa released the following statement after Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewell announced that the Department of Interior is providing $50 million in funds for drought relief projects throughout the West —including nearly $20 million for California’s Central Valley Project. “The current drought is causing irreparable harm to the San Joaquin Valley, devastating our families, communities, and our businesses. Fortunately, today we received some good news when the Department of the Interior announced that it would be providing nearly $20 million in drought relief funds to California’s Central Valley Project. These funds will help boost immediate efforts to improve water supplies by increasing advanced monitoring, providing the data to support real time operation of the projects and increase pumping when there is decreased likelihood of listed species being harmed. This could increase monitoring that would enable operators to ramp up pumping when the fish aren’t near the pumps, delivering vital water to communities in severe distress. Additionally, some of these funds will go to short and medium-term projects to diversify California’s water supply, reducing demands on Delta water, increasing conservation and creating more resiliency in our water system. “This is a small step forward, but it is imperative that the Administration commit to increasing operational flexibility and to bringing more reliable water supplies to our Valley. The Valley, which produces more than half of our nation’s fruits and vegetables, cannot continue being the agricultural economic engine of our state with inadequate and unreliable water supplies.” Specifically, the Central Valley Project will receive $5.37 million for Delta needs, including enhanced monitoring for endangered species to increase flexibility in water operations; $2.38 million for the Friant-Kern Canal Reverse Flow Pumping Project to increase resilience in the Friant Division; $3.65 million for Water and Power Operations to facilitate water transfers in the summer months; and $6 million for refuges, including acquisition, conveyance and diversification of water supplies. ###
02.04.2015	Washington, D.C. – Reps. Jim Costa (D-CA), Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Peter Welch (D-VT), and Steve Womack (R-AR)released the following statement today on the introduction of H.R. 704, the RFS Reform Act, in the U.S. House of Representatives: Congressman Jim Costa: “The current Renewable Fuel Standard is not only hurting American consumers, energy producers, livestock producers, food manufacturers, and retailers, but has surpassed a sustainable state. The Renewable Fuel Standard Reform Act provides common-sense, long overdue reform that will address many of the issues plaguing the RFS while boosting job creation, strengthening the health of our economy, and increasing the affordability of the food our families eat. The United States is going through an energy renaissance and this bill is an important step in our future energy success.” Congressman Bob Goodlatte: “The ethanol mandate is a true ‘kitchen table’ issue – this unworkable policy impacts every American family trying to make financial decisions.From food costs to wear and tear on the family car or lawnmower, the RFS means added costs and less money for other purchases. It certainly impacts the cost of doing business for many, but it’s the consumers who ultimately shoulder the costs of this broken policy. With the EPA’s continued failure to meet their deadlines, it’s clear that the majorly flawed RFS just isn’t working. We have a renewed opportunity this Congress to act on real reform of the RFS. Growing support from lawmakers in the House and Senate, as well as a diverse coalition of organizations, signals that there is momentum. The RFS Reform Act is a common sense solution to help curb some of the most harmful effects of this federal mandate.” Congressman Peter Welch: “The Renewable Fuel Standard is a well-intentioned flop. The corn-based ethanol mandate is driving up the cost of feed for struggling dairy farmers. It’s driving up the cost of food for working families. And it’s ruining the engines of boats, chainsaws and snowmobiles in Vermont and across the country. Our bipartisan coalition has made tremendous progress unwinding this failed policy. This bill will remove the remaining consumer subsidy of the ethanol industry, the mandated blending of ethanol into gasoline.” Congressman Steve Womack: “Not only has this misguided RFS failed to lower prices at the pump, but the artificial market for ethanol it created is having unintended and profound effects on consumers, energy producers, livestock producers, retailers, and our food supply. Congress must reform the RFS and provide Americans relief.” Background: The RFS Reform Act eliminates the corn-based ethanol requirement, caps the amount of ethanol that can be blended into conventional gasoline at 10 percent, and requires the EPA to set cellulosic biofuels levels at production levels. At the time of introduction, 34 cosponsors signed on in support. The RFS Reform Actis also supported by a diverse coalition of over 50 organizations. ###
01.30.2015	Washington, D.C.– Earlier this week, Rep. Jim Costa, Co-Chair of the Victims’ Rights Caucus, introduced House Resolution 61, the Supporting the Goals and Ideals of a National Stalking Awareness Month. “Stalking is a horrible crime that not only makes its victims fear for their safety, but in the most serious of cases, can end in death. As Co-Chair of the Victim’s Rights Caucus, I am committed to being the voice for those who are victimized,” said Rep. Costa. “House Resolution 61 supports the goals and ideals of National Stalking Awareness Month by bringing attention to both the issue of stalking and the resources available to stalking victims. We cannot stand by as 7.5 million people in the United States alone, are stalked annually.” “Stalking is a serious and long term crime that is too often overlooked. It can happen in person or through the internet. Whether it lasts for a few days, months or years, victims of stalking live in constant fear,” said Rep. Ted Poe, Co-Chair of the Victim’s Rights Caucus. “Stalkers are eerie individuals who sneak around and create a silent terror in their victims. The victim feels like someone is always watching them (and usually they are right). They are preyed upon, watched and followed, and in some cases this leads to other crimes like assault, kidnapping and even homicide. We must raise awareness of the dangers of stalking and improve the response of the criminal justice system.” House Resolution 61, theSupporting the Goals and Ideals of a National Stalking Awareness Month, recognizes that combatting stalking is a layered approach that requires law enforcement, institutions of higher learning, and community organizations, among others, to work together. As such, the resolution has three main focuses: applauding the efforts of the many stalking service providers, police, prosecutors, and organizations that promote awareness of stalking; encouraging policymakers, criminal justice officials, victim service agencies, and college campuses to increase awareness of the availability of services for stalking victims; and finally, urging national and community organizations, businesses and the media to promote awareness of the crime of stalking through National Stalking Awareness Month. ###
01.28.2015	Washington, D.C.– Rep. Jim Costa released the following statement after being elected to serve as the Ranking Member of the Livestock and Foreign Agriculture Subcommittee. “It is an honor to be elected as Ranking Member of the Livestock and Foreign Agriculture Subcommittee. Having served on the Livestock Subcommittee during the last two Congresses and as a proud Representative of California, the nation’s leading Agricultural state, I have intimate knowledge of the issues that fall under the Subcommittee’s Jurisdiction which includes all policies and markets relating to livestock, poultry, dairy and seafood. “In the 114th Congress, this Subcommittee will play a role in overseeing the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s implementation of the Agricultural Act of 2014. The bill includes two important dairy provisions, the new Margin Protection Program and, critical to California, language that allows California’s dairy producers to elect if they enter the Federal Milk Marketing Order. “Finally, the Subcommittee will provide guidance as the Administration continues to negotiate critical trade agreements such as the Trans-Pacific Partnership and the Trans-Atlantic Trade and Investment Partnership. These trade deals will help increase exports for the entire country and California which has exports that total $168 billion, of which agriculture accounts for $18.8 billion, and supports 802,000 jobs across the state. “As Ranking Member of the Livestock and Foreign Agriculture Subcommittee, I am fully prepared to face any challenges presented and look forward to working with my colleagues in a bipartisan manner to advance and protect our country’s agricultural interests.” ####
01.28.2015	Washington, D.C.– Rep. Jim Costa released the following statement after H.R. 351, the LNG Permitting Certainty and Transparency Act passed the House floor. The bipartisan legislation would expedite the approval process for liquefied natural gas (LNG) export permits. “Today’s bipartisan vote to expedite the approval process for liquefied natural gas (LNG) export applications by the Department of Energy will ensure that the United States can produce the quantities of natural gas necessary to meet our growing domestic needs and export to the global marketplace. “This legislation is an economic catalyst for the United States; it will provide for increased trade revenue, additional investment in our infrastructure and will create good paying, middle class jobs here at home. Additionally, the geopolitical impacts of this bill will be positive and far-reaching. By increasing our exports of liquefied natural gas, we will provide greater energy security to our allies and provide a counterbalance to countries that use their natural gas supplies to politically manipulate other nations. Finally, this legislation will significantly benefit our environment by reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Natural gas has been instrumental in helping California achieve AB 32 greenhouse gas emission standards and increasing the global use of natural gas in lieu of more carbon intensive fuel sources will be instrumental to our efforts as we combat global climate change. I’d like to applaud Secretary Moniz and the staff at the Department of Energy for their attention and hard work towards clearing the backlog of applications for LNG exports. This bill provides them additional tools to assist them in their efforts. “The LNG Permitting Certainty and Transparency Act is a positive step toward using our country’s energy resources in an effective, safe and globally responsible manner.” ####
01.20.2015	Washington, D.C. - Rep. Jim Costa released the following statement in response to President Obama’s 7th State of the Union Address. “Today, the President focused on uniting our nation, promoting our shared values, and ultimately, moving our country forward. Some progress has been made over the years and now, more than ever, Congress and the Administration must come together to deal with the very real challenges facing America. The reality of the last six years is that compromise and common ground have been difficult to achieve and have sometimes seemed to be impossible. “The President outlined a number of proposals that will expand economic opportunity for the middle class. Providing affordable higher education, increasing access to high-speed internet for rural communities, and engaging in smart trade agreements will result in direct and far-reaching benefits to the San Joaquin Valley and to America’s economy. I am pleased that the President is proposing to reform our complex tax code, which is long overdue and will undoubtedly require compromise. I look forward to working with the President and my colleagues in the House and Senate on additional issues of common ground including enhancing our cybersecurity and investing in our nation’s infrastructure. “Unfortunately, the President failed to discuss the issue most important to the economic stability of our Valley, water. Flawed and incomplete scientific studies and inflexible federal regulations that guide the operations of our water pumps have devastated California’s agricultural industry. Our Valley and our state need a reliable supply of water to spur job creation, boost the economy, and protect hard-working families. I remain committed to fighting for our Valley’s water and urge my Congressional colleagues to move quickly to pass bipartisan, bicameral legislation to fix our broken water system and capture any surplus rain that falls over California. “As our country moves forward, we must remember that the bonds which unite us as Americans are far stronger than our disagreements. As we have seen, divisive politics does nothing to ensure the success of our great nation. The American public wants Congress and the Administration to find common ground and enact policies that put us on a path to success.” ####
01.16.2015	Fresno, CA — Today, Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) announced that the Merced County Office of Education has been awarded a $1,090,186 Early Head Start-Child Care Partnership grant. The federal grant will help create a new Early Head Start center at Planada Elementary School. “This Partnership grant will provide 48 infants, toddlers and two year olds and 16 young children with a quality early learning opportunity,” said Rep. Costa.“Furthermore, I am proud to announce that this grant will have an estimated economic impact of about $4.3 million to Merced County. This is a win-win for our children and our economy.” “I am very excited about the positive impact this grant will have on Merced County families and children,” said Dr. Steven E. Gomes, Merced County Superintendent of Schools. “The grant allows us to help families prepare children for their K-12 education, which will result in an increase in student academic achievement.” “MCOE is fortunate to have been awarded the Early Head Start – Child Care Partnership grant and the Early Education Department looks forward to beginning this new work with local family child care providers and Planada Elementary School; thereby increasing the availability of high quality infant and toddler care in Merced County,” said Christie Hendricks, Assistant Superintendent of Early Education at MCOE. “We are honored to partner with MCOE to provide the Planada Learning Community with access to high quality early childhood education,” said Jose González, Superintendent of Planada Elementary School District. “A child's success in school and in society is dependent on the early development of a child’s key academic, social, and cognitive skills to fully maximize their academic potential. We look forward to providing these critical building blocks and improving the educational opportunities of our future students.” ####
01.14.2015	WASHINGTON, DC –Rep. Costa issued the following statement after the House passed H.R. 240, the Homeland Security Appropriations Act, which included five amendments that would undermine the Administration’s immigration priorities, hurt our nation’s economy, and put the safety of all American families at risk. “Defending our country and protecting fellow Americans is of the utmost importance. However, I could not in good conscious support a bill that was brought to the House floor simply to play partisan politics. This bill holds the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) ransom at a challenging and dangerous time at home and abroad. The recent events in Paris show that terrorism remains a critical international and domestic threat yet; my Republican colleagues seem content with putting our national security at risk by defunding Homeland Security. “As a stipulation for funding DHS, Republicans insist on dismantling the Administration’s immigration priorities, but they have yet to offer an alternative solution to our broken immigration system. In the San Joaquin Valley, which I represent, this bill will have significant impacts on farm workers, farmers and farming communities. Now more than ever Congress should be focusing on protecting our families and finding a permanent solution to our immigration system. “Putting Americans at risk, because of partisan politics, is just plain irresponsible.” ###
01.13.2015	Washington, DC— Congressman Jim Costa (Fresno-D) released the following statement after the Supreme Court declined to consider an appeal by Valley water agencies and growers, thereby allowing a lower court’s ruling regarding the federal rules protecting the Delta smeltto stand. “Yesterday, the U.S. Supreme Court prioritized the Delta smelt over the welfare of hard working Americans in the San Joaquin Valley and across California. The Supreme Court’s refusal to take up this case will have devastating impacts on the individuals who live in these farm communities. The livelihoods of farmers, farm workers, and their families depend on a reliable water supply. The individuals being affected are the hardest working people you will ever meet, working tirelessly to put food on our nations’ dinner tables. “By failing to hear this case, the Court has made a decision to continue to limit the already scarce water supply to the San Joaquin Valley and cause further damage to California’s agricultural industry. This decision ensures that the pumping restrictions in the flawed delta smelt biological opinion, criticized by the National Academy of Sciences, will continue toguide operations and undermine the scientific integrity required of management decisions under the Endangered Species Act. It is ridiculous to expect the Valley, which produces more than half of our nation’s fruits and vegetables, to continue being the agricultural economic engine of our state with inadequate water supplies. “The San Joaquin Valley and its people have suffered far too long. Yesterday’s decision by the Supreme Court serves to further point out the need for Congress to act. Our current water system is broken and it is high time that all facts, including the entire body of scientific evidence, be used to make smart, viable water decisions for our State and our Valley.” ###
01.09.2015	Washington, DC — Congressman Jim Costa (Fresno-D) released the following statement after Congress voted to move forward with construction of Keystone XL Pipeline. “Today’s vote to proceed with the construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline provides the United States with the energy tools necessary to increase national energy security and reduce the amount of fossil fuel imported into our country. Through the Keystone XL Pipeline, we will be better equipped to access safe and reliable sources of energy, improve the health of our economy, and balance our concerns for the environment, all while achieving greater energy independence. “The Keystone XL Pipeline creates a viable path for the United States to increase energy production and create important jobs. Construction of the pipeline has been put off for far too long, and I urge the President to reconsider his stance on the project and support the bipartisan legislation. This pipeline provides safe access to oil, which bolsters our national security by stimulating our economy and reducing our dependence on countries that are not friendly to us.” ###
01.08.2015	Washington, DC — Congressman Jim Costa (Fresno-D) released the following statement after the Pentagon announced that efforts to reduce the mission at Lajes Field would continue. “Today’s announcement that Lajes Field, one of America’s oldest foreign bases, will face further force reduction at the recommendation of the Air Force is extremely disappointing. This decision, in my opinion, does not reflect proper evaluation of a number of issues, including the geo-political climate that we are facing in the Middle East or that terrorism, as we witnessed yesterday, is a constant threat regardless of where one lives. Additionally, the environmental costs of a possible base closure have yet to be assessed. I and my fellow colleagues in the Portuguese Caucus will continue our efforts to keep the base operating at its current level and will do everything possible to continue to strengthen the relationship between the United States and Portugal, our longtime ally and friend.” ###
12.19.2014	FRESNO, CA- Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) announced that the Fresno Housing Authority has been awarded $121,319 and the County of Merced Housing Authority has been awarded $79,981 to provide case management and rental assistance to homeless veterans. The Housing and Urban Development-Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) program is jointly operated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Since 2008, the HUD-VASH program has served nearly 75,000 veterans nationwide. “Our veterans have honored our nation through their service to our country’s armed forces, putting the needs of our nation above their own. We must ensure that they have a place to call their own and the tools necessary to lead productive lives,” said Costa. “The funds awarded to the Housing Authorities of Fresno and Merced Counties will allow them to continue their efforts to end homelessness among Valley veterans.” “The funding provided through the HUD-VASH Program to the agency will help homeless veterans find permanent supportive housing,” said County of Merced Housing Authority Executive Director Rennise Ferrario. “Since 2012, we have been able to serve more than 25 homeless veterans through the HUD-VASH program locally. The current award will allow us to provide an additional 15 homeless veterans with housing assistance. The funding provides a critical resource in addressing homelessness among veterans in our community. We all have a responsibility to ensure that after serving our county and returning home, that all of our veterans have housing and a place they can call home. We owe it to them.” Fresno Housing Authority Executive Director and CEO Preston Prince added, “These important federal funds enable Fresno Housing to collaborate in community-wide efforts which focus on providing permanent supportive housing for veterans who have honorably served our country and are now experiencing homelessness. Fresno Housing, with the Department of Veterans Affairs, follows the Housing First strategy, in which homeless individuals are housed and then provided services to meet the conditions in their lives that led to their homelessness.” Through the HUD-VASH program, homeless veterans receiving services through the VA can be referred to local housing authorities to obtain VASH vouchers for rental assistance. By combining case management from the VA and housing assistance, the program aims to give longtime homeless veterans the support needed to obtain and maintain permanent housing. Locally, Fresno Housing Authority partners with the Fresno Veterans Affairs Medical Center to provide support to eligible veterans with the help of HUD-VASH funding. ###
12.18.2014	Washington, DC —Congressmen Jim Costa (D-CA) and Ted Poe (R-TX), along with U.S. Senators Pat Toomey (R-PA) and Chuck Schumer (D-NY) issued the following statement regarding enactment of a provision to increase disbursals from the Crime Victims Fund: “We are pleased that Tuesday night the president signed into law a requirement that a larger share of already-available dollars go to crime victims. The Crime Victims Fund receives no taxpayer dollars; it is funded by criminal fines and penalties assessed in federal court. For over a decade, Congress has unfortunately capped the total amount of dollars that can be allocated to assist victims of child abuse, sexual assault, domestic violence, and other crimes. “This bipartisan measure represents a step in the right direction. Next Congress, we will continue to fight for crime victims by introducing a bipartisan, permanent fix that will increase the amount of money allocated to serve crime victims each year.” ###
12.09.2014	Washington, DC — Congressman Jim Costa (Fresno-D) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 5781, the California Emergency Drought Relief Act of 2014, of which he is an original cosponsor. “Today’s passage of H.R. 5781 is another attempt to provide some relief to the drought-ravaged San Joaquin Valley. Our farmworkers, their families and our farming communities have suffered far too long because of our broken water system. This short-term legislation would provide increased flexibility to bring more water to the Valley while preserving discretion to prevent additional harm to endangered species. “As a third generation family farmer, I know the effects of this drought, and I will not stop working to bring more water to our Valley. This isn’t some esoteric argument about environmental precedent; people’s lives and livelihoods are at stake. The additional flexibility to increase pumping to capture more water during storms contained within H.R. 5781 is crucial for California’s recovery from this devastating drought. I urge the Senate to move this legislation before the end of the Congressional session so that Californians do not continue to suffer. By every measure, this is a crisis, and that crisis demands action.” ###
12.08.2014	Washington, DC — Today, Congressman Jim Costa (Fresno-D) spoke on the House Floor, stressing the importance of passing H.R. 5781, the California Emergency Drought Relief Act of 2014. Below is an excerpt from his speech. “Thank you for the opportunity to speak on H.R. 5781, the California Emergency Drought Relief Act. “H.R. 5781 is a bill that, for the next 18 months, will allow for increased flexibility in the movement of water when there is water to be moved. It does so responsibly by preserving the Secretaries’ discretion to reduce pumping to prevent additional harm to endangered species. “[Under current law,] urban water users in the Bay Area and Southern California will get water, the fish will get water, but my folks on the east and west side of the San Joaquin Valley will get zero water without some operational flexibility. This continues the devastating impact on farmworkers, their families, farmers and the farming communities of the Valley. “This is not some esoteric discussion about precedent, people’s lives and livelihoods are at stake. Any way that the effects of the drought are looked at, it is a crisis. This crisis demands action. “I urge the support of my colleagues for this legislation that will help Central California get by during the effects of this devastating drought.” ###
12.05.2014	Washington, DC — Congressman Jim Costa (CA-D) released the following statement after voting against H.R. 5759, an anti-immigration bill introduced by Rep. Ted Yoho (R-FL). “This bill would overturn the President’s Executive Action which is intended to help fix our broken immigration system. It is estimated that some 4 million people who are undocumented, many of whom are living in our Valley, would benefit from the President’s plan. I strongly oppose this bill and voted no. “This is an irresponsible and damaging piece of legislation that does nothing to fix our broken immigration system. It tears families apart by not allowing us prioritize the removal of felons instead of families and fails to address comprehensive immigration reform. “Sadly, the Republican controlled House passed this legislation, notwithstanding my opposition.” ###
12.04.2014	Washington, DC — Congressman Jim Costa (Fresno-D) supported H.R. 5771, the Tax Increase Prevention Act of 2014, which would extend a number of tax relief provisions that had previously expired. These extensions would prevent tax increases for millions of families and businesses for the 2014 tax year. “These tax extenders will provide some certainty that families and businesses will not be unfairly burdened by late changes in tax policy for the 2014 tax year,” said Rep. Costa. “While this legislation is only a temporary solution, I am pleased that there are a number of tax provisions included in the bill that will directly benefit the San Joaquin Valley.” Some of the provisions in H.R. 5771 will allow Valley homeowners facing foreclosure tax exemptions on the balance of their loan debt, and allow teachers to deduct certain school expenses, thereby ensuring their classrooms are properly equipped. In addition, the Valley’s business and agricultural communities will benefit from the extension of bonus depreciation and increased expensing limitations. “It is unfortunate that we were not able to achieve comprehensive tax reform in this Congress and the yearly changes in tax provisions show the need for overall reform,” continued Costa. “I look forward to working with my colleagues in the next Congress to craft a robust tax reform package that will allow our economy to grow and provide certainty in planning for the families and businesses in the Valley.”
12.03.2014	Fresno, CA — Congressman Jim Costa (Fresno-D) released the following statement after it was announced that negotiations on water legislation would be postponed until 2015. “Passing legislation that allows water to effectively move throughout our Valley remains a top priority. I am committed to reaching a deal prior to the year’s end and will continue to explore any and all options available. As this process moves forward, I will continue to work, in a bipartisan manner, with my colleagues in the House to advance water legislation that benefits our Valley for this year, next year and until we fix our broken water system.” ###
12.03.2014	Washington, DC — Congressman Jim Costa (Fresno-D) released the following statement after H.R. 5781, the California Emergency Drought Relief Act of 2014, of which he is an original cosponsor, was introduced today. “This bipartisan legislation offers a common-sense solution to a long-term problem. The Valley has suffered far too long because of our broken water system. This bill will allow us to take advantage of increased flows through the delta and provide much-needed water to our Valley’s families and farms. California’s water needs must be addressed, and this legislation provides us with one more tool to bring relief to the San Joaquin Valley.” ###
10.22.2014	Fresno, CA – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA) announced $50,938 in funding assistance for the California National Hmong American Farmers, Inc. The funding, which comes from the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), will provide interpretation services to Southeast Asian farmers throughout the Central Valley. The funds were made available through the Rural Business Enterprise Grant (RBEG) program. “This announcement is good news for Hmong farmers throughout the Valley,” said Rep. Costa. “For generations, immigrant farmers have come to our Valley to make their mark and become established. The Southeast Asian farmers are repeating this proven path and making significant contributions to our Valley’s agricultural economy. I am pleased that the USDA recognizes the importance of supporting Hmong farmersandensuring that they have the necessary skills and training to be successfuland create more jobs.” “The National Hmong American Farmers, Inc. is very happy to be awarded this grant to continue the work to assist Hmong/AAPI and other small producers, farmers and ranchers in the Central Valley,” said Executive Director, Chukou Thao. “We look forward to working with Congressman Jim Costa and the USDA-Rural Development and other USDA offices to help small farmers and ranchers achieve the American dream.” The Rural Business Enterprise Grant (RBEG) program promotes and supports small businesses and transportation projects in rural areas. The RBEG awards are intended to create jobs and retain existing jobs by providing training and technical assistance to rural businesses. ###
10.21.2014	Fresno – Today,Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) announced that the City of Chowchilla has been awarded $1,000,000 by the Department of Housing and Community Development to further economic, community and housing advancements being made throughout the city. The funds were made available through the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program. “Investing in our communities will ensure the Valley’s success,” said Rep. Costa. “The funding provided by the Community Development Block Grant program will help improve Chowchilla’s economy as the city continues its efforts to create quality jobs and affordable housing for our Valley residents.” “The Chowchilla City Council truly appreciates the award of this funding to our city,” said Mayor Richard Walker. “The Block Grant Program funds will help to further revitalize our neighborhoods to create livable home environments for our residents who simply need a hand up to make necessary and beneficial improvements to their homes. Plus, if we can help some folks achieve the dream of homeownership through this program we are confident the Block Grant monies will go a long ways to help strengthen families and improve the overall Chowchilla community,” concluded Mayor Walker. The Community Development Block Grant program enables states and local governments to undertake a wide variety of activities intended to create suitable living environments, provide affordable housing, and create economic opportunities. Since its inception in 1974, the CDBG program has improved the lives of millions of Americans by addressing the development needs of communities across our Nation. This program is an example of bringing our hard earned tax dollars we send to Washington back home. Additional information about the Community Development Block Grant can be found online at https://www.hcd.ca.gov/fa/cdbg/. ###
10.21.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representatives Jim Costa (D-CA) and Rick Crawford (R-AR), Ranking Member and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Livestock, Rural Development, and Credit respectively, issued the following statement regarding the World Trade Organization (WTO) ruling against the United States and its mandatory Country of Origin Labeling (COOL) requirements set forth by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA): “Today’s ruling by the WTO presents an opportunity for policy makers to work alongside industry representatives, the Office of the United States Trade Representative(USTR), and the USDA, to amend the COOL statute so that it will be in compliance with our international obligations. This good faith effort will create more stability within the market, restore relationships with some of our most significant trading partners and prevent possible trade retaliations from Canada and Mexico. We stand ready to begin this work as soon as possible and urge the USTR and USDA to join us along with industry officials in this effort.” The ruling ends a months-long period of speculation as to how the World Trade Organization would rule with regard to the COOL requirements. Industry officials comprised of representatives from the packing and processors of beef, pork, lamb, veal, and turkey called on leaders from the USTR and USDA to sit down with lawmakers and industry officials to amend the COOL statute so that it would bring the United States into trade compliance with international trading partners and generate greater market stability. Earlier this year, Congressmen Costa sand Crawford were joined by 110 Members of Congress in sending a letter to Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack and U.S. Trade Representative Ambassador Michael Froman requesting that, should the WTO rule against the United States, as was just done, the Secretary of Agriculture rescind the final rule while Congress works to permanently resolve the issue. ###
10.17.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) and Dr. Raul Ruiz (D-Palm Desert) led 24 members of the California Delegation in a letter to the California Hospital Association President and CEO, C. Duane Dauner, and the California Association of Public Hospitals and Health Systems President and CEO, Erica Murray, to help ensure that hospitals across California are taking all appropriate measures to train and prepare their staff to screen, diagnose, and treat potential Ebola patients. In the letter, the lawmakers wrote, “This week two health care professionals developed the first cases of Ebola contracted on United States soil, despite protections in place for health care workers…It is [now] clear that the precautions taken to protect health care workers from Ebola must be re-examined. All appropriate steps must be taken to ensure that these dangerous lapses do not happen again.” Representatives expressed concerns including, but not limited to, ensuring hospitals’ are preparing health care professionals with the latest standards of care and protocols to contain the virus and treat potential patients. “It is essential that our hospitals take every step to ensure that we can treat possible Ebola patients without unnecessarily jeopardizing the well-being of our healthcare professionals,” said Rep. Costa. “Communication among treatment centers, thorough training and complete preparation are key if we are to successfully end the Ebola outbreak.” “The Children's Hospital Central California has screening processes in place at all our entrances to immediately identify anyone at risk for Ebola. We have a designated room in the Emergency Department for immediate evaluation and a designated intensive care room if a patient needs inpatient care,” said Dr. Karen Dahl, VP Quality and Patient Safety at Children's Hospital Central California. “We have a long history of working with the public health system to initiate contact tracing of exposed persons in the community.” “I am very confident that we will be able to detect and manage any patient with Ebola. The Health Department stands ready to do contact tracing and monitoring of any contacts that might be exposed,” said Dr. Ken Bird, Interim Fresno County Health Officer. “We must remember to get our flu shots. In the United States, more people will die from the influenza virus than the Ebola virus.” “As an emergency medicine physician and as an expert in humanitarian disaster relief, I know how critical it is for our hospitals to be fully prepared to treat and contain potential Ebola patients,” said Dr. Ruiz. “Ensuring our health care professionals here in the Coachella Valley and across California are educated on the latest containment and treatment protocol is critical to preventing the spread of this virus and effectively treating those infected. With the proper preparations I am confident the U.S. health care system will fully contain any instances of Ebola infection.” The lawmakers went on to say, “It is critical that…every hospital is taking action to ensure its staff is fully prepared…We are confident that the U.S. health system can and will respond appropriately to contain Ebola as long as providers are properly prepared to do so.” Members of the California Congressional delegation who joined to send the letter to the California Hospital Association and the California Association of Public Hospitals and Health Systems are; Dr. Raul Ruiz (CA-36); Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16); Rep. Ami Bera (CA-7); Rep. Jared Huffman (CA-2); Rep. Janice Hahn (CA-44); Rep. Karen Bass (CA-37); Rep. Julia Brownley (CA-26); Rep. Tony Cardenas (CA-29); Judy Chu (CA-27); Rep. Sam Farr (CA-20); Rep. John Garamendi (CA-3); Rep. Mike Honda (CA-17); Rep. Barbara Lee (CA-13); Rep. Zoe Lofgren (CA-19); Rep. Alan Lowenthal (CA-47); Rep. Gloria Negrete McLeod (CA-35); Rep. Scott Peters (CA-52); Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA- 40); Rep. Linda Sanchez (CA-38); Rep. Loretta Sanchez (CA-46); Rep. Adam Schiff (CA-28); Rep. Brad Sherman (CA-30); Rep. Eric Swalwell (CA-15); Rep. Mark Takano (CA-41); Rep. Juan Vargas (CA-51); Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-43). ###
10.06.2014	Washington, DC – Today, Co-Chairs of the Victims’ Rights Caucus, Representatives Jim Costa (D-CA) and Ted Poe (R-TX), along with Representatives Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), and Vicky Hartzler (R-MO), led a bipartisan effort to urge the major U.S. sports leagues to review and strengthen their policies regarding domestic violence, sexual assault, and child abuse. The Representatives were joined by 53 other Members of Congress in sending lettersto the “Big Five” sports leagues: the National Football League, Major League Baseball, National Basketball Association, National Hockey League, and Major League Soccer.The letters come in the wake of a number of allegations against professional athletes committing acts of violence and abuse against women and children. "As a society, we have a responsibility to work toward a future free from violence against women and children,” said Rep. Costa. “Our nation's professional sports leagues have the opportunity to use their platform to help lead this effort. I am hopeful that the leagues will work with our nation’s top victim advocates and take the strongest possible stand against these serious crimes.” In part, the Members wrote, “We urge you in the strongest possible terms to use your profound platform to move our society toward a future where violence against women and children is not acceptable. By ensuring that the leagues policies and practices take the strongest possible stand against these crimes, everyone in America will understand that no one who commits violence against women and children can get away with it." “Professional sports leagues have a responsibility that goes beyond ticket sales and royalties. Our society, for better or worse, idolizes its athletes. While domestic violence was once seen as a “family issue,” we’ve made some progress as a society,” said Rep. Poe. “Unfortunately, as recent incidents show, we still have a long way to go. Professional sports leagues need to put policies in place that send a strong message: those who commit violence against women will not get away with it.” “Domestic violence, sexual assault, and child abuse are serious issues and they deserve thorough scrutiny and serious discussion. Pro sports leagues are in a unique position to address issues like these, as they have the means to influence a wide range and great number of people,” stated Rep. Hartzler. “Violent crimes of any nature are tragic and they must stop.” “Our nation’s professional sports leagues can and should work proactively to prevent domestic violence, sexual assault and child abuse,” said Rep. Maloney. “This effort should extend beyond athletes and into the broader community. Violence against women and children can never be tolerated and sports leagues can be valuable players in sending that message.” ###
10.06.2014	Merced, CA – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Merced) and Merced City Councilman Josh Pedrozo hailed a decision by the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) to maintain Essential Air Service at the Merced Regional Airport. Rep. Costa, along with other local officials, led the effort to save Essential Air Service when the federal transportation agency threatened to end the program in Merced earlier this year. “After several months of hard work, I am thrilled that Essential Air Service will continue at the Merced Regional Airport. Today's decision will ensure the airport will continue to be an important economic engine for the region," said Rep. Costa. "I am grateful for DOT Secretary Anthony Foxx's commitment to seeing Merced's transportation network thrive over the coming years." “We are delighted and thankful for Congressman Costa's efforts in helping Merced gain approval from the Department of Transportation granting Merced Regional Airport the waiver to maintain essential air service,” said Councilman Pedrozo. “This will give the business community, the University community, and our residents better and more frequent opportunities to get to Merced. It will also allow those traveling from Merced to connect to larger airports without having to leave the community.” The Essential Air Service program was established to ensure smaller communities continued receiving adequate and affordable air transportation options following the airline deregulation of the 1970s. Merced Regional Airport offers competitively priced flights to Los Angeles thanks to its participation in the Essential Air Service program. ###
09.18.2014	Fresno, CA— Congressman Jim Costa (Fresno-D) released the following statement after the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) approved a rule that would exempt producers, utility companies, and other non-financial entities from being required to register as swap dealers when they enter into energy contracts with government-owned utilities. The rule, in many ways, reflects the intent of bipartisan H.R. 1038, the Public Power Risk Management Act of 2013, which was co-sponsored by Rep. Jim Costa and introduced in March of 2013. “Today’s CFTC ruling is a commonsense approach to addressing a damaging and unintended regulatory issue of Dodd-Frank,” said Rep. Jim Costa. “This approved ruling will help ensure that public power utilities have the ability to provide Americans with electricity and natural gas at reasonable and consistent rates.” “However, it is still imperative the Congress move forward and pass H.R. 1038, the Public Power Risk Management Act, as it will ensure that this regulatory change, which benefits the American people, will not be rescinded in the future.” ###
09.17.2014	Fresno, CA — Congressman Jim Costa (Fresno-D) released the following statement after the Bureau of Reclamation released the Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) for the Upper San Joaquin River Basin Storage Investigation. The DEIS describes possible benefits and impacts of increasing water storage through a proposed dam and reservoir about 25 miles northeast of Fresno in California’s Central Valley. Increasing water storage, and thereby water supply reliability, is a key part of fixing our broken water system,” said Rep. Jim Costa.“The proposed alternatives in the DEIS are a positive step towards developing a plan that not only solves today’s water issues, but also anticipates and plans for future shortages.” The proposed dam and reservoir would be 665 feet high with a total capacity of 1.33 million acre-feet, adding 1.26 million acre-feet to the existing storage. The projects include a series of interconnected programs aimed at providing comprehensive solutions to the problems of water supply, reliability and quality. “Clearly, the details on how to make this project financially feasible must still be studied,” said Rep. Costa. “As the DEIS moves forward in the vetting process, I encourage the community to participate in the public comment period.” A public hearing on the Draft EIS will be held in Fresno on Thursday, October 16, 2014 at 6 p.m. The hearing will be at the Piccadilly Inn, located at 2305 West Shaw Avenue, Fresno, CA 93711. The Draft EIS, which addresses the impacts of five action alternatives and one no-action alternative, is available on Reclamation’s website: https://www.usbr.gov/mp/sccao/storage/ ###
09.17.2014	Fresno, CA — Congressman Jim Costa (Fresno-D) released the following statement after President Obama’s speech on the Administration’s strategy to degrade, and ultimately destroy, ISIL. “ISIL is a very real threat that must be dealt with in a focused and decisive manner. They are attempting to gain territory, arms and the financial means to continue carrying out barbaric atrocities,” said Rep. Jim Costa.“We must come together to form a coalition, with both domestic and international support, to destroy this terrorist organization. It is imperative that we learn from past mistakes and engage in a strategy that uses our strengths,” continued Costa. “I look forward to a full debate in Congress.” ###
09.17.2014	Fresno, CA — Congressman Jim Costa (Fresno-D) released the following statement regarding the recent announcement by the CDC that the Salmonella Heidelberg outbreak attributed to Fosters Farms was coming to an end. “Last Thursday July 31, the CDC indicated that the Salmonella Heidelberg outbreak attributed to Foster Farms was drawing to a close. Let’s remember that Salmonella is not an issue associated with any one particular company or one particular state, it is a national problem that continues today. “Foster Farms has invested more than $75 million in driving down Salmonella levels to less than 5%, well below the USDA 2011/2012 industry measured national benchmark of 25%. This progress in reducing Salmonella was achieved in less than a year, drawing upon the best expertise and food safety technology available; creating a Salmonella control program that spans the entire poultry production process from farm to package. Foster Farms has actively shared its learning in reducing Salmonella with the USDA and CDC, the poultry industry and retailers, and the result will be a safer food supply for us all. “I join with my colleague Senator Feinstein in commending Foster Farms for the thoroughness with which they have attacked this problem, and for the results they have achieved. Our goal should be to extend this performance standard to the rest of the poultry industry and the nation.” ###
08.01.2014	Washington, D.C. — Today, Representatives Rick Crawford (R-AR) and Jim Costa (D-CA) announced the formation of the Congressional Rodeo Caucus. The caucus, and its members, will serve as an informal group dedicated to issues of the rodeo industry and helping to facilitate a constructive dialogue about animal welfare matters. The caucus establishes an important voice for a storied American tradition while also recognizing the need for a group of members to work on issues pertaining to animal welfare. “Rodeos are a true American tradition enjoyed by people throughout our country. They are both a window into our past and a snapshot of our current culture,” said Rep. Costa. “As such, I am honored to be Co-Chair of the Congressional Rodeo Caucus. I look forward to working with my colleague Rep. Crawford in providing a platform on which issues pertaining to the rodeo industry can be openly discussed.” The caucus will seek members from congressional districts who have active rodeo events of any size or scale as well as members who have a desire to work on issues surrounding animal welfare. Costa not only has one of the top PRCA Silver Tour Rodeos serving his district, but also one of the nation’s oldest rodeos, having just celebrated its 100thAnniversary. Costa has seen first-hand how rodeo plays a vital role in the cultural identity of those who participate in and attend rodeos. Crawford was a long time participant in rodeo beginning with his time as a saddle bronc rider and later, transitioning into announcing rodeos across the country. “I am honored to be a Co-Chair of the Congressional Rodeo Caucus with my friend and colleague on the Agriculture Committee Jim Costa,” said Crawford. “I have spent the last three and a half years getting to know Jim and have found we have a shared interest and dedication to the rodeo industry and to issues surrounding animal welfare.” “We are looking forward to growing our caucus membership and working on behalf of so many people who are active and involved in the rodeo industry,” said Crawford and Costa. “For generations, rodeo has been a part of the fabric of our American culture. Ensuring that they have a voice in Washington was important to us and working on their behalf in ways that will preserve this important part of our history and will ensue that many more generations to come will be able to enjoy one of Americas greatest pastimes,” concluded Crawford and Costa. ###
07.30.2014	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA) and Rep. Rick Crawford (R-AR), Ranking Member and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Livestock, Rural Development, and Credit respectively, were joined by 110 Members of Congress in sending a letter to Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack and U.S. Trade Representative Ambassador Michael Froman regarding the impending compliance ruling by the World Trade Organization (WTO) on the U.S. Mandatory Country of Origin Labeling (COOL) rule. Should the WTO rule against the United States the Members of Congress are requesting that the Secretary of Agriculture rescind the final rule while Congress works to permanently resolve the issue. “If the WTO finds the COOL rule to be non-compliant, the resulting consequences could have a detrimental impact on our economy,” said Rep. Costa.“Congress must be prepared to act and find a solution that maintains a healthy relationship with our trading partners and protects the American economy.” The WTO is deciding on whether the current COOL rule is, in fact, non-compliant with U.S. trade obligations involving its two largest trading partners, Canada and Mexico. In the initial complaint brought against the United States by Canada and Mexico, the WTO determined that the previous COOL rule was not compliant with WTO obligations. The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) then attempted to bring the rule into compliance in the final rule on May 24, 2013, but Canada and Mexico charged that this rule was, in fact, more restrictive and would cause further harm to their industries. “This letter represents broad concern from across the country about the harmful effects that retaliatory tariffs would have on our economy,” said Rep. Crawford. “I appreciate the leadership of my colleague, Representative Costa, in joining me on this letter that is signed by well over one hundred of our fellow Members of the House, expressing concern about the outcome of the WTO ruling. Should the ruling come back and find we are not in compliance, I will work closely with Rep. Costa and others so that we can ensure our country is not unduly burdened by these increased tariffs on American exports.” ###
07.29.2014	WASHINGTON, DC- On December 11, 2013, Congressman Costa (D-CA) introduced H.R. 3706, the Victims of Child Abuse Act Reauthorization Act of 2013. A companion bill, S.1799, was introduced by Senator Coons (D-DE) in the Senate. With the Senate approving the companion bill and House concurrence, Costa’s legislation is now headed to the President’s desk for signature. “The sexual exploitation of children is a horrific crime that devastates lives indiscriminately. It is our responsibility to do all we can to protect our children from sexual predators,” said Rep. Costa. “The Victims of Child Abuse Act Reauthorization Act of 2013 will provide those who protect and advocate for our children with the tools necessary to help survivors of sexual abuse.” The Victims of Child Abuse Act Reauthorization Act of 2013 provides funding for children's advocacy centers and the development and implementation of multi-disciplinary child abuse investigation and prosecution programs. In addition, funding is made available to national organizations that provide technical assistance and training to attorneys and others instrumental to the criminal prosecution of child abuse cases. “By passing this vital piece of legislation, Congress has ensured that children’s advocacy centers can continue to assist victims of sexual abuse and provide them with the resources needed to cope with their ordeal and ultimately, live happy lives,”continued Costa. Funds from the act go directly to local Children’s Advocacy Centers (CACs) that are public-private partnerships aimed at bringing together local law enforcement, prosecutors, child protective services, and medical professionals involved in investigating cases of child abuse. Community Action Partnership of Madera County Executive Director Mattie Mendez added, “Community Action Partnership of Madera County would like to thank the President and Congress for supporting Children Advocacy Centers throughout the county by the Reauthorizing the Victims of Child Abuse Act (VOCAA). With VOCAA funding CAPMC can employ Victim Advocates who support victims of physical and sexual abuse during the most horrific time of their lives. The Sexual Assault Advocate and Victim Services Program Manager facilitate the Madera County Child Forensic Interview Team (CFIT) consisting of agency leaders, stakeholders and direct staff that have a role in responding to allegations of child sexual assault to support the victim by sharing their expertise to obtain the best outcome for the victim’s wellness. As a team we inform each other on resources that can meet the victim’s immediate and long term needs, as well as resources to support the victim’s non offending family members. This funding will assist in the growing demands for services in Madera County and training of staff.” As co-chair and co-founder of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus, Costa has been instrumental in bringing the issue of crime victims’ rights to the forefront in Congress. The mission of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus is to elevate crime victim issues in Congress in a bipartisan manner without infringing on the rights of the accused and to represent and to advocate before the Administration and within Congress on behalf of crime victims. ###
07.28.2014	Merced, CA- Yesterday, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) was joined by State Senator Anthony Cannella (R-Ceres) and State Assemblymember Adam Gray (D-Merced) in sending a letter to AT&T Assistant Vice President Jack Wright urging him to reconsider closing the company’s call centers at the Castle Commerce Center in Atwater. “For the second time, I have urged AT&T Assistant Vice President, Jack Wright, to reverse the decision to close the two call centers in Atwater. The positions at the AT&T call centers represent more than jobs; they are economic lifelines for the community,” said Rep. Costa. “At a minimum, AT&T should keep the call centers open through the end of the calendar year so that employees have the necessary time to plan for their future and the future of their families.” Earlier this month, AT&T announced that the call centers would be closing by the end of August. At the urging of Rep. Costa, the employees were given until July 15, 2014, an eight day extension from the original date, to consider relocating to another call center in Southern California, Washington, Iowa, or Colorado. Merced County, which suffers from an unemployment rate of 12.5%, will not only lose approximately 400 jobs, but also hundreds of thousands of dollars in annual revenue from AT&T’s lease. ###
07.25.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Victims’ Rights Caucus co-founders and co-chairmen Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) and Congressman Jim Costa (D-CA) issued the following statement on the NFL’s “punishment” for Baltimore Ravens running back Ray Rice: “Recently, a video emerged of Ray Rice, a Baltimore Ravens’ running back, dragging his unconscious then-fiancée out of an elevator after allegedly punching her in the face several times. He was charged with third-degree aggravated assault; however, the prosecutors later dropped the charge after a plea deal was reached. The NFL’s response? A pathetic two game suspension. The league has harsher punishments for “offenses” such as eating unapproved foods or taking fertility drugs without prior approval. “The NFL has a responsibility that goes beyond ticket sales and royalties. Our society, for better or worse, idolizes its athletes. In 2013, over 108 million Americans watched Rice help the Ravens win the Super Bowl, and thousands of young Americans wore Rice’s jersey with pride. After this decision, would a high school athlete think twice before pushing around his girlfriend? Would the abused girlfriend even bother to come forward? Unfortunately, the NFL seems more concerned with protecting its image than sending a strong message that violence against women will not be tolerated. “Domestic violence was once seen as a “family issue,” not spoken of outside of the home. As a society, we’ve made some progress, but as this incident shows, we still have a long way to go. Those who commit violence against women – even star football players – cannot get away with it. With the NFL’s decision, yet another one just did. NFL greed and stardom scores points over justice.” ###
07.22.2014	Washington, D.C. — Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA) today responded to the release of a U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) report on veteran wait times at VA Medical Centers nationwide. According to the report, new patients at the Fresno VA Medical Center wait an average of 25 days for a Primary Care appointment and 61 days for a Specialty Care appointment. “For our veterans, delayed health care is denied health care,” said Costa. “While this report shows that Fresno’s VA Medical Center was among the best in the country, we must act quickly to ensure all veterans are receiving the care they have earned.” Costa called for swift action on the Veterans Access to Care Act of 2014. Costa is an original cosponsor of this legislation, which would allow veterans to receive care from a non-VA health care facility if the veteran lives 40 miles from a VA medical facility or has waited longer than the wait-time goals for a medical appointment. “As a nation, we have a sacred responsibility to care for those who have worn the uniform of the United States military. Congress ought to pass the Veterans Access to Care Act right away to ensure our veterans are receiving timely and quality health care,” said Costa. ###
07.22.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA) announced $1 million in WaterSMART grants for the Southwest Groundwater Banking Program. The funding, which comes from the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation, will allow the Fresno Irrigation District (FID) to develop a new 60 acre groundwater recharge basin as part of the District’s Southwest Groundwater Banking Program. This project will enable the FID to capture approximately 4,200 acre-feet per year in flood flows at the new basin site and also allow an additional 1,300 acre-feet of storm water to be conveyed to James Irrigation District to be stored in their existing recharge basin sites. “It is good news that the Fresno Irrigation District has received federal funding for the Southwest Groundwater Banking Program. Recharging our groundwater supply will not only help to address the overdraft in the region, but will assist in the management of surface and groundwater supplies,” said. Rep. Costa. “In the midst of one of the worst droughts that California has experienced, it is imperative that we continue to use all of the tools in our water toolbox to effectively meet water demands and reduce the impacts of this and future droughts on the people of the Valley.” “Fresno Irrigation District appreciates our project selection by the Bureau of Reclamation for the award and the efforts of Congress to allocate funds to help assist with local projects that address groundwater overdraft in the region”, said Gary Serrato, General Manager of Fresno Irrigation District.
07.22.2014	Washington, D.C. — This week both the U.S. House of Representatives and the Senate passed the bipartisan Veterans Access to Care Act of 2014. The legislation, which Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA) proudly cosponsored, directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA) to enter into contracts with non-VA facilities to ensure veterans have access to hospital care and medical services. “The Veterans Access to Care Act of 2014 will help ensure that our veterans are receiving the high level of healthcare they have earned,” said Rep. Costa. “I am pleased to be part of the bispartisan effort to reduce appointment wait-times and provide better access to care for those who have bravely served our country.” Under the Veterans Access to Care Act of 2014, veterans who have waited longer than the wait-time goals of 14 days, have been notified by a VA facility that an appointment for hospital care or medical services is not available within wait-time goals, or reside more than 40 miles from a VA medical facility are eligible to be seen at a non-VA facility. “Our veterans have made incredible sacrifices for this nation and they deserve the best in healthcare,” said Costa. “Congress must continue to make the medical care of our veterans a priority and fix the problems that have plagued the system for years.” ###
07.22.2014	Merced, CA- Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) expressed extreme frustration over AT&T’s announced closure of the company’s two call centers at the Castle Commerce Center in Atwater. The closure will result in the loss of 400 jobs, the largest private sector layoff in Merced County in more than two decades. “These jobs are critical to the hardworking families of Merced County and their loss will have a negative economic impact throughout the county,” said Rep. Costa. “I am personally reaching out to AT&T Assistant Vice President Jack Wright, urging him to reconsider the closure of these call centers. Those at AT&T responsible for this decision should sit down with representatives of Merced County to determine what alternatives are available to allow these call centers to remain open.” On Friday AT&T announced to its employees that the call centers would be closing by the end of August. Employees have until July 7, 2014 to consider relocating to another call center in Southern California, Washington, Iowa, or Colorado. Those who would consider relocating are being offered $5,000. Employees would have less than two months to find new housing, change their children’s schools, sell and ship their personal items, and travel hundreds, if not thousands of miles to their new place of employment. Employees would be expected to report to the new location by August 26, 2014. “It is completely unacceptable that AT&T is giving its employees, some of whom have worked there for more than a decade, 10 days to either uproot their lives or lose their jobs,” Costa went on to say. “At the very least an extended timeline and an increased compensation package should be provided to these displaced employees.” ###
07.22.2014	Washington, D.C. — Yesterday evening, Rep. Jim Costa (D-Fresno) supported H.R. 803, the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA), which passed the U.S. House of Representatives with strong bipartisan support. The legislation, which is headed to President Obama’s desk for signature, will reauthorize the Workforce Investment Act of 1998, thereby updating the nation’s workforce development system. “The Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act is crucial to getting Americans back to work and revitalizing our economy. Updated workforce development programs will ensure that our job seekers have the skills necessary to be competitive in today’s workforce,” said Rep. Costa. “I supported this bipartisan legislation because it will spur growth and encourage job creation in regions like the San Joaquin Valley. Without this bill, organizations such as the Fresno Regional Workforce Investment Board, Merced County Workforce Investment Board, and others would not be able to help our community as much as they do.” WIOA modernizes and improves existing federal workforce development programs, helps fund on-the-job learning opportunities, and assists workers in developing skills for 21st Century jobs. It also provides support to people with disabilities to enter and remain in competitive, integrated job settings and fosters the modern workforce that evolving American businesses rely on to compete. WIOA services range from improving adult literacy rates and strengthening programs for out-of-school youth to mentoring businesses on best practices for employing individuals with disabilities. “The passage of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act is very exciting because it offers us the chance to continue building on the improvements that we, in Merced County, have been able to make,” said Robert Morris, Director of the Department of Workforce Investment for the County of Merced. “Not only will we be able to develop new efficiencies, but we will be better equipped to innovate and meet the needs of our changing workforce.” “We at the Fresno Regional WIB are ecstatic to hear of the passage of the Workforce Innovation Opportunity Act (WIOA) by the House of Representatives. This much needed legislation gives solidity to our system and reinforces our focus on meeting the needs of America’s employers,” said Blake Konczal, Executive Director of the Fresno Regional Workforce Investment Board. “Unemployed workers, many of whom are returning veterans, will benefit from both added accountability metrics as well as measures to end the volatility in levels of federal spending on worker re-training.” ###
07.22.2014	Fresno, CA — Today, Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA) issued the following statement after President Obama pledged to take administrative action to address immigration. The President acknowledged that Speaker Boehner will not allow the House to vote on immigration reform legislation this year. “It is the job of Congress to face and resolve challenging issues, like our broken immigration,” said Rep. Jim Costa. “Instead of allowing the House to vote on the bipartisan Senate-passed reform legislation or presenting an alternate bill, Speaker Boehner has decided to completely ignore immigration reform. He has turned a blind eye to one of the most pressing issues of our time. By denying Congress a vote, the Speaker has taken away our ability to represent our districts. “Now, in the face of Congressional inaction, the President must consider taking administrative action. He has been left no alternative. Each day that our immigration system remains broken jobs are lost and our economy struggles. Now is the time for decisive action. ” ###
06.06.2014	Fresno, Calif. — Rep. Jim Costa (D-Fresno) today praised the introduction of a bipartisan bill to extend a pilot program that has helped the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) balance complex demands, including oil and gas permitting and environmental management in the West. Senators Tom Udall (D-NM) and John Barrasso (R-WY) introduced the legislation today. “The Federal Permit Streamlining Project has proven successful in improving coordination of energy permitting on federal lands and has a track record of success in the pilot offices where it has been implemented,” said Costa. The BLM Permit Processing Improvement Act of 2014 reauthorizes the Permit Processing Improvement Fund and provides flexibility to designate new project offices to account for new plays and shifting industry priorities. I commend Senator Udall for introducing this legislation to responsibly expedite energy permitting and look forward to working with the Senator and my House colleagues to reauthorize and expand this common sense program.” A longtime supporter of the an “all of the above” energy strategy and increased permitting process efficiencies, Costa is a senior member of the U.S. House Committee on Natural Resources, which has primary jurisdiction over legislation related to the BLM. ###
06.06.2014	Fresno, Calif. — Rep. Jim Costa (D-Fresno) today announced $6.3 million in Agricultural Water Conservation and Efficiency grants. The U.S. Bureau of Reclamation, in partnership with the Natural Resources Conservation Service, released the federal funding to help communities in California modernize their water infrastructure and more efficiently use scarce water resources. “San Joaquin Valley growers are national leaders in water conservation because they know that water means more nutritious food for the world and good jobs for Californians,” said Costa. “In the midst of this horrific drought, this critical funding will provide some assistance to water districts and growers to use each precious drop of water even more efficiently. This is not enough. That’s why I am working every day on comprehensive drought relief. legislation that will bring more water to our Valley.” The following is a summary of selected projects that affect San Joaquin Valley water districts and growers: Arvin-Edison Water Storage District – Water Conservation and Efficiency Project Reclamation Funding: $1,000,000 Total Project Cost: $2,000,000 Arvin-Edison Water Storage District’s Water Conservation and Efficiency Project will include the Pilot In-lieu Project, which includes construction of a pipeline network to and from the district’s South Canal to (1) provide surface water supply during supplemental/ample water years to landowners who normally pump groundwater to meet crop demand, and (2) plumb landowner wells to the district for increased extraction capability during deficit water supply years. As part of the district’s project, steps will also be taken to modernize and make capacity improvements to the district’s Sycamore Check Structure and improve water management for the south half of the district as well as provide long-term water supply benefits to the district into the future. The proposed project is estimated to achieve water savings of 14,203 acre-feet.Buena Vista Water Storage District – Northern Area Pipeline Project Reclamation Funding: $1,000,000 Total Project Cost: $10,262,843 The proposed project is designed to improve over-all District water use efficiency by (1) converting 9,845 acres of farmland currently served by an unlined canal to a pipeline to eliminate canal losses, and (2) by developing a year-round irrigation system, which would eliminate much groundwater pumping. The proposed project is estimated to achieve water savings of 4,737 acre-feet annually.Cawelo Water District – Calloway Canal Lining Project: Reach C2 Reclamation Funding: $1,000,000 Total Project Cost: $2,006,179 The project proposes to concrete line 2,900 linear feet of the currently unlined Calloway Canal, a portion designed Reach C2. Lining Reach C2 will decrease seepage losses on the order of 11 acre-feet per day - mile. Reach C2 lies outside the service area of both Cawelo and North Kern, overlying a portion of regional groundwater basin that is lesser quality due to past industrial practices in the area. As such, reducing seepage losses in this reach will reduce the amount of water that mixes with the lesser quality groundwater, considered irrecoverable losses since the water cannot be pumped for later use without a substantial treatment process. Reducing losses will also improve water conveyance for these districts, making sure water is delivered to its intended destination, and increase the capability of the districts to deliver more State-supplied surface water. The proposed project is estimated to achieve water savings of 581 acre-feet annually. Central California Irrigation District - CCID Oil Station System Improvements Reclamation Funding: $418,500 Total Project Cost: $850,000 The Oil Station system is a combined pipeline and unlined ditch system with inadequate capacity to meet its delivery needs and inhibits the conversion to high-efficiency irrigation systems within its service area. The proposed project will install a combination PVC pipe and concrete-lined canal and a mid-system reservoir, replacing the westerly half of the Oil Station system with new facilities. The proposed project is estimated to achieve water savings of 1,055 acre-feet annually.Firebaugh Canal Water District - Firebaugh CWD 2nd Lift Lining Project Phase 4; Washoe Avenue to Douglas Avenue Reclamation Funding: $1,000,000 Total Project Cost: $2,189,500 The proposed project will replace about 2.6 miles of an existing earthen channel with a concrete-lined canal and upgrade the flow-control capabilities and metering of a primary pump station. The existing channel is a primary lift canal for Firebaugh Canal Water District with a capacity of 120 cubic feet per second for this reach of the canal. Because the canal is unlined, it loses about 336 acre-feet per year through seepage. This lost water is not only unavailable for irrigation uses but also contributes to the discharge of saline subsurface drain water to the San Joaquin River system. The proposed project is estimated to achieve water savings of 336 acre-feet annually. North Kern Water Storage District - Calloway Canal Lining Project: Reach D Reclamation Funding: $609,500 Total Project Cost: $1,219,000 The proposed project involves concrete lining of 1,490 linear feet of the currently unlined Calloway Canal. Reach D lies outside the service areas of both North Kern and Cawelo and overlies a portion of the regional groundwater basin that is of diminished quality due to past land uses, particularly industrial and petrochemical seepage on the northern end of the city of Bakersfield. Minimizing seepage from the Calloway Canal will reduce the irrecoverable losses that result when high-quality surface water seeps to poor-quality groundwater and the degraded seepage cannot be recovered for later use without substantial treatment. Reducing losses will also enhance the districts’ capability to deliver increased volumes of water from the State Water Project to irrigators. The proposed project is estimated to achieve water savings of 296 acre-feet annually. More information on the funding can be found on the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation’s website, here: https://www.usbr.gov/newsroom/newsrelease/detail.cfm?RecordID=47145 ###
05.30.2014	Costa: “We must get to the bottom of this mess” Washington, D.C. — Rep. Jim Costa (D-Fresno) today responded to the resignation of Secretary Eric Shinseki, calling the problems at the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) “endemic.” Costa has worked for years to provide the department with the necessary resources to care for our veterans and hold officials accountable for unacceptable wait times at VA Regional Offices. “General Shinseki did the right thing by submitting his resignation to the President. Notwithstanding his long and distinguished service to our country, the problems associated with the VA have been problematic for years going back to previous administrations. In my opinion, the problems are endemic,” said Costa. “We have seen these problems in the Valley as well, with too many veterans benefits claims stuck in the backlog at the Oakland Regional Office. Two weeks ago, I requested a full briefing from the VA and the Inspector General on the nationwide audit of all medical clinics, including the VA Central California Health Care System. We must get to the bottom of this mess and restore veterans’ faith in the Veterans Affairs medical system. “The President and new Acting Director Sloan Gibson have an opportunity to overhaul the VA to better serve the men and women who served our country. I look forward to working with them to ensure our veterans receive the benefits and care they deserve.” Last month, the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed a bipartisan amendment, authored by Congressman Costa, which would give the VA additional resources to address the shameful disability claims backlog. The majority of California veterans have their cases processed by the Oakland and Los Angeles offices where the average time a case is pending is 385 and 317 days, respectively. The bipartisan amendment redirects an additional $10 million to pay for programs like the Veterans Claims Intake Program, the centralized mail initiative, and staff overtime, which will help break the logjam. ###
05.14.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Andy Flick May 13, 2014 202-225-3341 Costa Responds to Updated Water Allocation Fresno, CA — Rep. Jim Costa commented today on the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation’s announcement of an update to the 2014 Central Valley Project water supply. The Bureau’s announcement confirmed the availability of water supplies for the San Joaquin River Exchange Contractors Water Authority from April to October and increased the allocation for the refuges. While Costa agreed that the water increases are “a step forward,” he raised concern about the decision’s negative impacts, including the removal of tens of thousands of permanent citrus orchards and significant impacts to the Valley’s economy. He also reiterated his call for all parties to work together to solve California’s short-term and long-standing water challenges.“Today’s announcement of increased water supply for some San Joaquin Valley farmers is a step forward,” said Costa. “However, the impacts of this decision on both the Friant Water Authority and the west side of the San Joaquin Valley could not be more disappointing and points out how broken our water system is today. Unless we are able to come together to increase our water supply, reform the regulatory environment, and reliably move water through the Delta, I fear that this will become the new normal. It’s far past time for the rest of California to stand up and join us in the Valley to fix our broken water system. I urge the President, the Governor, and my House and Senate colleagues to show the leadership necessary to solve this problem that has plagued our Valley and the rest of California for far too long.” Rep. Costa has introduced a package of bills to address California’s water supply challenges, including: H.R. 1927, the More Water and Security for Californians Act, which would provide Congressional direction on how the Delta pumps operate, while maintaining many environmental protections for species A series of bills to increase storage in the system, including legislation that would: Expand San Luis Reservoir to increase storage capacity by 130,000 acre feet of storage with an approximate annual yield of 40,000 acre feet. The total cost of the project would be an estimated $360 million with approximately $240 million of that already being invested for seismic improvements. Raise Shasta Dam to add an additional 634,000 acre feet of storage to the dam and increase annual yield by 76,000 acre feet and add 76,000-133,000 acre feet to the system during dry years. Estimated total cost of the project is $1.1 billion. Construct Temperance Flat (Upper San Joaquin River Storage) to create 1.3 million acre feet of storage with an annual yield of 60,000-75,000 acre feet. In dry years an additional 103,000-254,400 acre feet would be added to the system at a cost of around $2.5 billion. Expand an existing pilot program to lease excess storage capacity in non-federal reservoirs, including Los Vaqueros, to the Bureau of Reclamation. This would allow for the expansion of Los Vaqueros to its already permitted capacity of 275,000 acre feet at no cost to the federal taxpayer. ###
04.29.2014	WASHINGTON, DC— The U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed a bipartisan amendment, authored byCongressman Jim Costa (D-CA), which would give the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs additional resources to address the shameful disability claims backlog. The majority of California veterans have their cases processed by the Oakland and Los Angeles offices where the average time a case is pending is 385 and 317 days, respectively. The bipartisan amendment redirects an additional $10 million to pay for programs like the Veterans Claims Intake Program, the centralized mail initiative, and staff overtime. “No one can deny that the VA has taken strong, meaningful steps to end the backlog, but we must give the VA the resources to do more,”said Costa. “My amendment provides additional funding to end the shameful backlog of disability claims that for too long has delayed benefits to veterans in the San Joaquin Valley and across the country. Our work is not complete until every strip of red tape separating a veteran from the benefits they have earned is removed.” California Reps. Doug LaMalfa (R-CA), Mike Thompson (D-CA), Jeff Denham (R-CA), and Alan Lowenthal (D-CA) were co-sponsors of Costa’s amendment. ###
04.24.2014	FRESNO, CA – Congressman Jim Costa cheered Governor Jerry Brown’s decision to suspend the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) for water transfers. In January, Costa called on the Governor to take this specific step to accelerate water exchanges that would move resources to areas where they are most needed. “In a drought year like this, it is critical that we use all the flexibility available to move scarce resources to the places in greatest need,” said Costa. “This decision will expedite the transfer of up to 150,000 acre feet to South-of-Delta communities and farms, ground zero of the drought. As communities struggle to maintain drinking water and farmers are questioning if they can hold on until next year, action could not come soon enough. Continued, coordinated efforts to bring relief to our Valley are crucial as we move through the rest of this challenging water year.”
04.09.2014	WASHINGTON— U.S. Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) and U.S. Congressman Brad Schneider (IL-10) sent a letter to Speaker John Boehner asking for an immediate vote on the Senate-passed unemployment insurance extension. Rep. Costa and Rep. Schneider led the letter, which 131 of their colleagues signed, to underscore the urgent need to extend this critical lifeline for millions of Americans. “On average, every eight seconds the House delays a vote on this bill, another jobseeker is cut off the program. People in our communities are hurting, and the unemployment rate is still unacceptably high. For Americans looking for work in a difficult economy, this critical assistance will keep a roof over their heads and food in their children’s mouths. Passing this compromise legislation will not only help our fellow citizens, but it will also strengthen the economy,” the letter said. You can read the full text of the letter here. Rep. Costa represents the San Joaquin Valley that has struggled through the economic recovery only to be hit hard again by California’s devastating drought. Some farming communities throughout the Valley could face more than 40% unemployment as fields lay fallow, and Costa has called for extending unemployment insurance to offer these hardworking people a lifeline. Rep. Schneider has been active in calling for an immediate vote on unemployment insurance and introduced a discharge petition to force a vote in the House on extending unemployment insurance. He also hosted a roundtable discussion to hear directly from constituents who recently lost their unemployment insurance. On Dec. 28th, critical unemployment insurance lapsed for 1.3 million Americans. The number of people who have lost unemployment insurance has now risen to 2.3 million people, with an average of 72,000 people losing their insurance each week. The Senate passed a bipartisan unemployment insurance extension on Monday.
04.09.2014	Legislation would expedite expansion of Los Vaqueros Reservoir WASHINGTON, DC— In response to California’s ongoing drought and the State’s immediate need for increased water storage capacity and long-term water solutions, U.S. Reps. George Miller (CA-11) and Jim Costa (CA-16) introduced new legislation today to expedite construction to expand the Los Vaqueros Reservoir, an existing State water storage project. Expanding Los Vaqueros will improve water reliability across the state and create new opportunities for flexible operations within the federal Central Valley Project, and is an important part of a coordinated, state-wide effort to help California prepare for future dry years by securing a more reliable water supply. “The devastating impacts of this drought throughout California highlight the critical need to increase water storage across the State. Expediting the expansion of Los Vaqueros is a complementary effort to increase water reliability, not just for the nearby region, but for the entire Central Valley Project,” said Miller and Costa. “Without spending a single additional federal dollar, our bill will provide greater security within California’s fragile water system. This is a clear cut win-win that all Californians can get behind.” Their bill, H.R. 4456 would: · Execute Water Storage Services Cooperative Agreements between willing water agencies, among them Contra Costa Water District (CCWD), and the Bureau of Reclamation that would expand an existing pilot program to lease excess storage capacity in non-federal reservoirs, including Los Vaqueros (LV), to the Bureau of Reclamation. This pilot would be a successful first step towards the expansion of LV from its current size of 160,000 ac/ft to the already permitted size of 275,000 ac/ft. Under these agreements, Los Vaqueros would provide replacement water supplies for drought relief for Central Valley Project contractors and federal, state and private wildlife refuges. · This long term commitment from Reclamation to utilize LV’s increased storage would allow for CCWD to secure local financing for further expansion of Los Vaqueros to 275,000 ac/ft. · The Expansion Project would consist of three phases: o Phase 1: Using existing facilities would provide up to 30,000 acre-feet of stored water available to move in the same year or subsequent years. Water would be stored when available in surplus periods. The water could be delivered to Central Valley Project (CVP) pumps at Tracy for Bay Area water agencies or refuge supplies through exchange. o Phase 2: Add pipeline from CCWD Los Vaqueros Reservoir system to Bethany Reservoir allowing direct delivery from the expanded Los Vaqueros Reservoir and CCWD’s Delta intakes to the CVP system for delivery to Bay Area water agencies or refuge supplies or other approved uses. Up to 30,000 acre-feet of stored water, plus up to an additional 30,000 acre-feet per year direct diversion when capacity is available. o Phase 3: Further expansion of Los Vaqueros Reservoir. Up to 145,000 acre-feet of storage for the 275,000 acre-foot expansion (or 370,000 acre-feet for the 500,000 acre-foot expansion) available for new supplies plus additional capability for direct diversions through available capacity from CCWD facilities.
03.19.2014	FRESNO, CA – Congressman Jim Costa expressed his deep anger during a hearing in Fresno over the lack of progress on solutions to bring additional water to the Valley. Costa has time and again supported policies advanced by his colleagues on both sides if they meet the simple test that they have the potential to improve water reliability. During the hearing, Costa urged his colleagues to put aside sound bites, stop playing the blame game, and get to work on a compromise bill that can clear both the House and the Senate. “No one will bear the burden of this drought more than the farmers, farm workers, and farm communities in our Valley,” said Costa. “We will see its effects in lost jobs, in families standing in food lines to provide for their meals, in the incredible burden on mothers and fathers trying to provide for the basic needs of their family while the fertile ground beneath their feet lies dry and fallow. “Like you, I am angry. I am angry that in the face of devastation we continue to point fingers and play the blame game, which does not bring us one additional drop of water.” Congressman Costa has introduced The California Emergency Drought Relief Act of 2014 with California Senators Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer, which has the potential to generate more than 500,000 acre-feet for water agencies that receive water from the Central Valley Project and the State Water Project according to some estimates. This legislation aims to expedite the use of federal flexibility under the law to address emergency conditions in the state. By cutting red-tape, this bill will yield immediate water for farmers and communities in the San Joaquin Valley once enacted. The bill would also authorize $300 million for disaster assistance programs. In addition, the current drought has highlighted the dire need for long-term water solutions, especially increasing the state’s storage capacity. In February, Costa introduced legislation with statewide support that would authorize construction at Shasta Dam, San Luis Reservoir, and Temperance Flat. Last May, Costa introduced H.R.1927, the More Water and Security for Californians Act, which is similar to the legislation considered by the House today. That bill provides congressional direction for the implementation of the Endangered Species Act and restores balance to our water availability that is lacking. Had the provisions in Costa’s bill been approved, California’s water system would have an additional 250,000 acre-feet of water in storage from the 2013 water year.
03.18.2014	FRESNO, CA – Congressman Jim Costa praised the State Water Resources Control Board for their prudent decision to increase operation flexibility, which will help balance the water needs of all water users, including agriculture, refuges, and municipal uses. In early March, the Board was reviewing a proposal that could have ended deliveries to Valley agriculture except during times of extremely high outflow. On March 5th, Costa joined Senators Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer along with Representative John Garamendi in sending a letter that urged the Board to be cautious and take the time necessary to fully assess the impact of recent rains prior to issuing any decision regarding prioritization of water. “This is a good step to helping meet as many water needs as possible under the extraordinary circumstances that our state is facing,” said Costa. “We pushed for extra time on this decision because we believed there was a better path forward that could avoid some of the devastating short- and long-term impacts to our agriculture economy. While this is by no means the end to this year’s water challenges for our farmers, farm workers, and farm communities, it prevents us from making a bad situation worse.” The Board’s announcement will add operational flexibility to the order that was created in February and allow water to be pumped for uses other than human health and safety as long as those needs are met first. The Bureau of Reclamation and the Department of Water Resources will also reclaim full operation of the State and Federal Water Projects to improve real-time decision making.
03.05.2014	Washington, DC—Rep. Jim Costa will travel with a bipartisan group of Senators and Representatives to the Mississippi Delta and Selma, Alabama,with civil rights leader Rep. John Lewis. The trip will mark the 50th anniversary of Freedom Summer and commemorate the 1965 crossing of the Edmund Pettus Bridge. Fresno City Councilmember Oliver Baines will accompany Costa on the pilgrimage. “Looking back nowsome might believe that the outcome of the Civil Rights movement was inevitable, but history teaches us that it was not. The sacrifices and lives given in the name of equality, civil rights, and access to the ballot box were not made in vain,” said Costa. “This journey is about honoring the legacy that is still alive today and reflecting on how we can come together now to move our nation forward. We take this trip not as Democrats or Republicans, but as Americans still hoping to heal the historic fault lines that have divided us in order to make a more perfect union.” Councilmember Baines added, “It is humbling to know that I will be walking the same ground where our civil right leaders took a stand half a century ago and moved our nation forward. This trip is an unbelievable opportunity to join with national leaders and reflect on how far we have come, where we are now, and where we are going.” The Congressional Civil Rights Pilgrimage is hosted by the Faith and Politics Institute, which is a nonpartisan organization committed to encouraging civility and engagement. This is the Institute’s 14th pilgrimage and will include visits to the Fannie Lou Hamer Memorial Garden, Medgar Ever’s Home, and historic Tougaloo College.
02.28.2014	Legislation Would Expand Shasta Dam, Temperance Flat, and San Luis Reservoir Washington, DC—Rep. Jim Costa introduced a package of legislation that would invest in California’s water infrastructure and expedite construction on existing storage projects to improve water reliability across the state. The current drought has highlighted the dire need for long-term water solutions, especially increasing the state’s storage capacity. Costa’s legislation that has won statewide support would authorize construction at Shasta Dam, San Luis Reservoir, and Temperance Flat. “Every region and political interest in the state agree that we must expand our storage capacity,” said Costa.“After three dry years, the case for this is being made every day as our reservoirs statewide are turning into mud pits during this drought. Our grandparents’ foresight has carried us for decades, but the bill has come due for our state to again invest in storage.” The expansion of the three projects is part of a coordinated, state-wide effort to help California prepare for future dry years. Cost of construction would be split between the federal and state governments along local water users. As California is poised to consider a new water bond, expediting the construction of these projects is more important than ever. The three bills would: Expand San Luis Reservoir to increase storage capacity by 130,000 acre feet of storage with an approximate annual yield of 40,000 acre feet. The total cost of the project would be an estimated $360 million with approximately $240 million of that already being invested for seismic improvements. Raise Shasta Dam to add an additional 634,000 acre feet of storage to the dam and increase annual yield by 76,000 acre feet and add 76,000-133,000 acre feet to the system during dry years. Estimated for the total cost of the project is $1.1 billion. Construct Temperance Flat (Upper San Joaquin River Storage) to create 1.3 million acre feet of storage with an annual yield of 60,000-75,000 acre feet and in dry years an additional 103,000-254,400 acre feet would be added to the system at a cost of around $2.5 billion.
02.11.2014	Washington, DC — Rep. Jim Costa introduced emergency legislation that will help maximize available resources and assist farmers and communities during this historically dry year. According to some estimates this legislation has the potential to generate more than 500,000 acre-feet for water agencies that receive water from the Central Valley Project and the State Water Project. The California Emergency Drought Relief Act of 2014 is the House companion to a bill introduced earlier today by California Senators Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer and Oregon Senators Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley. California Representatives Tony Cardenas and Sam Farr were original co-sponsors of the House bill. “This catastrophic drought and our long-standing water battles strike the heart of my district’s economy and impacts every family that calls the Valley home,” said Costa. “When I look at these devastating weather and snowpack reports, I see the faces of farm workers who could lose their jobs and their children who might be forced to leave school. For these people, there is no option but swift action on our bill that will remove the barriers that prevent limited resources from reaching those most in need.” “While a long-term solution is past due, our past water fights must not get in the way of a united response to this crisis.” With record low storage after 3 consecutive dry years, California is left with fewer options to mitigate the impact of this year’s drought. Within the next 30 to 60 days, 17 water agencies forecast that they will not be able to provide drinking water to their communities. Costa’s legislation aims to expedite the use of federal flexibility under the law to address emergency conditions in the state. By cutting red-tape, this bill will yield immediate water for farmers and communities in the San Joaquin Valley once enacted. The bill would also authorize $300 million for disaster assistance programs. Key provisions in the bill: Provides federal authorization and orders the Interior and Commerce Departments to cooperate with a California Water Resources Board plan to keep the Delta Cross Channel Gates open as long as possible to allow more water to be delivered without endangering migrating salmon. This action is expected to save thousands of acre feet of water from upstream reservoirs each month this spring; Mandates that federal agencies use flexibility under existing law to maximize water supplies using Delta pumping. Under the Delta smelt biological opinion, which is required by the Endangered Species Act, pumping that results in “reverse flows” of water between -1,250 and -5,000 cubic-feet-per-second is permitted for the Old and Middle Rivers between December and June. This “reverse flow” occurs when the state and federal water pumps are turned on to draw water from the rivers into the South Delta for water users. The bill requires federal agencies to operate the pumps within this range to maximize water supplies while remaining consistent with the biological opinion and the Endangered Species Act; Directs the Department of the Interior to maintain in April and May a 1:1 “inflow-to-export ratio” for San Joaquin River flows that result from water transfers and exchanges. This means water districts willing to sell or trade surplus supplies to districts with less water can move 100 percent of that surplus water through the Delta instead of just a fraction. This will also allow greater water transfers if California receives additional rain. Amends the Stafford Act to provide additional individual emergency assistance for major droughts when a state of emergency declaration is made by the president; Authorizes additional expenditures above existing funding caps for the Reclamation States Emergency Drought Relief Act (from $90 million to $190 million) and the WaterSMART program (from $200 million to $250 million). These programs channel funds to water projects that can lead to increased water supplies; Prioritize WaterSMART grants to provide emergency water supplies to communities at risk of losing access to water sufficient to meet basic public health and safety needs; to prevent the loss of permanent crops; and to minimize economic damage caused by the drought; Mandates that the federal government issue final decisions for projects and operations that can provide additional water supply benefits within 10 days of a request from the state; Authorizes funding for federal agencies to develop other water sources, such as groundwater wells and water purchases, for Central Valley Project wildlife refuges so that surface water saved can be used for drinking water and crops; Authorizes water planning and management activities to reduce water use in the Klamath Basin; Extends the period during which water contractors can take deliveries of 2013 water from February 28 to April 15, allowing them more flexibility to manage their 2014 supplies; and Authorizes contractors facing economic hardship to delay federal fee payments related to water deliveries. Funding increases for drought assistance programs: $100 million in emergency funds for Department of the Interior projects to rapidly increase water supplies; $100 million in emergency assistance for farmers to fund water conservation measures that protect lands and sensitive watersheds; $25 million to the Emergency Community Water Assistance Grants program for water conservation projects and to protect and upgrade water systems. These grants of up to $1 million are to complete projects that boost the availability and quality of drinking water, including in California communities at risk of running out of safe drinking water; $25 million for Pre-Disaster Mitigation Grants that fund community projects to reduce harmful effects of the drought; $25 million in grant funding for public and nonprofit institutions to provide emergency assistance to low-income migrant and seasonal farmworkers who are directly harmed by the drought; $25 million in grants for private forest landowners to carry out conservation measures in response to drought and wildlife risks; and Allows the Secretary of Agriculture to help cover losses caused by the drought through the Emergency Assistance for Livestock, Honeybees, and Farm-Raised Fish Program.
02.07.2014	Washington, DC — Rep. Jim Costa applauded President Obama’s signing of the Farm Bill which marks the end of a more than 3 year contentious debate about the nation’s farm and nutrition policies. As a member of the conference committee that was tasked with crafting compromise legislation, Costa worked with his Democratic and Republican colleagues to find middle ground on political and regional interests. For California, Costa fought to protect programs that are critical to the state’s agriculture such as specialty crop investments, drought assistance programs, and air quality mitigation efforts. “We hit a lot of bumps in this debate, but we finally finished the job when we rolled up our sleeves and sat down together,” said Costa. “As partisan interests raged and outside groups weighed in, it seemed at times like we might never see this day. This bill is not perfect, but it is a good faith compromise that protects low-income families and seniors while maintaining the support America’s farmers need to keep feeding the nation. “This day shows that Congress is still capable of putting the interests of our constituents above the partisan noise.” The bipartisan compromise Farm Bill that was signed into law today contained many victories for Valley farmers and producers. These include among others: Renews agriculture disaster assistance programs that help farmers, ranchers, and dairy producers keep their operations afloat during difficult times such as the current drought in California. $550 million over 10 years for the Specialty Crop Research Initiative (SCRI) to encourage the development of new technologies and improved efficiencies in the production of specialty crops, plus $25 million for emergency citrus disease research. $800 million for the Specialty Crop Block Grants Program over 10 years to strengthen the market for the specialty crops we grow in our Valley like fruits, vegetables, and nuts. $700 million over 10 years to prevent the introduction and spread of plant pests and diseases. Expansion of Risk Management options for specialty crops and underserved commodities. Maintains level funding ($1.75 billion) for the Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP) with a $25 million dollar carve out for air quality mitigation that assists farmers with upgrades that improve Valley air. Congressman Costa serves as the Ranking Member on Subcommittee on Livestock, Rural Development, and Credit. He has been a strong advocate for passing a Farm Bill that will modernize the nation’s agriculture policies and provide certainty to Valley agriculture, the economic engine of the region. Raised on a dairy farm in the Kearney Park area, Costa is a third-generation family farmer.
02.05.2014	Washington, DC — Rep. Jim Costa supported legislation aimed at easing environmental restrictions that can prevent water from reaching farmers and communities in the San Joaquin Valley. Pointing toward recent bipartisan success on rescheduled water, Costa also urged his colleagues to recognize that now was the time for bipartisan, triage legislation that will bring immediate relief to farmers and rural communities, not revisit previous battles in the California water. “As California is in the midst of the worst drought on record and reservoirs are at record lows, the people in my district deserve an effort that deals with the current realities and can offer help now,” said Costa. “And as much as I think a number of reforms in this bill are long overdue and some of the policy decisions have increased the damage of the current drought conditions, we all have to recognize that we’re in triage mode and need to focus on the art of possible. It is time for cooler heads to prevail.” In the coming days, Rep. Costa plans to introduce legislation with Sens. Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer that would yield immediate water for Valley farmers and communities. “We need to focus on the crisis at hand then return to our discussion about a long-term solution. My bill with Sens. Feinstein and Boxer will help offer a lifeline to get through this year, and I hope in the spirit of compromise that my Republican colleagues will support this just as I offered my support to their bill today.” Last May, Costa introduced H.R.1927, the More Water and Security for Californians Act, which is similar to the legislation considered by the House today. That bill provides congressional direction for the implementation of the Endangered Species Act and restores balance to our water availability that is lacking. Had the provisions of Costa’s bill been in place, California’s water system would have an additional 250,000 acre-feet of water in storage from the 2013 water year.
02.03.2014	Washington, DC — Rep. Jim Costa joined U.S Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack and California Department of Food and Agriculture Secretary Karen Ross to announce $20 million for agriculture water conservation efforts in California to help mitigate the impacts from the ongoing drought. During the call, USDA said that landowners and managers will have until March 3rd to apply for assistance from Natural Resources Conservation Service. “Our state is facing a disaster that has the potential to devastate our economy and force many of my constituents out of work,” said Costa. “While we’re all praying for rain, we need all the help we can get in responding to this crisis. “To a farmer every drop of water is precious, but in years like this it can be the difference between keeping their employees on payroll or being forced to let them go. In my district, water issues have always had a human face. “I would like to thank Secretary Vilsack and the Administration for this first good step, but we all acknowledge that a much greater effort will be required to respond to the catastrophic drought conditions facing California.” The funds were made available through the Natural Resources Conservation Service’s Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP) that helps farmers use water more efficiently and stabilize fallowed cropland. These statewide funds are available for conservation efforts including irrigation efficiency, cover crops, rehabilitation of existing spring developments, protection of grazing lands, and other supporting components. As a member of the House Agriculture Committee, Costa has been a strong advocate for the EQIP program and other disaster assistance programs. Growers facing a reduced water allocation of at least 85 percent will receive the highest priority in assistance consideration. For additional information, eligible landowners are encouraged to contact their local NRCS Service Center. Service center locations and more information on the drought initiative can be found at www.ca.nrcs.usda.gov.
01.30.2014	Fresno, CA — Rep. Jim Costa cheered the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation’s decision to honor rescheduled water deliveries to San Joaquin Valley farmers. Costa joined with Sen. Dianne Feinstein and Reps. Kevin McCarthy, Devin Nunes, and David Valadao on a letter earlier this week in opposition to rumors that the Bureau was considering halting rescheduled water deliveries which farmers had held in reserve during previous years in anticipation of continued drought conditions. Sen. Barbara Boxer also weighed in with the Bureau in support of maintaining rescheduled water. “Farmers who did the responsible thing last year by hedging against the dry conditions ahead now know that their water investment will be there to help them make it through this dry year,” said Costa. “By presenting a united, bipartisan front, we ensured that the Valley’s concerns were heard loud and clear by the Administration. “This year is going to bring unprecedented water management challenges, and I applaud the Bureau and the Administration for making a fair decision to preserve rescheduled water deliveries. Given the sensitivity and far-reaching impact of these decisions, we have to work together to balance the interests and provide as much assistance as possible to all water users. “Today’s victory proves that progress on our water challenges is possible with cooperation and coordinated effort.”
01.28.2014	Washington, DC — Rep. Jim Costa, the highest ranking Californian on the House Agriculture Committee, supported a long-overdue compromise Farm Bill that delivers many victories for the state’s farmers, livestock, and dairy producers. As a member of the conference committee that negotiated with the Senate, Costa fought to protect programs that are critical to California agriculture such as specialty crop investments, drought assistance programs, and air quality mitigation efforts. The Senate must now approve the Farm Bill Conference Report before it heads to the President for his signature. “As the leading agriculture state in the country, California is a big winner in this Farm Bill,” said Costa. “Though this is not a perfect bill, the agreement is the result of more than three years of bipartisan negotiations, two marathon committee mark-ups, and multiple floor debates. From investing in the healthy fruits and vegetables we grow to renewing the disaster relief programs that help farmers and producers during difficult times, this bill gives Valley agriculture many of the tools we need to keep feeding the nation. “This has been a long road with many repeats, but today the House put jobs and the economic security of rural Americans before partisan politics.” The bipartisan compromise Farm Bill that cleared the House today contained many victories for Valley farmers and producers. These include among others: Renews agriculture disaster assistance programs that help farmers, ranchers, and dairy producers keep their operations afloat during difficult times such as the current drought in California. $550 million over 10 years for the Specialty Crop Research Initiative (SCRI) to encourage the development of new technologies and improved efficiencies in the production of specialty crops, plus $25 million for emergency citrus disease research. $800 million for the Specialty Crop Block Grants Program over 10 years to strengthen the market for the specialty crops we grow in our Valley like fruits, vegetables, and nuts. $700 million over 10 years to prevent the introduction and spread of plant pests and diseases. Expansion of Risk Management options for specialty crops and underserved commodities. Maintains level funding ($1.75 billion) for the Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP) with a 25 million dollar carve out for air quality mitigation that assists farmers with upgrades that improve Valley air. The legislation also included a provision that would allow California the opportunity to enter the Federal Milk Marketing Order. Costa has long advocated giving producers the chance to petition the U.S. Agriculture Secretary for entrance into the Federal Order. The final language failed to resolve the meat labeling issue that put ranchers and poultry producers business at risk with important trade partners. During floor debate, Costa announced that he will be introducing legislation to fix this labeling problem once and for all in the coming weeks. The final conference report also rolled back efforts to make an extreme $40.5 million cut to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) that provides critical food assistance to low-income families and seniors. Costa also fought and succeeded in blocking the inclusion of a provision that would have undermined California law and put the state’s egg industry at a competitive disadvantage. Congressman Costa serves as the Ranking Member on Subcommittee on Livestock, Rural Development, and Credit. He has been a strong advocate for passing a Farm Bill that will modernize the nation’s agriculture policies and provide certainty to Valley agriculture, the economic engine of the region. Raised on a dairy farm in the Kearney Park area, Costa is a third-generation family farmer.
01.27.2014	Washington, DC — Rep. Jim Costa issued the following statement in response to President Barack Obama’s State of the Union address. “For our Valley, the most important words the President uttered tonight were not in his actual speech, but when he told me ‘we have a drought to work together on’ before he took to the podium,” said Costa. “As we face this water crisis, California needs all the help we can get, and I hope he remains true to his promise to be a partner in our struggle. “Recent years have been difficult and our recovery uneven, but we are finally seeing reasons to be optimistic about the future of our nation. The President called for this year to be one of action and the 10 million Americans still living in the shadows could not agree more while they continue to wait for Congress to act on immigration reform. We also need to turn the tide of small, short-term thinking by building a 21st century water and transportation system capable of advancing our economy and keeping pace with our growing population. “While I have had my differences with the Obama Administration, I agree that now is the time for us to reexamine our priorities, now is the time to put the middle class first, now is the time for progress.”
01.26.2014	Washington, DC- In response to reports that the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation is considering halting rescheduled water deliveries to San Joaquin Valley farmers, Senator Dianne Feinstein and Congressmen Jim Costa, Kevin McCarthy, Devin Nunes, and David Valadao joined together to urge the Administration to reconsider this potentially devastating move. The bipartisan group of lawmakers called for action consistent with the law within the next week that would provide assurances to Valley farmers who have invested in these reserves in previous years in anticipation of continued drought conditions. Full text of the letter below: January 26, 2014 The Honorable Michael Connor Commissioner United States Bureau of Reclamation 1849 C Street, NW Washington, DC 20240-0001 Dear Commissioner Connor, It has come to our attention that the United States Bureau of Reclamation (Reclamation) is considering reversing its long-held policy related to the use of rescheduled water in order to meet other Central Valley Project (CVP) water delivery obligations. While we recognize the incredibly dry conditions facing many CVP contractors, we strongly oppose the reallocation of any rescheduled water for any use other than its originally intended purpose as a reserve supply secured by contractors in anticipation of ongoing drought conditions. As you know, two years of dry conditions, followed by the driest calendar year in California’s recorded history, have severely strained California’s water system. Many CVP contractors have taken prudent steps in years past to plan for just these circumstances by conserving water or purchasing water at great expense. It is our understanding that CVP contractors have spent approximately $150 million on water transfers in order to preserve an estimated 340,000 acre feet of project water in San Luis Reservoir. This was done with the understanding that the water would be rescheduled or “carried over” for use in years when natural hydrology or project operations reduce the amount of water available to these contractors. Redirecting rescheduled water to other CVP contractors would unfairly wreak economic havoc on those contractors who invested in drought reserve water supplies. This is simply unacceptable. We respectfully request that the Bureau provide clear guidance on its rescheduled water policy and 2014 CVP operational plans within the next week which provides assurances to those contractors due rescheduled water that those supplies will be fully available to them. It is essential that the Bureau act quickly to provide farmers and contractors the certainty they need to plan for the very difficult year ahead. Thank you for your attention to this matter and we look forward to your response.
01.22.2014	Hopes He Can Support Republican Proposal Merced, CA — Rep. Jim Costa issued the following statement upon Valley Republicans unveiling their emergency drought proposal. “Now is the time for California’s lawmakers to come together with bipartisan solutions that will help our state cope with these historic drought conditions,” said Costa. “Though I have not yet seen the legislation, I hope to be able to support it once I have the opportunity to fully review the bill. Should our prayers for rain finally be answered, it is my understanding that this proposal might arm us with another tool that could help minimize the devastating impacts of this dry year. I look forward to working with my fellow Valley representatives and supporting any good-faith effort that prepares us for the long, hard road ahead.” Last week, Costa joined Sens. Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer in calling on President Obama to form a federal drought task force capable of coordinating a swift, decisive cross-agency response to the state’s looming water crisis. In a letter, the lawmakers also asked that the President move quickly to authorize a disaster declaration should California request a federal declaration.
01.17.2014	Washington, DC— Rep. Jim Costa issued the following statement following Governor Jerry Brown’s decision to issue a statewide drought declaration: “As we face this water crisis, there is no time to waste,” said Costa“Many of us have been telling the Governor how dire the situation is for months, but after coming to the Valley this week he saw for himself that swift action was not only warranted, but is necessary. The Governor’s announcement was a good first step, but without significant rainfall soon we will likely need additional help from the state beyond what is in this declaration in the coming months. “Since the Governor has now acted, I hope the President will follow his lead and form the federal task force that I along with Senators Feinstein and Boxer called for earlier this week. “Now we must keep the momentum going because the most difficult challenges still lie ahead. We all have to stick together and put the politics aside if we hope to make it through this.”
01.15.2014	Washington, DC- In light of California’s extreme dry conditions, Senator Dianne Feinstein, Senator Barbara Boxer, and Congressman Jim Costa called on President Obama to form a federal drought task force capable of coordinating a swift, decisive cross-agency response to the state’s looming water crisis. In a letter, the lawmakers also asked that the President move quickly to authorize a disaster declaration should California request a federal declaration. Last month, Costa and Feinstein urged California Governor Jerry Brown to declare a statewide drought emergency that would mobilize additional resources necessary to address the state’s current water challenges. Full text of the letter below: January 16, 2014 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House Pennsylvania Ave, Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama: We are writing to urge you to take immediate action to address California’s dire water supply conditions by directing the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Commerce and the Assistant Secretary of the Army to pursue all available strategies and actions to alleviate the impacts of the drought on Californians. The precarious water supply situation in California cannot be overstated: Calendar year 2013 was the driest year on record for the State of California. Three years of dry conditions in California, coupled with 14 years of consecutive dry conditions in the Colorado River Basin, has depleted the carryover storage in reservoirs for the Central Valley Project and the State Water Project to historically low levels, below even the previous record low levels in 1977, the year of the last federal drought declaration. On November 20, 2013, the California Department of Water Resources (DWR) announced the historically lowest initial State Water Project allocation of 5 percent for water year 2014. The United States Bureau of Reclamation has acknowledged that without significant precipitation, there may be a zero percent initial allocation for Central Valley Project South of Delta contractors. Most recently, on Friday, January 3rd, DWR performed a snowpack survey that showed the snowpack is approximately 20 percent of statewide average for this time of year, and only seven percent of statewide average peak snowpack. Water agencies across the state have begun issuing orders for mandatory water rationing. We have ahead of us an incredible challenge that will require the highest levels of engagement and flexibility on the part of federal and state water and regulatory agencies in order to avoid devastating socioeconomic and environmental impacts to many regions of California, particularly to the agricultural heart of California, the Central Valley. On December 17, 2013, Governor Brown convened a drought task force to develop strategies and to prioritize actions that state agencies can take to address the ongoing drought impacting our constituents. Federal agencies, backed by support from the White House, should ensure that they are doing all they can to coordinate and expand on all drought mitigation opportunities identified by the state agencies that involve federal authorities, in addition to the ongoing work by federal agencies to identify areas of flexibility within their own authorities. We request that you immediately appoint a federal drought task force and appoint a federal drought coordinator to parallel efforts at the state level. The federal drought coordinator should be charged with coordinating actions and responses across federal agencies and coordinating with state agencies related to the drought conditions affecting California. The ongoing dry conditions call for immediate, measurable actions from federal agencies to complement the work being done at the state level to address the water supply challenges that face California. If California requests a broad federal disaster declaration, we urge you to issue this declaration as quickly as possible. We also urge that you direct the federal agencies to maximize opportunities for expedited water transfers, assist with infrastructure improvements, and exercise their discretion in regulatory decision-making within the confines of the law to deliver more water to those whose health and livelihoods depend on it. Thank you for your continued efforts to work with us on solving California’s water challenges. We look forward to your timely response to our request.
01.14.2014	Bill Strengthens Community-Based Poverty Reduction Efforts Washington, DC- Reps. Mike Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Betty McCollum (D-MN), and Jim Costa (D-CA) introduced bipartisan legislation that will reauthorize the Community Service Block Grant (CSBG) program and modernize local efforts to reduce poverty and economic insecurity. The Community Services Block Grant Act (H.R. 3854) encourages innovative, community-based solutions to address the local challenges and spur economic development. CSBG funds support nearly 1100 nonprofit Community Action Agencies that are tasked with a wide-ranging mission of obtaining equal opportunity and building self-sufficiency for those in underserved communities. Congressman Costa (CA-16) said,“Every community faces its own challenges and needs its own local solutions that empower our nation’s greatest asset, its people. My district is home to one of the nation’s largest Community Action Agencies, the Fresno Economic Opportunity Commission, which has been investing in the people of the Valley since 1965. This bill and CSBG encourage innovative, coordinated efforts that improve economic opportunities for families, seniors, and communities as a whole.” CongressmanFitzpatrick (PA-8) said, “Tackling poverty and increasing access to the American dream starts at the local level. The introduction of the Community Service Block Grant Act is a step in the right direction when it comes to refocusing our anti-poverty efforts in the communities that need it most, and getting support to the local leaders who know how best to put those funds to work. I’m encouraged this measure has strong bipartisan support, because efforts to strengthen families, increase self-sufficiency and address local needs shouldn’t be a matter of politics.” “Community action agencies have been one of our country’s greatest assets in the war on poverty,” added Congresswoman McCollum (MN-04). “Serving about 16 million low-income individuals each year, these agencies provide access to critical services such as job training, nutrition support, financial counseling, and early education. By empowering communities to make choices on a local level about how to best serve their families, each community is able to invest in the support services they want and need. This reauthorization builds on the successes of agencies in Minnesota and throughout United States, but also includes needed reforms to ensure federal dollars are being spent effectively. I am proud to lead the push for reauthorizing these critical federal funds and will do everything I can to ensure passage of this legislation.” David Bradley, co-founder and CEO of National Community Action Foundation, the nonprofit advocacy organization for Community Action Agencies, added "This bill doesn't just reinvest in the best of the War on Poverty and improve accountability in crucial community programs, but it also sparks innovation and strengthens local control, which are invaluable developments. The leadership of Congresswoman Betty McCollum, Congressman Mike Fitzpatrick and Congressman Jim Costa proves that poverty can be a bi-partisan issue. Their willingness to reach across the aisle and really help their neighbors in this day and age of gridlock will not be forgotten. These members have earned their communities' gratitude."
01.08.2014	Washington, DC— Rep. Jim Costa voted today in favor of legislation to reauthorize funding for poison prevention and poison control centers, includingthe Madera poisoncenter located at Children's Hospital Central California. The 12 doctors of pharmacy employed at the Children’s Hospital site provide expert advice over the phone to families regarding exposure to potentially toxic substances. The bill, H.R. 3527 – Poison Center Network Act, now moves to the Senate for further consideration. “When it comes to exposure to poison, quick access to expert advice saves lives,” said Costa. “During an emergency, the professionals at Children’s Hospital provide critical, free-of-charge information to California families. This bill continues our commitment to improve operations and efficiency at these centers and educate the public about this valuable resource.” Residents throughout the state can access free advice through a single 800 number 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The Madera call center is one of four cites in the California Poison Control System that is staffed by experienced professionals who field statewide calls. By calling 1-800-222-1222, you can access emergency information on: Swallowing poison Eye or skin irritation from toxic substances Inhalation of noxious fumes or vapors Animal, insect, snake and spider bites Food or mushroom poisoning Drug reactions Attempted suicides or drug overdoses
12.18.2013	FRESNO, CA— Rep. Jim Costa released the following statement in response to news that Azerbaijani troops had killed an Armenian soldier, Hrant Poghosyan, along the border of Nagorno-Karabakh. “I am appalled to learn of yet another murder of an Armenian solider in an unprovoked attack by Azerbaijani troops against Armenian forces,” said Costa. “This tragic bloodshed follows the Azerbaijani government’s heroic treatment of Ramil Safarov – the Azerbaijani military officer who savagely killed an Armenian solider. Azerbaijan, its military, and the perpetrator of this heinous crime must be held accountable for their actions and brought to justice.”
12.17.2013	FRESNO, CA—Rep. Jim Costa cheered the Brown Administration and California Department of Water Resources’ (DWR) decision to mobilize additional drought management resources and appoint an individual tasked with monitoring ongoing drought conditions and prioritizing and coordinating the state and federal agencies responses. Though the hardship from these conditions will be felt state-wide, the farm communities in the San Joaquin Valley will be the hardest hit by the water shortages that will jeopardize agriculture jobs throughout the region. This announcement also puts a focus on easing water transfers, which will be a key tool to quickly assist drought management that Costa has advocated for in this and previous years. “Waiting to prepare for the challenges of 2014 is not and was never an option,” said Costa. “While we still need a formal drought declaration, the Brown Administration heard our call for swift action and is taking steps that are in the best interest of our entire state. Thisis a first, but important, step in putting the pieces together for a coordinated, comprehensive response to looming drought conditions. I know Governor Brown shares our concerns for both the short-term and long-term water challenges California is facing.” Last week, Costa and Feinstein stressed in a letterthat low storage levels will leave the state with fewer options to adapt to next year’s dry conditions and drought declarations in previous years have helped ease the pain. In 2008 and 2009, Governor Schwarzenegger declared states of emergency and authorized additional drought relief activities. They are calling on Governor Brown to take similar action that builds on the lessons learned from those difficult years.
12.10.2013	WASHINGTON, DC—Co-Chairs of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus, Reps. Jim Costa and Ted Poe, introduced the reauthorization of the Victims of Child Abuse Act (VOCCA) that will improve accountability and extend the program for 5 years. The act provides funding to the National Children’s Alliance, local Children’s Advocacy Centers (CACs), and four Regional Children’s Advocacy Center programs. These centers and programs help expedite prosecution of offenders, reduce violent encounters, and improve safety in communities across the country. “When one in four girls and one in six boys will be sexually abused before they turn 18, this issue, which impacts every neighborhood, every school, and every community across the country, deserves action and continued vigilance,” said Rep. Costa.“Supporting victims of child abuse takes a comprehensive approach that meets the needs of the childwhile also gathering all the information necessary for a successful prosecution. We have come a long way in our effort to combat child abuse, but our job is nowhere near finished.” “It is an unfortunate and unacceptable fact that thousands of children are victims of the despicable crime of child abuse in this country every year,” said Rep. Poe. “Through this piece of legislation, Congress ensures that those who are advocating for and protecting our children have the resources they need. We must do all we can to protect innocent children and make sure their needs are met so they can go on to live happy, productive lives.” Funds from the act go directly to local Children’s Advocacy Centers (CACs) that are public-private partnerships aimed at bringing together local law enforcement, prosecutors, child protective services, and medical professionals involved in investigating cases of child abuse. In 2000, the program helped 100,539 children and has grown to 286,000 children served in 2012. For 15 years, the Fresno Council on Child Abuse Prevention (FCCAP) has operated the only National Children’s Alliance (NCA) certified Child Advocacy Center (CAC) in Fresno County. Esther Franco, FCCAP Executive Directoradded, “For 15 years, we have been working to offer child-friendly and prevention-focused services in Fresno County. Funding from VOCAA has given us the tools to improve our forensic interviews that help lead to the efficient prosecution of offenders and strengthen coordinated, multi-disciplinary efforts that meet the special needs of Fresno County. Sexual abuse can be difficult to detect, but we are making great strides in caring for the youngest victims here in the Valley partially thanks to the support we receive from VOCAA.” The Community Action Partnership of Madera County (CAPMC) offers similar coordinated services in Madera County and also receives support from VOCCA. CAPMC Program Manager Tina Figueroa-Rodriguez added, “The Victims of Child Abuse Act sets a standard for child advocacy centers to comply with which places child abuse victims as a top priority for best care. We see the difference that the Victims of Child Abuse Act makes in the lives of the families that we serve.” As co-chairmen and co-founders of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus, Costa and Poe have been leaders in bringing the issue of crime victims’ rights to the forefront in Congress. The mission of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus is to elevate crime victim issues in Congress in a bipartisan manner without infringing on the rights of the accused and to represent and to advocate before the Administration and within Congress on behalf of crime victims.
12.03.2013	Washington, DC—Rep. Jim Costa announced his second annual holiday card drive for active duty military and Valley veterans. Costa invites residents of the 16th Congressional District to show our appreciation to those who serve and those who have served this holiday season. Working with the American Red Cross, the cards will be delivered to members of the military recovering from injuries while in the line duty at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center and local veterans receiving care at the Fresno VA Medical Center. “This holiday season we take time to show gratitude for our many blessings and to those whose sacrifices keep us safe,” said Costa. “Many of our veterans and troops will be away from their families and friends as they work on their recovery, but a small gesture can remind them that they are in our thoughts and prayers. As we enter the busy holiday season, please consider taking a moment to get involved and show your appreciation.” Constituents are encouraged to drop cards off at Costa’s Fresno or Merced district offices by December 20, 2013. If mailing cards, please place them in a separate envelope and send to: Congressman Jim Costa “Holiday Cards for our Troops” 855 M St, Suite 940 Fresno, CA 93721 All cards should be unaddressed, signed, and placed in unsealed envelopes. Please refrain from purchasing or making cards that include glitter as they can aggravate health issues of ill or injured soldiers. The cards will be delivered in coordination with the American Red Cross and the Fresno VA Medical Center on behalf of the people of California’s 16th Congressional District. For more information, please contact Rep. Costa’s office at 559-495-1620 or 209-384-1620.
11.15.2013	Washington, DC. (November 15th, 2013)-Jim Costa (D-CA), Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Reps. Peter Welch (D-VT), and Steve Womack (R-AR), authors of the Renewable Fuel Standard Reform Act (H.R. 1462), reacted this afternoon to the Environmental Protection Agency’s decision to reduce the amount of ethanol blended into fuel in 2014. These same Members led an October letter signed by 169 House colleagues urging the EPA to adjust ethanol levels. “EPA has finally realized that it was time to step back and stop gambling our food and energy security on a broken policy. The Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) was well-intentioned, but this flawed policy needed to be brought back into balance,” said Costa. “There is still more that needs to be done to restore stability to our energy and ethanol policies, but this is the good-faith effort we needed to continue the conversation about the future of the RFS.” “While the EPA’s slight reduction of the RFS for 2014 acknowledges that the mandate is unworkable, it is not enough to provide the much-needed relief businesses, farmers, and consumers need,’ said Goodlatte. “Today’s announcement makes it even clearer that it will now be up to Congress to fix this broken mandate. There is a growing appetite in Congress to reform the ethanol mandate, and I urge Chairman Upton and the House Energy and Commerce Committee to consider the RFS Reform Act (H.R. 1462) as a legislative fix to the growing problems with the RFS.” “Today’s announcement is welcome news and a call to action for Congress to move forward with much needed ethanol policy reform. While well-intentioned, the federal ethanol mandate is inflicting significant economic harm on families by driving up food prices, on dairy farmers by driving up feed prices, and on homeowners and outdoorsmen by ruining small engines,” Rep. Welch said. “The EPA’s decision to lower the fuel standard is a clear sign that this law isn’t working. Congress should get about the business of overhauling this misguided policy before more harm is done.” “Today’s decision by the EPA is a step in the right direction that acknowledges that the RFS isn’t working, but it’s not enough,” said Womack. “The RFS is a weight on our economy, and Congress must make fundamental ethanol policy reforms, which provide a long-term solution to this problem and do more to protect American consumers and businesses.” The Renewable Fuel Standard Reform Act would repeal the corn ethanol mandate; cap ethanol use at 10% (E10); and preserve the mandate for the fledgling cellulosic biofuels industry.
10.28.2013	Washington, DC—Rep. Jim Costa supported legislation that will put the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) backon track in delivering former service members the benefits they have earned. The last 6 months have shown great progress with the backlog at VA being reduced by 30 percent, but there still are more than 400,000 overdue cases awaiting review at the Department and Costa’s office works with many of these veterans daily. The House overwhelmingly approved bipartisan, comprehensive legislation to address the backlog at VA with a vote of 404-1. “When our veterans return from active duty, their service ends, but our commitment to them never does,” said Costa. “For too long, many of them have seen the benefits they earned swept up in bureaucratic delays while their medical conditions may continue to progress. Tonight, I stood with my colleagues to remove the red tape that can stand between them and their benefits and to move us closer to meeting our end of that sacred promise.” Costa was an original co-sponsor of a measure to expedite payment to veterans and remove barriers that prevent delivery of benefits. The commonsense bill would have allowed veterans filing multiple claims to receive compensation as VA adjudicates individual claims rather than waiting until all of their claims have been processed to receive any compensation. The legislation Costa sponsored was included in broader legislation that cleared the House with overwhelming bipartisan support this evening. The Senate must act on the legislation before the President can sign it into law. In February, Costa met with Undersecretary for Benefits Brig. General Allison Hickey to discuss the backlog at the Oakland Regional Office. This is where the majority of claims for Valley Veterans are processed and more than 55 percent of cases there are currently backlogged. In that meeting, Hickey reported that additional employees and new technology was being employed to address the backlog. Since then, the percentage of cases pending by more than 125 days has dropped significantly.
10.21.2013	Washington, DC—Rep. Jim Costa joined with Hmong veterans to announce that he will introduce legislation this week that would recognize the service and sacrifices of Hmong veterans in the Valley and nationwide. Costa is joined by Vietnam veteran Rep. Paul Cook (R-CA) in introducing the Hmong Veterans’ Service Recognition Act, which would extend burial benefits in national cemeteries to Hmong and Lao Americans who served beside U.S. Armed Forces during theVietnam War. “Serving side-by-side with U.S. troops during Vietnam, Hmong veterans have earned the right to rest in peace beside their brothers in arms,” said Costa. “Long before they were citizens of this country, they put themselves in harm’s way to protect and defend American ideals and interests. Granting them burial benefits recognizes their patriotic service and demonstrates our nation’s deep gratitude for their heroic actions.” Hmong men from Laos were trained and led by officers from the CIA’s Special Activities Division during the Vietnam War. Tens of thousands of these men performed direct missions against Communist forces and North Vietnamese supporters. Following the war, thousands of Hmong Veterans resettled across the United States and in the Valley. In 2000, President Clinton signed the Hmong Veterans Naturalization Act, which allowed Hmong veterans and their families to become U.S. citizens. Rep. Paul Cook added, “I’m pleased to co-sponsor the Hmong Veterans’ Service Recognition Act. As a Vietnam Veteran, I know that these Hmong veterans were our strongest ally while the U.S. fought a deadly fight against communism. These brave men and women had to leave their country following the war because of their standing with America and have since become U.S. citizens. It is only right that we give these U.S. citizens who fought alongside us so bravely the right to rest as heroes in our national cemeteries.” Currently burial benefits are available to veterans and members of the U.S. Armed Services, their spouses and dependents, Reserve Officers, Public Health Service Officers, Merchant Mariners from World War II, and the Philippine Armed Forces. This legislation would add veterans who were naturalized under the Hmong Veterans Naturalization Act to the list of individuals eligible for interment at a national cemetery. It is estimated that there are still 6,000 Hmong veteransliving in the United States today. Rep. Dina Titus (D-NV) said, “Those who bravely serve our country deserve the honor of being laid to rest in national cemeteries. As Ranking Member of the Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs Subcommittee, I applaud my colleague Mr. Costa for introducing this legislation to extend proper interment services to Hmong and Lao veterans who served alongside U.S. Forces during the Vietnam War. I am proud to be an original cosponsor, and hope we can quickly move it through our Subcommittee.” Costa has long championed this cause and momentum is growing as a bipartisan coalition of high-ranking members on the Veterans Affairs Committee has formed in support of recognizing the service of Hmong Veterans. For the first time ever, companion legislation has also been introduced in the United States Senate by Lisa Murkowski (R-AK).
10.16.2013	For too long your government has been unnecessarily shutdown due to Congress’s inability to face simple facts and act like grownups. When we should be working to reopen your government and protect the full faith and credit of this nation, a lot of my colleagues have let “I’s” dominate the dialogue in Washington: inaction, irresponsible choices, and irrational logic. You expect and deserve better. For the last few years, we have jumped from one congressionally-created crisis to the next with no end in sight. Our economy and our families cannot afford for this cycle of uncertainty to continue. In my opinion, it’s the primary factor slowing our economic recovery. Yes, we have our political differences and divided government. If we are ever going to get things done, bipartisan political compromises must be the order of the day. We have had opportunities to get our fiscal house in order, but many of my friends in Congress have refused to make the hard choices necessary to do so. When it comes to solving all of our challenges, we must deal with the facts. And when considering our fiscal challenges, the fact is that the main driver of the debt is entitlement spending. It must be dealt with in a fiscally responsible way to keep the promise of this country for future generations, while still preserving the promises made to previous generations. Last March, we had the opportunity to vote on a balanced, bipartisan plan that would have restored long-term fiscal sanity to our federal budget. Only 37 of my colleagues in the House joined me in supporting this plan. This vote would have put in place the Simpson-Bowles Plan that was the result of almost 9 months of bipartisan talks about stabilizing our debt. Specifically, it would have cut the deficit by $4 trillion over 10 years and reformed the tax code to make it simpler and fairer for all Americans while also ensuring the solvency of Medicare and Social Security. I did not like every portion of this proposal, but it was a good faith compromise that directly addressed our long-term spending challenges. We had the opportunity to put our nation on the road to fiscal health, but yet again politics got in the way of common sense. So now we are once again watching uncertainty swirl around the Capitol and spread through our capital markets while our government remains closed and we approach the day when the government can no longer pay its obligations. This is simply unacceptable. Let me be clear, there is no question that failing to raise the debt ceiling would send our economy in a tailspin and cause our markets to come crashing down culminating in a recession or a possible world-wide depression. Anyone who says we should negotiate or gamble with the full faith and credit of our government is disconnected from reality. It is long past time for us to come together and break this cycle of uncertainty. Our economy is recovering, the housing market is coming back, and we are finally seeing jobs begin to return. We cannot afford to continue this game of high-stakes poker. These games hurt every American family in some way. We need to stop talking over each other and start talking to each other. There is common ground. But my Republican friends need to stop their tireless drumbeat to repeal the Affordable Care Act, which I agree could and should be improved. My Democratic friends also need to make clear that we are willing to negotiate these difficult issues. The path forward is not a Democratic or Republican solution; it is an American solution. I stand ready to take another tough vote that puts us on the road to fiscal stability. It is my hope that my colleagues are prepared to put their constituents first and do the same. This shutdown was senseless and avoidable. The idea of breaching the debt limit is pure insanity. It’s time for a moment of clarity that puts this nation first. It’s time to vote.
10.16.2013	Washington, DC—Rep. Jim Costa announced his support for the bipartisan Senate agreement that would reopen the government and prevent a financial crisis. “For too long our government has been closed for business while partisan bickering and inaction ruled the day,” said Costa. “Tonight, I will be voting to get government back to work and preserve the full faith and credit of the United States.” “The road ahead will not be easy as we again work towards a long-term deal that will hopefully shore up our finances and break this cycle of congressionally-created crises. Our economy, our families, and our political system cannot afford another set of small band-aid deals; now is the time to come together and go big. It is what the people of our Valley and our nation expect and deserve.” Costa, a member of the fiscally-conservative Blue Dog Coalition, has been a long-time advocate for restoring fiscal responsibility and accountability to the federal government. He has called on previous deficit reduction panels to keep all options for deficit reduction on the table, including spending cuts and revenue. Last March, Costa joined 37 colleagues in the House to support the Simpson-Bowles plan that would have stabilized the nation’s debt over the next 10 years.
10.12.2013	Washington, DC—Rep. Jim Costa was named to the conference committee that will meet with the U.S. Senate to negotiate final legislation that will reauthorize the nation’s agricultural and nutrition policies. The current Farm Bill extension expired on October 1st, and now the conference must move quickly to work out the differences between the two versions of the legislation. “Appointing conferees is a sign that Republican Leadership might finally be ready to play ball and get to work for Rural America,” said Costa. “In the 2008 Farm Bill, we had many victories for Valley agriculture that I will be fighting to protect. From expanding programs that support specialty crops to bringing our dairy industry greater stability to improving our farm’s risk management system, the Valley has much at stake in these negotiations.” “Now, we must move beyond the partisan battles over the programs that provide a critical lifeline to vulnerable seniors and children throughout our nation by maintaining our nutrition programs. It’s time to do what we traditionally have done with the Farm Bill, come together.” Congressman Costa serves as the Ranking Member on Subcommittee on Livestock, Rural Development, and Credit. He has been a strong advocate for passing a Farm Bill that will modernize the nation’s agriculture policies and provide certainty to Valley agriculture, the economic engine of the region. Raised on a dairy farm in the Kearney Park area, Costa is a third-generation family farmer.
10.04.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Jim Costa called on House Republicans to end the misguided government shutdown that is hurting Valley residents, the 144th Fighter Wing, visitors to our national parks, and our economy as a whole. Knowing that his constituents depend on and deserve assistance with federal agencies, Costa’s staff has been and will continue working without pay until the government gets back to work. When the government closed on October 1st, Costa immediately asked that his own pay also be withheld for the duration of the shutdown. “Families across this country are being forced to make sacrifices because of Congressional incompetence,” said Costa. “My staff and I are here working without pay until we end this budget impasse to serve you. The American people deserve better than this political posturing and brinksmanship.” Costa also has supported legislation in the last few days to guarantee on-time pay to active duty military and urged the Secretary of Defense to do the same for members of the military reserves, including those at the 144th. He has also supported legislation that would fully fund the Department of Veterans Affairs to guarantee our former service members have access to all the assistance and benefits they have earned. Costa still maintains that the only way forward is to reopen the entire government, and that it is past time to do that. He remains committed to working for a bipartisan solution that allows us to pass a budget and get government back to work. Thursday morning, Costa called on the House to follow the example of two Valley leaders who were true public servants and always put solutions before politics. The Valley recently said farewell to the Democrat and Republican who Costa described as widely respected and were known for never letting partisanship or ideology get in the way of solutions. “Both of these men put their community first. I worked with both George and Pete for years and they were not only my friends but they were friends of the Valley they loved and the state they were proud to call home, California. My colleagues, Mr. Speaker, I think it is time for all of us in this body to live up to the memory of these two shining examples.”
10.01.2013	Dear Friends, The United States Government is currently closed for business due to Congress’s inability to come together to pass a stopgap spending measure before the end of the fiscal year. However, I want to make you aware that my Fresno, Merced, and Washington Offices will remain open for the duration of the shutdown. Government services that are essential to protect life and property will also remain open. If you are having difficulty reaching a government agency during the shutdown, please contact my office. As always, we can help you understand your rights and responsibilities and help you work through a problem you may have with a federal agency. Whether it's the IRS, Social Security Administration, or any other federal agency, my office is here and will always be here to help. Please contact my office by phone at (559) 495-1620 for my Fresno District Office, (209) 384-1620 for my Merced Office, or (202) 225-3341 for my Washington Office. You can also let me know your thoughts or request assistance by sending my office an email. It is my hope that we can find a resolution to this budget impasse quickly. The American people deserve better than this from Washington. Sincerely, Jim Costa Member of Congress
09.29.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Jim Costa blasted House Republican Leadership for their latest political stunt that further endangers the American economy and will likely lead to a government shutdown beginning late Monday night. The House approved partisan legislation that has no chance of clearing the Senate when they meet Monday afternoon to consider stopgap spending measure. Every day that the government is shutdown will cost taxpayers a projected $150 million. “In this town, many are talking dollars but very few are talking sense,” said Costa. “Republicans took the low road that will likely lead to a government shutdown at midnight Monday. This situation was completely avoidable, but it looks nearly inevitable at this point.” President Obama has already threatened to veto the measure that included a one year delay in implementation of the individual mandate for the Affordable Care Act. The Senate will not meet until Monday to consider yet another version of stopgap legislation that must then win approval in the House before midnight. “This is no time to play games, but that is exactly what happened today. If we go into a government shutdown, it will cost the tax payers $150 million each day and limit the American people’s access to services they expect and deserve. The clock is ticking and few answers seem in sight.” What Could a Shutdown Mean? Water agency efforts led by Costa to work with the Bureau of Reclamation in order to bring additional operational flexibility and more water to our Valley would be put on hold. The more than 92,000 Social Security recipients in the 16th District could see a delay in processing of their benefits and suspension of customer service assistance. Note: Benefits were still delivered during the last government shutdown in 1995. An estimated 800,000 federal employees nationwide will go on furlough. The 16th District is home to more than 17,000 federal employees. Valley veterans who are already facing a critical backlog in processing claims could face even further disruption in accessing the benefits they earned. Small businesses would stop receiving loans to expand their operations and hire new employees. In 2011, the Small Business Administration guaranteed more than 1,000 loans per week, which is an activity that would be suspended during a shutdown. Yosemite and other national parks will be closed to the public impacting local communities and businesses that offer services to visitors.
09.27.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Jim Costa announced that an investment of $600,000 is headed to the Valley to expand business opportunities for low- to moderate-income entrepreneurs. The grant to Fresno Community Development Financial Institution was awarded through the U.S. Department of Treasury’s CDFI fund for lending and operations. “Assistance from Fresno CDFI is often the difference between some entrepreneurs seeing their name on the door of their business and never fulfilling their small business dream,” said Costa. “These funds will help create or retain more than 100 local jobs and leverage an additional $1 million in investments. This is a smart, fiscally responsible program that expands economic opportunities in our Valley.” In addition to lending services, Fresno CDFI will use the funds for business development services including technical assistance and training to a total of 130 entrepreneurs. They will also conduct 25 workshops for 250 small business owners. Edward Escalante, All Season AC & Heating, received a CDFI loan in 2010 when lending from traditional financial institutions was at an all time low. The loan from Fresno CDFI allowed Escalante to survive the worst of the economic recession, and he has since expanded his customer base three-fold. Escalante said, “We were just a number to the big banks. When I came to Fresno CDFI, I knew at that first meeting that my loan officer was looking beyond the numbers, looking at me as a dedicated business owner wanting to rebuild.” Since 2008, Fresno CDFI has been providing financing, training, and other assistance for low to moderate income entrepreneurs in the Valley. Their services include micro-finance, credit counseling, business plan development, and beyond.
09.26.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Jim Costa announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture has awarded California more than $18.2 million to improve competitiveness and strengthen the market for specialty crops. The funds were provided by the Specialty Crop Block Grant program, which Costa fought hard to expand in the 2008 Farm Bill and was a key advocate for the additional investment of $375 million provided in the 2013 House version of the Farm Bill that is pending a conference committee with the Senate. The current Farm Bill extension and authorization for many of the nation’s agricultural policies will lapse without action before October 1st. “This and other Farm Bill programs help our Valley farmers produce the healthy, safe fruits and vegetables that families nationwide depend on,” said Costa. “Instead of reauthorizing the Farm Bill before October 1st, Republican Leadership has turned its back on our Valley farmers, farm workers, and economy. Traditionally, the Farm Bill has been bipartisan because these programs work for Rural America, but this lifeline will lapse if we cannot put politics aside to finish the job quickly.” The Specialty Crop Block Grant Program will fund 65 programs throughout California. Funded projects include improving efficiency and reduce cost of production and distribution; controlling pests and disease; expanding access to healthy foods for low-income individuals and children; increasing use of sustainable agricultural practices; and implementing food safety protocols. Examples of projects funded in California below: Partner with Fresno’s Center for International Trade Development to increase the level of export knowledge of the California specialty crop industry by modernizing curriculum with agricultural industry cooperators, and producing a new specialty crop oriented “A Business of Details” export training video and workbook to be distributed by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, California agricultural cooperators, and specialty commodity groups. Partner with the University of California, Davis Center for Produce Safety (CPS) to increase the number of food safety professionals and growers utilizing the risk-based sample collection protocol to minimize of crop contamination by foodborne bacteria. Partner with the Community Alliance with Family Farmers to support California specialty crop growers by creating a California Farm to School Network that foster efficient regional distribution efforts between growers, distributors and school districts. Partner with the American Pistachio Growers in collaboration with the California Dried Plum Board to enhance the market for pistachios and prunes in Japan and South Korea.
09.18.2013	WASHINGTON, DC. – Rep. Jim Costa announced that the U.S. Department of Justice Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) has released more than $820,000 for the hire of four additional law enforcement officers. The funds are sent directly to law enforcement agencies to help hire or rehire law enforcement officials to improve local safety efforts. In the 16th Congressional District, Atwater, Dos Palos, Gustine, and Madera all received funds to hire an additional officer. “For years, our Valley cities have been faced with fiscal challenges that have forced them to make painful budget decisions,” said Costa. “These grants give them the flexibility needed to build and maintain their police departments so they can keep our communities safe. COPS is a critical lifeline to local law enforcement, and I will continue to fight for funding this program.” COPS Hiring Program grants cover 75 percent of the salaries and benefits for hiring new full-time officers or rehiring officers who have been laid off due to local budget cuts over a period of 3 years. Atwater received a waiver for their local match due to the community’s demonstration of a commitment to fund first responders by passing a unique public safety sales tax. Atwater City Manager and Police Chief Frank Pietro said, “We have had a great partnership for many years with the COPS program. This grant will help put us back in the black and keep the Atwater community safe. Thanks to Rep. Costa for all his hard work; I don’t think we could have received this grant without him.” In California, 39 local law enforcement agencies received COPS program funding to protect or create a total of 105 different public safety jobs across the state. Local agencies received the following funds: Atwater- $369,931 Dos Palos- $123,368 Gustine - $202,489 Madera - $125,000 City Administrator for Madera David Tooley commented, “The City of Madera will utilize COPS funds to pay for an officer position in the Police Department Task Force. The task force focuses on working with allied agencies – Madera County Probation, the City of Chowchilla Police Department, the District Attorney’s office, the California Highway Patrol and, the Madera County Sheriff’s office – in finding long term solution to gang problems.” Agencies that requested funds to fund school resource officers, commit to hiring veterans, and/or focused on homicide or gun violence prevention received priority consideration for funding. Gustine Police Department plans to partially use the grant to improve their community outreach efforts. Gustine Police Chief Doug Dunford said, “I’d like to thank Rep. Costa for his help that was instrumental in Gustine receiving this grant. It will help us reach out to build the force and do what we need to do to keep our community safe. We also will be able to provide more outreach programs to the community.” Dos Palos Police Chief Barry Mann added, “By funding a school resource officer, we will be able to enhance and continue our partnership with the school district. When our school district took a budget hit, the city stepped in to provide this important resource, but we were paying for it all on our own. This grant offers relief to our bottom line and allows us to keep our commitments to our community.”
09.17.2013	WASHINGTON, DC. – Rep. Jim Costa announced the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has awarded $300,000 to the Livingston Community Health Services and the Central Valley Collaborative to train students for high-skill, good-paying jobs in health information technology. This innovative program will help meet the growing need for qualified health information technology technicians in the Valley. The grant is part of a three year program to create a curriculum and implement the training program. “Increasing the number of qualified medical professionals lays the groundwork for a healthier future in the Valley,” said Rep. Costa. “This training program will ensure that students are career ready for high-demand positions that help save time and money in our health care system. I’m proud that Livingston Community Health is taking the lead in this innovative effort.” Livingston Community Health’s CEO Leslie McGowan said, “Electronic health records are improving patient care and patient outcomes, but we need a highly skilled workforce to make the most of this important tool. We here at Livingston Community Health are excited to take be an integral part of this effort to produce the Valley’s next generation of medical professionals.” Between 2010 and 2020, it is projected that there will be 19% job growth in Health Information Technology throughout the state. The program will prepare students for these new positions and will be open to individuals in Merced, Stanislaus, Fresno, Tulare, Kern, Kings, and San Luis Obispo counties. Livingston Community Health will operate the program in conjunction with the Central Valley Collaborative (CVC). Central Valley Collaborative Executive Director Ray Parris added, “The competition for skilled workers has challenged our implementation of Health Information Technology (HIT). This program is an exciting opportunity to develop HIT professionals with roots in our rural communities.” The program will federally certify graduates for positions as Practice Workflow and Information Management Redesign Specialists, Implementation Support Specialists, and Trainers. Students will be prepared for these roles through a 12 month training program that will include: A sixth month online-curriculum taught with proposed program partner Fresno City College. Hands-on training on Electronic Health Records software provided by Central Valley Collaborative trainers. A five month apprenticeship opportunity where students would get to work in one of 26 eligible rural clinic locations throughout Central California. Beginning in September 2013 until early 2014, CVC will begin recruiting local health care workers, community college students, veterans, and individuals with information technology, education, and health care experience and ambitions who hope to stay in the area for the training program.
09.06.2013	FRESNO, CA – As a long time advocate for downtown Fresno, Rep. Jim Costa cheered the U.S. Department of Transportation’s decision to invest $16 million in the Fulton Mall project that will improve economic opportunities and create jobs in the heart of Fresno. Joining U.S. Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx in Fresno for the official announcement, Costa called the Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) discretionary grant a “game changer” for downtown. “Investing in Fulton Mall sends a clear signal that Downtown Fresno is open for business,” said Costa. “I’d like to thank Secretary Foxx for believing in Downtown Fresno. This is the game changer that puts us on track to start construction and move forward with revitalizing the heart of Fresno. Many people have worked for years to see that this becomes a reality, and this award is validation that we are on the right track for downtown.” As a resident of downtown Fresno, Congressman Costa has long been at the helm of revitalization efforts. 30 years ago when he first ran for office, Costa promised to live in downtown and keep his office in the heart of Fresno. 30 years later, he continues to keep that promise. Beyond his personal commitment to the area, Rep. Costa helped form the downtown task force that was the precursor to the Downtown Fresno Partnership during his days in the state legislature and has advocated for federal investment to improve public transit downtown. "These TIGER projects are the best argument you can make for investment in our transportation infrastructure," said Secretary Foxx. "The Fulton Mall reconstruction project will revitalize Fresno's downtown business district, increase local economic activity and improve transportation options for residents." To make the case for the Fulton Mall TIGER Grant, Costa worked closely with California Senators Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer to urge the U.S. Department of Transportation to see the impact the grant would have for downtown and the city as a whole. Sen. Dianne Feinstein said, “I am very pleased with Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx’s decision to award a TIGER grant to Fresno for redevelopment of the Fulton Mall. I’ve worked in partnership with Mayor Swearingen for several years to secure federal funding and necessary permits for this important project that will help jumpstart much-needed economic development in the heart of Fresno. The Fulton Mall reconstruction—which will transform the dated pedestrian mall into a pedestrian-friendly avenue in the city's urban core—will play a key role in the revitalization of downtown Fresno.” Senator Barbara Boxer added, “Since the early 1990’s, I have worked hard to see that the federal government is a full partner in Fresno’s downtown revitalization. We have seen approximately 4,000 new federal employees come to downtown since then, and this grant will add to that effort. I applaud the Obama administration’s commitment to Fresno.” This TIGER grant announcement is part of a national effortto highlight the transformative power of transportation investments in local economies. The Fresno project will be funded by a partnership between local, state, and federal governments.
09.05.2013	Fresno, CA – Rep. Jim Costa announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded $3.6 million to Fresno Yosemite International Airport and more than $660,000 to Merced’s Castle Airport. The grant to Fresno will fund completion of the final phase of runway safety improvements and extension at the airport. Merced County will use the funds for construction of a new taxiway that will enable aircraft to exit the runway more efficiently and improve safety at Castle. “Modernizing our facilities at Fresno Yosemite and Castle Airport helps us keep pace with the demands of growing traffic in our Valley,” said Costa. “As more families and businesses than ever depend on our local airports, investments such as this come at a critical time. This award will create jobs in the short term while also increasing passenger and airline capacity in the future.” Costa has long supported policies that maintain safety at the nation’s airports. In May, he supported legislation that allowed the FAA to end budget-related furloughs and reverse previous decisions to discontinue critical services, such as the overnight shift at Fresno Yosemite Airport and air traffic control operations at Castle Airport. ###
09.03.2013	FRESNO, CA – At the invitation of Congressman Jim Costa, India's Ambassador Nirupama Rao visited Fresno from August 29-30 and met with a wide cross-section of the Indian-American community, academia and civil society in the San Joaquin Valley. “Relations between the United States and India are better than ever, and it was a privilege to host Ambassador Rao in our Valley,” said Costa. “Our common bonds and shared goals create an opportunity to greatly improve the lives of the people in both of our nations. Thank you to my friend, Ambassador Rao, for joining us and her continued work to strengthen U.S.-Indian relations.” Congressman Costa expressed confidence in the future of U.S.-India economic and business ties and praised the role of the Indian-American community in bringing the two nations closer. He recalled his close association with Ambassador Rao over the last few years and thanked the Ambassador for her support and championing of the U.S.-India partnership. Costa added, “Perhaps the best export that India has made to our country over the last century is the Indian immigrants that have come to America and become citizens. They are doctors, farmers, and business people from every walk of life who are all contributing to our Valley and our nation in so many different ways.” Addressing to a group of faculty and students at the Fresno City College on August 29th and the Fresno State University on August 30th, Ambassador Rao discussed India's socio-economic and developmental goals and aspirations. She also pointed to cooperation between India and the United States in a vast array of sectors like education, energy, agriculture, health, science, and technology as the basis for strong relations. Noting the vast contributions of the Indian-American community to Fresno's agricultural success, she said that human development and closer people-to-people relations were at the heart of India-U.S. relations. Ambassador Rao thanked Congressman Costa for his support to the Indian-American community, and called him a true believer and passionate advocate for improving the strategic partnership between India and the United States. During the visit, Congressman Costa joined Ambassador Rao at a ceremony before the statue of Mahatma Gandhi at the Fresno State University's Peace Garden that included the university President Joseph Castro, members of faculty, and students. The two also attended a welcome reception hosted by the Indian-American community leaders in Fresno. Congressman Costa is an active member of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian-Americans. Costa also visited India in 2009 and 2013 for meetings regarding regional security challenges and opportunities for economic growth on both sides of the Pacific.
08.28.2013	Fresno, CA – Rep. Jim Costa released the following statement in honor of the 50th Anniversary of the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom, where Dr. Martin Luther King delivered his historic “I Have a Dream Speech”. “Today, we reflect not only on how far we have come, but remember that the struggle against social and economic inequality continues. It was not over when King stood at the Lincoln Memorial and inspired us to live up to our nation’s ideals. The fight did not end at Birmingham or when nine brave students walked through the doors of Central High School. Long after the sun set on Freedom Summer and President Johnson signed the Voting Rights Act, we still have more to do to form the more perfect union that President Lincoln described years before King.” “Far too many give and have given too much for us to ever be complacent. We continue our march on the path toward true equality.”
08.05.2013	Fresno, CA – Rep. Jim Costa pointed to a California Natural Resources Agency report released today as another sign that the Bay Delta Conservation Plan (BDCP) is the best path forward to meet the needs of California’s growing population. The report stated that completion of the BDCP would lead to net benefits of between $4.8 billion to $5.4 billion statewide and more than 500,000 jobs due to enhanced water reliability. “We already knew that failing to act on solutions to our water challenges costs California dearly each year but now the long-term economic case for finishing the Bay Delta Conservation Plan is before us,” said Costa. “We have a clear choice between continuing senseless delays and gambling our economy away or charting a path forward that can help bring prosperity to all Californians. The price of inaction means that the Delta ecosystem will continue to decline along with its fisheries and the lack of water for our Valley and Southern California will continue to create economic uncertainty. It is past time to complete the BDCP and invest in our states water infrastructure.” Costa has long supported the completion of the BDCP to restore balance and health to California’s broken water system. The plan would help meet long-term water needs of the San Joaquin Valley, the Silicon Valley and Southern California and restore the health of the Bay Delta. For more information about the Bay Delta Conservation Plan, please visit https://baydeltaconservationplan.com.
08.02.2013	Washington, DC-Rep. Jim Costa applauded the U.S. Department of Justice’s decision to add Sikh to the categories they track for hate crime offenses in the United States. For more than a year, Costa has been calling for the Department to include these crimes in their annual Uniform Crime Reporting (UCR) program. The announcement coincides with the one year anniversary of the tragedy at a Sikh Temple in Oak Creek, Wisconsin, on Monday, August 5th. “Since 9/11, the Sikh community has endured discrimination because of the lack of understanding about the positive force that Sikhism is nationwide,” said Costa. “This decision officially gives these acts the name that they deserve: hate crime.” “We cannot undo the pain that this community has already experienced, but thisdecision honors the memory of those who lost their lives. Every American citizen regardless of race, creed, or gender has the right to live free of fear and with the guarantee of equal protection under the law.” The Department of Justice also announced that they will begin tracking hate crimes against Hindu, Arab, Buddhist, Mormon, Jehovah’s Witness and Orthodox Christian individuals. This information helps the Department to better enforce the law and offer critical protections to all who live in this country.
08.02.2013	Washington, DC- Last night the Senate approved legislation to put the nation’s waterways to work producing clean, affordable energy at no cost to taxpayers. Costa joined Rep. Scott Tipton (R-CO) in sponsoring H.R. 678, the Hydropower Development and Rural Jobs Act. Specifically, the bill streamlines the path for development of small hydropower projects on existing Bureau of Reclamation projects creating rural jobs and modernizing the nation’s water infrastructure. It is now headed to the President’s desk to be signed into law. “Strengthening our energy portfolio starts with taking commonsense actions to fully utilize what we already have,” said Costa. “Every day, water flows thousands of miles across this nation in canals, pipelines, and ditches, but because of regulatory barriers we miss opportunities to maximize its potential. My bill empowers rural communities to create jobs and generate clean, renewable energy.” H.R. 678 would empower local water agencies and irrigation districts to develop small conduit hydropower that would stimulate rural economies and reduce the pumping costs local farmers face each year. The Hydropower Development and Rural Jobs Act has been endorsed by American Rivers, the Family Farm Alliance, the National Water Resources Association, and the American Public Power Association, among others.
08.01.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Reps. Jim Costa (D-CA), Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Steve Womack (R-AR), and Peter Welch (D-VT) sent a letter today to House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton and Ranking Member Henry Waxman urging the Committee to consider H.R. 1462, the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) Reform Act, as a vehicle to achieve meaningful reform to the RFS. They released the following statement: “Rising food and commodity prices, disruptions in the nation’s energy markets, and the failure of the Environmental Protection Agency to use flexibility granted in the law have made it clear that Congress must act toreform the RFS. We are appreciative of the Committee’s ongoing efforts to review this policy. As the focus transitions from review to legislative reform, we urge Chairman Upton and Ranking Member Waxman to consider the RFS Reform Act. This legislation has already garnered the support of more than 40 diverse organizations as well as 43 bipartisan Members of the House. We stand ready to work with the Energy and Commerce Committee, as well as the growing coalition supporting these efforts, to achieve meaningful reform of the RFS and provide relief from this broken policy.” A PDF copy of the letter is available here. The full text is below: Dear Chairman Upton and Ranking Member Waxman: The Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) is a policy that was created with good intentions but has since resulted in a number of unintended and negative consequences. We have been pleased that, under your direction, the Energy and Commerce Committee has begun to review the effects of the RFS on our economy and to our nation’s energy markets. Many of the negative effects of the RFS have been highlighted in both the Committee’s White Paper process and in the hearings before the Subcommittee on Energy and Power. Many of these are concerns that we have been highlighting to our colleagues in Congress for several years. Since the expansion of the RFS in 2007, U.S. corn prices have consistently risen, and the corn market has grown increasingly volatile. This reflects the reality that over 40 percent of the corn crop now goes towards ethanol production, a dramatic rise since the first ethanol mandates were put into place in 2005. One of the most visible consequences of the ethanol mandate is the steep increase in the price of corn. This is partially due to increased food and feed stocks being diverted to ethanol production. The higher cost for corn is passed on to livestock and food producers. As the ethanol mandate pushes more farmers to reallocate more land to corn production, and away from other crop production, we have also seen the prices for other agricultural commodities rise. In turn, consumers then see that price reflected in the price of food on the grocery store shelves and in restaurants. This year, the U.S. is expected to hit the blend wall – where the ethanol mandate will require more ethanol be produced than can be safely blended into gasoline. In order to address the blend wall the EPA is working to push E15. EPA has granted partial a waiver to allow E15 blends for model cars 2001 and newer. This waiver was granted despite the fact that a study from the Coordinating Research Council, commissioned by U.S. automakers and oil companies, found that 25 percent of cars approved by the EPA to run on E15 experienced engine damage, and even failure in some cases. Despite the mounting issues the RFS has caused, EPA administrators from both parties have consistently refused to use the flexibility granted to them in law to alter the RFS. This has made it clear that Congress must act toreform the broken RFS policy. In light of news reports that you have tapped Energy and Commerce members to look at reforms to the RFS, we respectfully request that the Committee consider our legislation, H.R. 1462, the RFS Reform Act. This legislation has the support of over 40 diverse organizations from farm and environmental groups to restaurants, food manufacturers, small engine manufacturers, consumer groups, conservative think tanks, and hunger aid organizations. Given the diversity of support, we believe our legislation is the best place for the Committee to begin in reforming the RFS. Renewable fuels have a place in America’s energy policy. Our nation should be looking at alternatives that will help to ease our dependency on fossil fuels. However, these fuels should compete fairly in the marketplace, free from the distortion and government interference that the current ethanol mandate forces. It is clear the current policy is not working and we need fundamental reform. Again, we thank you for beginning work to reform this broken policy and we stand ready to work with you to achieve meaningful reform to the RFS.
07.31.2013	Washington, DC-Rep. Jim Costa supported legislation that won overwhelming bipartisan support in the House would reduce the interest rate for federal student loans before the beginning of the 2013-2014 school year. The Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act of 2013 will reduce student loan interest rates and save students up to $1,500 over the life of the loan. The bill is now headed to the President who has signaled he will quickly sign the legislation. “The interest rate roller coaster ride is over for students in our Valley and across the nation,”said Costa. “My sister and I were among the first in our family to attend college so I know firsthand the power of a college education. This compromise keeps the dream of a degree within reach by providing real savings for students next year.” “At a time when student loan debt exceeds $1 trillion, it is clear that the future of our economy depends on preparing our students for careers without saddling them with massive debt for the rest of their lives. Student loans are just one part of the equation, and it’s time for us to finally have a real conversation about college affordability in this country.” As of July 1st, student loan interest rates doubled from 3.4% to 6.8% because Congress failed to act. Earlier this month, Costa joined students and representatives of Valley community colleges and universities to call for immediate action on federal student loan interest rates. The bipartisan bill will set federal student loan interest rates for next year at: 3.86 percent for all new undergraduate Stafford loans 5.4 percent for graduate Stafford loans 6.4 percent for PLUS loans for parents and graduate students Interest rates at the time a student takes out a loan will be locked in for the life of the loan. In future school years, interest rates will be tied to the rate on 10-year Treasury bonds. However to protect students and their families, these rates are capped at 8.25 percent for undergraduate loans, at 9.5 percent for graduate loans, and at 10.5 percent for PLUS loans.
07.30.2013	Washington, DC-Rep. Jim Costa applauded President Obama’s decision to nominate Michael L. Connor to serve as the Deputy Secretary of the Department of the Interior. Since 2009, Connor has served as the Commissioner of the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation, which oversees federal water projects including the Central Valley Project. “Over the years, I have come to know Commissioner Connor as an honest broker who deeply understands the challenges we face here in the Valley,” said Costa. “His perspective and thoughtfulness will serve the Department well as they work to chart a path forward to resolve our long-term water challenges in California and throughout the nation.” If confirmed by the Senate, Connor would serve as the second highest ranking official at the Department of Interior. While his nomination is pending, Connor will continue to serve in his current position at the Bureau of Reclamation.
07.17.2013	Washington, DC-Rep. Jim Costa announced that the Economic Development Agency (EDA) has committed $1.9 million to expand the existing vocational and business training center in Merced County. The Central Valley Opportunity Center renovation will create 423 new jobs and increase the center’s ability to train workers for higher-wage, higher-skill jobs in the metal manufacturing and transportation trades industry. Costa has been a strong supporter of funding EDA throughout his entire career in Congress. “This award has a clear multiplier effect for Merced County that will result in both short and long-term job growth,”said Costa. “Central Valley Opportunity Center’s work helps build and diversify our Valley workforce which attracts businesses to invest in our region. This investment to expand their facility and services is a big win that will continue to pay off for many years to come.” The Economic Development Agency is an agency within the U.S. Department of Commerce charged with providing grants to economically distressed areas. EDA awards are intended to create jobs, help retain existing jobs, and leverage industrial and commercial investment in local economies.
07.11.2013	Washington, DC- Rep. Jim Costa opposed a highly partisan, misguided Farm Bill that passed the House today. This legislation was made public late Wednesday evening when Republican Leadership made the decision to spring the bill to the floor for a vote. This bill was opposed by almost every organization representing agricultural and nutrition interests. The legislation did not include a reauthorization of the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). Furthermore, it also would repeal the 1938 and 1949 laws endangering future efforts to reform the nation’s agriculture policies. During a speech to the House Costa said, “The Farm Bill is usually one of the most bipartisan things we do, not today. Even though unlike myself, many of my colleagues were not farm kids, I assumed they could tell a horse’s head from his rear, but they’re totally backwards on this one. “This stunt makes a mockery of Chairman Lucas, Ranking Member Peterson, and the committee’s work over the last year and a half. Farmers, ranchers, and anyone who believes in government transparency must be shaking their heads and saying there they go again. “Unlike many of my colleagues on this side of the aisle, I supported the Farm Bill when it failed a few weeks ago because I believed in moving the process forward. This does not move us forward; it moves us back.” For over a year and a half, Costa has been working to craft bipartisan legislation through the normal, committee process that could win support on both sides of the aisle. During floor debate, Costa warned his colleagues that approving this measure could mean that this body never considers a Farm Bill again under regular order. Repealing the permanent law removes the threat that often forces Congress to take action on a Farm Bill. Currently, when the Farm Bill expires the nation’s agriculture policy revert to 1949 levels which roughly doubles the price the government pays for milk. This is then passed on to families who are already facing their stretched-thin budgets. Republican Leadership has also made no promises that approving this bill will lead to a conference committee with the Senate that could craft final legislation. Without a conference committee, today’s vote is an empty attempt to create cover in rural America for previous failures to pass a 5-year Farm Bill.
07.10.2013	Washington, DC-Rep. Jim Costa released the following statement after joining members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus for a meeting with President Obama and Vice President Biden. “There are real challenges to passing tough but fair legislation that will fix our broken immigration system, but today was a positive step in that process,” said Costa. “The President and Vice President were frank about the obstacles ahead, but they also expressed a great willingness to work in good faith with both sides of the aisle to get this finished. I hope that Republican Leadership will pull up a chair and take them up on that offer. “For the sake of our economy, our Valley’s future, and the 11 million still living in the shadows, we must forge a bipartisan path forward. The price of inaction is too high.”
07.09.2013	Washington, DC-Rep. Jim Costa will join members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus tomorrow to meet with President Obama regarding progress on immigration reform. He released the following statement in anticipation of the meeting. “We are closer than we have been in recent memory to fixing our broken immigration system,” said Costa. “Tomorrow, I hope the President lays out a plan to bring House Republicans to the table and get immigration reform across the finish line. Now is the time to finish the job and build bipartisan support for a bill that will provide a path to earned citizenship and will meet the needs of farmers and farm workers, labor and business, and the 11 million people still living in the shadows.”
07.01.2013	Washington, DC-Rep. Jim Costa joined Rep. Robert Hurt (R-VA) to introduce the Preserving Rural Resources Act of 2013 that would reduce regulations placed on ranchers and growers. The EPA and Army Corps of Engineers have reinterpreted portions of the Clean Water Act to require farmers to go through a burdensome and costly permitting process in order to complete routine projects on their land such as building farm ponds, irrigation ditches, and farm roads. Costa and Hurt’s legislation would restore the exemption to the permitting process for routine agricultural activities. “Our farmers work every day to conserve the land that provides them with their livelihood,” said Costa. “The EPA’s permitting process was never intended for routine agriculture activities and they have overreached in an effort to expand their regulatory footprint. These barriers make it cost and time prohibitive for farmers to take necessary actions within their own business. Our bill restores the balance and puts producers back in control.” Congressman Robert Hurt (VA-05) added, “The Preserving Rural Resources Act will provide much-needed regulatory relief to our agricultural community at a time when unreasonable federal regulations stand as a primary roadblock to their success. I thank Congressman Costa for his leadership on this issue and look forward to working with him to enact commonsense reforms like the Preserving Rural Resources Act to encourage economic growth and get this country back to work.” EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers have asserted their authority to regulate agricultural activities is based in the Clean Water Act. However, Congress made a decision in 1977 to amend the Clean Water Act to exempt normal activities necessary to prepare and maintain land for agricultural production from obtaining Clean Water Act permits.
06.27.2013	Washington, DC- Rep. Jim Costa cheered the Senate’s approval of S. 744 the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Bill with a vote of 68-32. As a member of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and third-generation farmer, Costa has been working to ensure that immigration reform meets the needs of both farm workers and farmers. “This is a historic moment for our country, but we are only halfway in our journey to fix our broken immigration system. “Every sector of our economy and every region of our nation have a stake in fixing our broken immigration system. Coalitions from across regions, interests, and ideologies have joined together to demand common sense, comprehensive immigration reform. “Senate Republicans and Democrats came together to find a real solution to a problem that we have failed to solve for decades. We cannot let this moment pass. Shame on us if we cannot finish the job here in the House.”
06.26.2013	June 26, 2013 Washington, DC-Rep. Jim Costa released the following statement following the Supreme Court decision to strike down section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act and reached a procedural decision on California’s Proposition 8 that would allow same-sex marriages to resume in the state. “The Supreme Court affirmed what the majority of Americans already know to be true- couples who wish to make a life-long commitment to one another must be treated equally under the law. “Our Constitution guarantees equal justice for all, and today moves us one step closer to living up to this most basic, sacred value. The Court’s decision sends a clear message that the law of the land protects every American, no matter who they love.”
06.21.2013	Washington, DC-Rep. Jim Costa urged the U.S. Secretaries of Housing and Urban Development and Veterans Affairs to prioritize Merced County in their consideration for grants to support homeless veterans. The Housing and Urban Development-Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) Program provides local housing authorities with critical funds to provide permanent supportive housing, case management, and rental assistance. The Merced County 2013 Homeless Count and Survey released in May stated that of 26 of Merced’s 372 homeless individuals were veterans. “We are making great strides in ending homelessness among veterans nationwide, but we still have more work to do here in our Valley,” said Costa. “These grants help transform lives by providing comprehensive services to at-risk veterans, and the need is clear here in Merced. Regardless of the zip code, no one who served our nation in uniform should ever be living on the streets.” Through the HUD-VASH program, homeless veterans receiving services through the VA can be referred to local housing authorities to obtain VASH vouchers for rental assistance. By combining case management from the VA and housing assistance, the program aims to give long-time homeless veterans the support needed to obtain and maintain permanent housing.
06.20.2013	Washington, DC- Costa blasted the House of Representatives for allowing the Farm Bill to disintegrate into petty, partisan politics. H.R. 1947, the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act of 2013, would have provided the certainty needed for Valley agriculture to thrive and continue producing the healthy, safe foods that American families put on their dinner tables every night. Instead, the House again passed the buck on reforming the nation’s agriculture policies, which will hurt American families and farmers. “Growing up on a dairy you always knew when you stepped in it, unfortunately most of my colleagues never worked in a dairy,” said Costa. “The Farm Bill is a jobs bill, and this dysfunctional Congress failed yet again to provide economic certainty to any sector of our economy. Failure to pass this bill is a slap in the face of our nation’s farmers, consumers, and rural economy. Sadly, the incompetence and short-sightedness of this body continues to amaze me. Despite the Speaker’s commitment to pass the bill, it fell short largely thanks to poison pill amendments that ultimately made passing it in the Senate impossible. My colleagues could learn a lot from the leadership Chairman Lucas and Ranking Member Petersen showed in trying to find a balanced proposal that could gain bipartisan support. I had strong reservations about a number of provisions in this bill, such as the cuts to the SNAP program. The bottom line was I supported the bill because there was too much good in this bill to throw the baby out with the bathwater, and we could have reached a compromise with the Senate. That is what the legislative process is about; it’s time to end this cycle of take it or leave it politics and do our jobs. Instead, my colleagues put partisan, parochial interests above protecting families from more uncertainty in their grocery bills. I would expect better and will continue to work with them to see that we pass a bipartisan Farm Bill.” H.R. 1947 included the following gains for Valley agriculture: $600 million over 10 years for the Specialty Crop Research Initiative (SCRI) to encourage the development of new technologies and improved efficiencies in the production of specialty crops. $375 million for the Specialty Crop Block Grants Program over the life of the 2013 Farm Bill to strengthen the market for the specialty crops we grow in our Valley like fruits, vegetables, and nuts. $630 million over 10 years to prevent the introduction and spread of plant pests and diseases. Maintains level funding ($1.75 billion) for the Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP) that assists farmers with upgrades that improve Valley air quality. Opportunity for California dairy producers to vote on entering the Federal Milk Marketing Order. Equitable Relief for Specialty Crop Policies with funding of $41 million annually over the next 5 years Expansion of Risk Management options for specialty crops and underserved commodities During debate of amendments to the legislation, Costa supported an amendment that would restore funding to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). Costa also offered an amendment that would create a pilot program to help rural municipalities address nitrate contamination in their drinking water supply. Congressman Costa has been a strong advocate for passing a Farm Bill that will modernize the nation’s agriculture policies and provide certainty to Valley agriculture, the economic engine of the region. Raised on a dairy farm in the Kearney Park area, Costa is a third-generation family farmer.
06.18.2013	June 18, 2013 Fresno, CA- Rep. Jim Costa cheered the arrival of the F-15 fighter jet at the 144th Fighter Wing in Fresno. Costa has been a key voice in urging the Air Force to approve the conversion from the older F-16 aircraft to the newer F-15 aircraft. In late May, the Air Force granted final approval for the conversion that would bring 18 F-15s to the 144th Fighter Wing. “The men and women of the 144th stand ready to protect us, and local, state, and federal officials stood together to support their critical mission,” said Costa. “In the past, I have said that I would not rest until the F-15s were on the ground. The hard work and dedication by many has made the touchdown of the F-15 a reality that will strengthen our economy and our national security for years to come. Today, we celebrate this next chapter for the 144th Fighter Wing, and tonight we can all sleep a little easier knowing our brave Guardsmen and women have all the tools necessary to keep our skies safe.” Conversion to the F-15 mission will add an additional 22 military positions at the 144th, and total payroll associated with these new employees would amount to an estimated salary increase of more than $1.5 million. For over 50 years the 144th Fighter Wing has executed the Aerospace Control Alert (ACA) mission over the Southwest region of the United States. The mission protects and defends the airspace and population centers of the Southwest from potential threats.
06.13.2013	June 13, 2013 Washington, D.C.- Rep. Jim Costa announced today that Fresno, Merced, and Madera Counties has received more than $3.4 million under the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program as compensation for lost property tax revenue from non-taxable federal lands. Though the guaranteed funds for the PILT program expire this year, Costa has urged the Surface Transportation Reauthorization Conference Committee to extend the program. Fresno, Merced, and Madera Counties depend on these funds to help keep teachers, police, firefighters, and nurses on the job. “Federal lands provide our community with recreation, conservation, and energy production, but they provide no tax base to help counties provide critical services,” said Costa. “With the budgetary challenges our Valley counties are facing, any assistance goes directly to keeping teachers in the classroom and first responders on the streets. This program provides the revenue necessary to bridge the fiscal gap, and I will continue to fight to see that this program is extended.” Valley counties in the 16th Congressional District received the following PILT payments: Fresno- $2,457,670 Madera County- $907,000 Merced County- $85,168 Local governments receive funding through the PILT program based on the number of acres of federal land within each jurisdiction and population. The payments are intended to compensate local communities for the equivalent of the taxes that would have been collected if the lands were privately owned.
06.13.2013	Washington, D.C.- Rep. Jim Costa announced that Central Valley Opportunity Center Inc. has been awarded $1.8 million to provide educational and employment training to farmworkers in Merced, Madera, and Stanislaus Counties. The U.S. Department of Labor released these funds through the National Farmworker Jobs Program (NFJP). “On a recent visit to the Madera service center, I saw instructors helping dislocated farmworkers learn new technologies and prepare for an ever-changing workforce,”said Costa. “CVOC transforms lives through training dislocated workers for good paying jobs along with teaching life skills necessary to be successful and self-sufficient. Graduates of their programs are better prepared to provide for their families and give back to our community.” CVOC’s Executive Director, Ernie Flores added, “Central Valley Opportunity Center (CVOC) is extremely pleased to have been once again awarded this U. S. Department of Labor Workforce Investment Act grant. Our clients are trained in welding, truck driving, business occupations, cooking and Solar Panel installation, and also receive GED and English classes while they are in training. With these services our farm worker clients are able to compete for year around jobs and contribute to the local economy, something that would be difficult to do without these Federal resources." CVOC has successfully operated NFJP services in Madera, Merced and Stanislaus counties for the past 30 years. The grant allows them to provide educational, employment and vocational training services to more than 300 migrant and seasonal farm workers in their service area every year. They currently have a placement rate of 85% and a retention rate of 84%. The Department of Labor’s National Farmworker Jobs Program (NFJP) is authorized under the Workforce Investment Act. NFJP helps farmworkers upgrade their agricultural job skills or acquire new skills in industries that often offer more stable employment. In addition, the program provides supportive services such as transportation, nutrition, and child care, which help remove barriers to farmworkers pursuing training and enable them to begin new careers and retain their employment.
06.12.2013	Washington, D.C.- With an overwhelming bipartisan vote, Congressmen Jim Costa and Doug LaMalfa’s legislation that would protect consumers from utility fee hikes was approved by the House of Representatives by a vote of 423 to 0. The Public Power Risk Management Act of 2013 removes barriers that place municipal utilities, including irrigation districts such as Merced, Modesto, and Turlock Irrigation Districts, under restrictions that prevent them from taking responsible actions to hedge against price volatility in the energy market. The legislation now awaits consideration by the U.S. Senate. “Families who are struggling to make ends meet cannot afford more uncertainty in their monthly budget ,” said Costa. “Financial reform was meant to protect the middle class from volatility in the markets, but an unintended consequence has put them at risk of a spike in their electric bill. I hope the Senate follows the House’s lead and quickly adopts this common sense measure.” The over 2,000 municipal, state and locally-owned, not-for-profit electric utilities throughout the United States deliver electricity to one in every seven electricity customers in the United States or over 47 million people. The vast majority of utilities serve communities with populations of 10,000 people or less. Merced Irrigation District’s Deputy General Manager of Energy Resources Don Ouchley added, “More than 7,000 customers throughout Merced County benefit from the affordable electricity we provide every day. Rep. Costa’s work on this issue represents a critical component of our ongoing efforts to maintain the most affordable rates possible. We appreciate Rep. Costa’s diligence and hope this legislation will continue to advance in the Senate.” June 12, 2013 The legislation would increase the investment limit for non-financial entities that are affiliated with state or local governments to a level that would allow them to hedge against market volatility. The current limit is so low that it makes it virtually impossible for government-owned utilities to take routine actions to hedge against fuel and power price fluctuations. As not-for-profit entities, these utilities are forced to pass along price increases due to market volatility directly to consumers. Costa’s bill would reverse an unintended consequence of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act that has put small, municipal utilities at a competitive disadvantage by forcing them from the swaps market.
06.06.2013	Washington, DC – This week, Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus (VRC) co-chairmen and co-founders, Reps. Jim Costa and Ted Poe, introduced legislation that would protect the Crime Victims Fund from budget sequestration which is threatening to severely reduce services for victims of crime. The fund is backed solely by criminal fines, forfeitures and other penalties, not federal tax dollars, and it has no impact on the national deficit. “Budget decisions reflect priorities and this bill puts protecting crime victims ahead of misguided budget gimmicks,” said Costa. “The Crime Victims Fund has zero impact on the federal deficit but every dollar spent from the account has a huge impact on a crime victim during their time of need. We all want to fix our debt challenges, but squeezing the Crime Victims Fund doesn’t move us an inch closer to that goal.” “The Crime Victims Fund is the lifeblood of victim service providers,” said Poe. “Victim service providers do important work, helping victims heal, cope and persevere after a crime. This bill will ensure that they are able to continue that work. The money in the Crime Victims Fund is collected exclusively from criminals (not taxpayers) and is used to aid those who the criminals have hurt. Any cuts in this fund will do nothing to reduce the deficit and only rob victims of critical services they need to move on with their lives. ” Current law requires that all funds not spent in a single fiscal year “shall remain in the Fund for obligation in future fiscal years, without fiscal year limitation.” The White House’s Office of Management and Budget now projects that the Fund’s balance will be $11.431 billion in 2014. Despite large fund balances, the amount of assistance to states in 2012 was 30 percent less, in real, inflation-adjusted dollars, than it was in 2000. The federal cap on spending from the fund has lead to 630,000 fewer victims receiving services than those who gained assistance in 2007. Sequestering the Crime Victims Fund does nothing to reduce the long-term deficit, and merely further defers funding for critical, often life-saving services to victims of crime. As co-chairmen and co-founders of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus, Costa and Poe have been leaders in bringing the issue of crime victims’ rights to the forefront in Congress. The mission of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus is to elevate crime victim issues in Congress in a bipartisan manner without infringing on the rights of the accused and to represent and to advocate before the Administration and within Congress on behalf of crime victims.
06.05.2013	Legislation Invests in Ending Homelessness among Veterans Washington, DC – Rep. Jim Costa supported legislation which cleared the House of Representatives today and builds on the nation’s commitment to supporting former service members and providing the resources necessary for construction and upkeep of military facilities. The 2014 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act included tough language that would eliminate the shameful backlog of benefit cases at the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs and would also invest in programs that are helping end homelessness among the nation’s veterans. The legislation now awaits approval in the Senate before it is sent to the President for his signature. “We have a promise to the brave men and women of our armed services to stand with them when they return home,” said Costa.“This is a bill that lives up to that commitment by laying the groundwork to repair areas where we have faltered in the past. From helping ensure that every veteran has a place to call home to guaranteeing they receive the benefits they have earned in a timely manner, this is an important step on that road that rights the wrongs of recent years.” Among other things, the legislation fully funds the paperless information technology system designed to speed the processing of benefits claims. The legislation also creates aggressive monthly reporting requirements for the VA Regional Offices that will help hold the VA accountable in living up to its promise of speedy claims processing. Currently, the Oakland VA Regional Office that serves the majority of veterans in the Valley has one of the largest loads of backlogged cases with more than 80 percent of claims waiting over 125 days. From the day a veteran walks in the door to the day a benefit is issued takes about 541 days if it is processed in Oakland, or about 225 days longer than the national average. The bill also includes a $1 billion investment in VA homeless assistance programs that have provided critical funds to the Fresno Housing Authority which have allowed them to provide permanent housing to homeless Valley Veterans. Currently, the Authority is providing service to 145 veterans through the Housing and Urban Development-Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) program and was recently awarded another grant to assist another 70 homeless veterans.
05.29.2013	FRESNO, CA- Rep. Jim Costa announced today that the Fresno Housing Authority and the Fresno Veterans Affairs Medical Center have been awarded $378,840 to provide case management and rental assistance to 70 homeless veterans. The Housing and Urban Development-Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) program is jointly operated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Since the HUD-VASH program began in 2009, there has been a 17 percent drop in chronic homelessness amongst veterans nationwide. “When the men and women of our military take their oath to protect and serve, we as citizens also make a pledge to support them when they return,” said Costa. “Fulfilling our sacred promise requires us to keep working until every veteran has a place to call home and the tools necessary to lead productive lives. This award puts us one step closer to ending homelessness among Valley veterans." Through the HUD-VASH program, homeless veterans receiving services through the VA can be referred to local housing authorities to obtain VASH vouchers for rental assistance. By combining case management from the VA and housing assistance, the program aims to give long-time homeless veterans the support needed to obtain and maintain permanent housing. Locally, Fresno Housing Authority partners with the Fresno Veterans Affairs Medical Center to provide support to eligible veterans with the help of HUD-VASH funding. Fresno Housing Authority Executive Director and CEO Preston Prince added, “We are looking forward to strengthening our partnership with the VA in our community and jointly serving even more veterans through this program. The Fresno Housing Authority currently serves 145 veterans through the HUD-VASH program and this award will enable us to expand our housing and supportive services to even more deserving veterans.”
05.22.2013	Washington, DC - Rep. Jim Costa announced today that Valley water projects would receive more than $3.4 million in WaterSMART Water and Energy Efficiency Grants from the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation. The grants will help fund infrastructure improvements that will increase efficiency and reduce pumping. “In our current dry year, farmers and water contractors doing all they can to make good use of scarce water resources,” said Costa. “These investments will help save water and reduce energy use by modernizing our water infrastructure. There is no silver bullet to solve our water needs, but improvements like this move us closer to a secure water future.” Valley projects receiving funding include: Henry Miller Reclamation District, Island Canal System Modernization Reclamation Funding: $ 1,332,506 Total Project Cost: $2,719,400 The Henry Miller Reclamation District will make improvements to its Island Canal system, including constructing new automatic flow control structures, two automatic spillways, a new regulating reservoir, and a flow and water quality monitoring station. The project is intended to reduce operational spills and to make more precise deliveries. The project is expected to result in water savings of 4,150 acre-feet annually, which will allow the District to reduce diversions from the Delta-Mendota Canal. Patterson Irrigation District, Marshall Road and Spanish Drain Return System Reclamation Funding: $1,500,000 Total Project Cost: $3,200,000 The Patterson Irrigation District will install 3 new pump stations and approximately 3.7 miles of new pipeline so that water from the District's drains can be recovered and pumped back into the delivery system for use, reducing the need for water from other sources. The project is expected to result in 5,000 acre-feet of water savings annually, which will allow the District to market that amount through existing and new water transfer agreements. Tranquillity Irrigation District, East-West Intertie Water Conservation Project Reclamation Funding: $300,000 Total Project Cost: $681,645 The Tranquillity Irrigation District will connect two separate District distribution systems to increase efficiency. The project includes the construction of a pumping plant equipped with a Supervisory Control and Data Acquisitions system and flow meter and installation of a half-mile pipeline to connect the distribution systems. As a result, the project will reduce seepage, evaporation, and storage losses, expected to result in water savings of 630 acre-feet annually. The District also expects to reduce energy consumption by approximately 216,100 kilowatt-hours each year by reducing pumping requirements. Madera Irrigation District, Irrigation Water Conservation, Telemetry and Delivery System Management Improvement Project – Friant Water Authority Reclamation Funding: $299,608 Total Project Cost: $599,217 The Madera Irrigation District will implement various efficiency improvements throughout its delivery system, including the installation of automated flume gates, a new Supervisory Control and Data Acquisitions system, and flow meters. The project is expected to result in water savings of 2,925 acre-feet annually through reduction of operational spills.
05.16.2013	Washington, DC - Rep. Jim Costa, the highest ranking Californian on the House Agriculture Committee, voted to move H.R. 1947, the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act of 2013, to the House floor. At nearly midnight, the House Agriculture Committee gave overwhelming support with a vote of 36-10 to take up where the last Congress left off and advance a five year Farm Bill that will set the nation’s agriculture and nutrition policies. “At its core, the Farm Bill is a jobs and food security bill,”said Costa. “Giving certainty to this sector of our economy protects families at the grocery store and jobs in our Valley communities. We still have more work to do to ensure the 2013 Farm Bill works for all Americans, including revisiting cuts to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), but we are moving this process forward. There is too much good in this bill to let it die before it is heard on the House floor. Rural America cannot afford inaction. We owe them a vote.” The Farm Bill that cleared the House Agriculture Committee contained many victories for Valley farmers, livestock producers, and dairymen and women. These include among others: $600 million over 10 years for the Specialty Crop Research Initiative (SCRI) to encourage the development of new technologies and improved efficiencies in the production of specialty crops. $375 million for the Specialty Crop Block Grants Program over the life of the 2013 Farm Bill to strengthen the market for the specialty crops we grow in our Valley like fruits, vegetables, and nuts. $630 million over 10 years to prevent the introduction and spread of plant pests and diseases. Maintains level funding ($1.75 billion) for the Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP) that assists farmers with upgrades that improve Valley air quality. The legislation also included a provision that would allow California the opportunity to enter the Federal Milk Marketing Order. Costa has long advocated giving producers the chance to petition the U.S. Agriculture Secretary for entrance into the Federal Order. Earlier this year, Costa joined fellow Valley Rep. David Valadao in introducing bipartisan legislation that would allow California Dairy Producers to vote on this matter. As the legislation moves forward, Costa will continue to fight to ensure that Valley farmers, livestock producers, and dairymen and women have all the tools necessary to continue to do what they do: produce the safest, healthiest foods in the world.
05.15.2013	Washington, DC- Rep. Pete Olson (R-TX) and Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA) today introduced bipartisan legislation to increase competition, stabilize food prices and enhance American energy security and global competitiveness. The Domestic Alternative Fuels Act, H.R. 1959, would allow ethanol produced from domestic natural gas to be included under the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) and compete with corn-based ethanol. The RFS was designed to reduce our need for imported oil, but the unintended consequences have resulted in escalated food and feedstock prices by diverting food crops to ethanol production. Original co-sponsors include: Rep. Ted Poe (R-TX), Rep. Henry Cuellar (D-TX), Rep. Eric "Rick" Crawford (R-AR), Rep. Ralph Hall (R-TX), Rep. Tom Cole (R-OK), Rep. Gene Green (D-TX), Rep. Blake Fahrenthold (R-TX), Rep. Tim Griffin (R-AR), Rep. Bill Flores (R-TX), Rep. Joe Barton (R-TX), Rep. Kurt Schrader (D-OR), Rep. Filemon Vela (D-TX), Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT), Rep. Randy Neugebauer (R-TX) and Rep. Thomas Marino (R-PA). Rep. Pete Olson said. "The RFS' singular focus on corn ethanol translates into higher food costs for working families, as well as higher feed costs for livestock producers. To be clear, my primary goal will always be the full repeal of the market distorting RFS. However, until then, we can take care of immediate problems by providing greater participation and competition under the program. Expanding the sources for ethanol will only benefit all Americans. I'm pleased this measure enjoys bipartisan and widespread support." Rep. Jim Costa said, “We cannot keep gambling our nation’s energy and food security on a broken policy. The Renewable Fuel Standard has injected uncertainty into our economy, and it’s time to bring this policy back into balance. Our bill will help stabilize feed prices and create some sanity in this policy through diversifying sources for ethanol production. American families and farmers cannot continue to pay for Washington’s unwillingness to reform the RFS.” H.R. 1959 would establish Domestic Alternative Fuel as an independent fuel category and list it within the regulations that specify volume obligations to meet the RFS. The artificial market created by the RFS mandate will require 36 billion gallons of ethanol in less than 10 years - quadruple the initial 2008 mandate. An estimated 40 percent of the U.S. corn crop was used for ethanol production in recent years, resulting in diminished supplies for livestock and food producers and higher corn prices. The bill would also enhance America’s energy security and global competiveness by expanding the eligibility requirements within the RFS to allow ethanol derived from natural gas to compete with corn-based ethanol. Broadening the number of feedstocks eligible within the RFS will enable greater capital investment in research and development and promote the construction of new domestic production facilities, creating American jobs. Groups in support of the Domestic Alternative Fuels Act: National Cattlemen’s Beef Association, National Chicken Council, America’s Natural Gas Alliance.
05.09.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Jim Costa introduced critical legislation, the More Water and Security for Californians Act, which would significantly increase the water supply in the Valley. Farmers and growers who receive water from the Central Valley Project (CVP) and the State Water Project (SWP) would see greater water security under Costa’s legislation. “After 2 dry years and a 20 percent water allocation, now more than ever is the time for real solutions to our broken water system,” said Costa. “The Bay Delta Conservation Plan is the long-term solution, but there are actions we can take now to bring more water and jobs to our Valley. This bill is about giving relief and economic security to all Californians. There is no time to wait. Politics cannot stand in the way of a sensible solution to the devastation our region has experienced year after year. We need to get this bill to the President.” The More Water and Security for Californians Act will: Provide Congressional direction to implementation of the Endangered Species Act (ESA); Restore operational flexibility to California water projects; and Provide reasonable protection to threatened species. The Congressional direction provided to the United States Fish and Wildlife Service and the National Marine Fisheries Service who manage the Central Valley Project (CVP) and the State Water Project (SWP) would last for seven years to provide security while the BDCP moves forward. The ESA implementation direction would also address the concerns identified by the U.S. Eastern District Court and the National Academy of Sciences (NAS). Costa’s bill has gained the support of Valley water districts, including Westlands Water District, Friant Water Authority, and the San Luis and Delta Mendota Water Authority. Other groups expressing support include the Latino Water Coalition and Paramount Farms among others. Westlands Water District General Manager Tom Birmingham added, “The enactment of this legislation will provide much needed certainty for farmers on the west side of the San Joaquin Valley. This year, Westland Water District lost 195,000 acre feet of water because of restrictions imposed under the Delta Smelt Biological Opinion. Had this legislation been in effect, Westlands would not have lost this water and our allocation this year would be 40 or 45 percent compared to the existing allocation of 20 percent.”
05.08.2013	Washington, DC- Rep. Jim Costa applauded the FAA’s decision to halt the elimination of the overnight shift at Fresno Yosemite International Airport and 71 other facilities nationwide. The FAA had previously announced the possibility of discontinuing these shifts due to budget sequestration. Costa supported legislation that would allow the FAA to end budget-related furloughs and reverse previous decisions to discontinue critical services, such as the overnight shift at Fresno Yosemite Airport. “FAA heeded our call to find a better path forward in dealing with sequestration,” said Costa. “The FAA is doing the right thing by rolling back their ill-advised decision to discontinue the overnight air traffic control shift at Fresno Yosemite Airport. This will help keep our skies safe, support natural disaster response, and ensure that the 144th has the tools needed to complete their mission.” When the U.S. House of Representatives approved the Reducing Flight Delays Act of 2013, Costa made clear in a letter that the flexibility given to the FAA under this bill must be used to end furloughs, to maintain the overnight air traffic control tower shift at airports across the country including Fresno Yosemite International Airport, and to prevent the closure of 149 air traffic control towers including the tower at Merced’s Castle Airport. The President signed the bill last week. Specifically, the legislation eliminated the need for furloughs at the nation’s air traffic control towers. The bill also granted the FAA the ability to shift funds for other programs within the agency giving the Secretary the ability to maintain service at non-contract towers such as Fresno International Airport. Costa urged the FAA to use this flexibility to continue critical services at airports in the Valley and nationwide.
04.26.2013	Washington, DC- Rep. Jim Costa supported legislation that would reduce airport delays and maintain the midnight shift at Fresno Yosemite International Airport’s air traffic control tower, which supports the mission of the 144th Fighter Wing. The Reducing Flight Delays Act of 2013 also gives the Administration the flexibility to reverse their decision to shutter Castle Airport’s air traffic control operations, a move Costa has been urging the FAA to take since March. With a vote of 361 to 41, the House overwhelmingly approved the bill that unanimously cleared the Senate last night aimed at resolving recent flight delays related to sequestration. It is now headed to the President’s desk for signature. “The misguided sequester has put the safety and efficiency of our skies in jeopardy,” said Costa.“With an overwhelming bipartisan vote, the House has rolled back dangerous staffing reductions at our nation’s airports. FAA now has all the tools necessary to keep our skies safe and continue all operations at Fresno Yosemite Airport and Merced’s Castle Airport.” Specifically, the Reducing Flight Delays Act of 2013 allows the Department of Transportation to shift $253 million in unobligated balances of the Airport Improvement Program to operations and staffing at the FAA. This move would eliminate the necessity for furloughing FAA employees at the nation’s air traffic control towers. The bill also allows the FAA to shift funds for other programs within the FAA giving the Secretary the ability to maintain service at FAA contract towers such as Castle Airport and non-contract towers such as Fresno International Airport. Costa also made clear in a statement that the flexibility given to the FAA under this bill must be used to end furloughs, to maintain the midnight air traffic control tower shift at airports across the country including Fresno Yosemite International Airport, and to prevent the closure of 149 air traffic control towers including the tower at Merced’s Castle Airport. Continuity of service at both Fresno Yosemite and Castle Airport are critical to military operations and natural disaster response among other important services.
04.25.2013	Washington, DC- Rep. Jim Costa blasted U.S. Housing and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan over his decision to close the Fresno Field Office, which would force Valley residents to drive nearly 200 miles for in-person assistance. In a letter, Costa called their decision to close the office misguided and ill-advised. “This is another sucker punch to our Valley that is still struggling in the aftermath of the housing crisis,” said Costa.“Few were hit harder than we were, and this is another sign that the Administration just doesn’t get it. With this decision, they are foreclosing on families’ last lifeline in their fight to keep their homes.” In Costa’s letter, he urged the Administration to reevaluate their decision and consider possible alternatives as the burden was falling disproportionately on some parts of the state. Should the decision stand, California will have 3 field offices left in San Francisco, Los Angeles, and Santa Ana. Text of the letter can be found below: April 24, 2013 The Honorable Shaun Donovan Secretary U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development 451 Seventh Street, SW Washington, D.C. 20410 Dear Secretary Donovan: It has come to my attention that you have authorized the closure of several U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) field offices across the country, including the Fresno Field Office. While I understand the extraordinary funding situation your Department faces as a result of the sequester’s misguided across-the-board cuts, your decision to shut down the Fresno office is a sucker punch to the San Joaquin Valley as we struggle to recover from the housing crisis. Few communities in the United States were hit harder when the housing bubble burst than the San Joaquin Valley. As you saw during your recent visit to Fresno, thousands of Valley families lost their homes – often a family’s biggest investment – and entire neighborhoods were economically decimated. Years after the housing crisis began, the foreclosure rate in California’s 16th Congressional District is more than 40% higher than the state foreclosure rate. Valley homeowners, renters, real estate professionals, public housing and homeless advocates, and our local cities and towns depend on the Fresno Field Office for a multitude of services. From housing counseling to foreclosure prevention and assistance, the Fresno Field Office has been a lifeline for my constituents. Your decision to shut down the Fresno, Sacramento, and San Diego Field Offices leaves only three field offices open in California: San Francisco, Los Angeles, and Santa Ana. In order to receive in-person assistance, my constituents will have to drive nearly 200 miles to the closest office. This is unacceptable. Furthermore, your decision to maintain service at two field offices in Southern California calls into question whether the burden of these closures will be fairly shared by the state. There must be another way. Therefore, I request that you reverse this ill-advised decision and consider all possible alternatives that would maintain a field office in Fresno, the fifth most populous city and the largest inland city in the state. These alternatives include other ways of reducing spending within the account in order to more equitably share the burden of these cuts across the state and formally requesting a reprogramming of funds from Congressional appropriators. I look forward to a swift response detailing how HUD will take immediate steps to avoid the closure of the Fresno Field Office. Sincerely, JIM COSTA Member of Congress
04.24.2013	Washington, DC- Rep. Jim Costa hailed the Air Force for their efforts to keep the F-15 conversion at the 144th Fighter Wing on track. Costa was joined by fellow Valley Reps. David Valadao and Devin Nunes on a letter to the Air Force last month reaffirming the critical mission of the 144th and their strong support for the aircraft conversion from the older F-16 aircraft to the newer F-15 aircraft. The Air Force today released a letter stating that the aircraft conversion was in its final stages. “The stars are aligning to get this done for the 144th, and we’re on track to bring the F-15s home to the base,” said Costa.“The men and women of the Fighter Wing work every day to keep our skies safe. Supporting their mission in any way possible has always been my mission, and I won’t stop fighting until those jets touchdown in Fresno.” In the Air Force’s response to the Valley delegation, they noted that the time period for public comment ended on April 1st and that a final record of decision was expected by the summer. The Air Force could begin converting the 144th Fighter Wing to the F-15 aircraft after the release of the record of decision. Conversion to the F-15 mission would add an additional 22 military positions at the 144th, and total payroll associated with these new employees would amount to an estimated salary increase of more than $1.5 million.
04.23.2013	Washington, DC- Rep. Jim Costa has introduced legislation that would expand Yosemite to include nearly 1,600 acres of land that were originally intended for inclusion within the park. The Yosemite National Park Boundary Expansion Act of 2013 would adjust the park’s current boundary to protect its vulnerable western border and prevent the potentially problematic and costly development of these remote areas. Senator Dianne Feinstein has also introduced companion legislation in the United States Senate. “Yosemite is a national treasure and preserving these lands will help maintain the integrity of the park for generations to come,” said Costa.“Yosemite holds a special place in the hearts of all Californians, and that’s why we have had broad bipartisan support line up behind this proposal. As we approach Yosemite’s 150th anniversary, there is no more fitting tribute than recommitting ourselves to protecting the park and restoring it to John Muir’s original vision.” The bill would specifically authorize the voluntary sale of lands within the new boundary to the National Park Service. While the sale is authorized, Costa’s bill respects rights of local landowners whose property falls within the new park boundary. The legislation does not authorize additional funds for the purchase of the adjacent land in Mariposa County. Last week, the California State Senate approved a resolution urging the adoption of legislation to add the 1,600 acres to the park. Broad support for park expansion continues to grow among elected officials as the bill has gained the support of California Natural Resources Secretary John Laird, the Mariposa County Board of Supervisors, members of the California State Legislature, including Mariposa County Senator Tom Berryhill and Assemblymember Kristin Olsen. Additional groups supporting the legislation include Pacific Forest Trust, the Yosemite West Property & Homeowners Association, the Yosemite Conservancy, the Sierra Club, and Environment California.
04.17.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman Jim Costa released the following statement in response to the “Gang of 8” introducing their bipartisan legislation to fix the nation’s broken immigration system. As a member of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and third-generation farmer, Costa has been working closely with Valley representatives and elected officials on both sides of the aisle to ensure that the legislation would address the concerns of Valley agriculture and workers. “For the first time in recent memory, there is a broad, bipartisan coalition coming together behind a long-term solution to fix our broken immigration system,” said Costa.“Thanks to hard work and reaching across the aisle, the 8 Senators have planted a flag that meets the needs of farmers and farm workers, labor and business, and the 11 million people still living in the shadows. Their plan provides a legal, stable workforce for agriculture and critical protections for those who work every day to put safe, healthy foods on our nation’s dinner tables. This was a deal breaker for the Valley. The status quo is unacceptable for our families, our businesses, and our future. The time is now.”
04.10.2013	Washington, DC- The House gave overwhelming bipartisan support to legislation that would put the nation’s waterways to work producing clean, affordable energy at no cost to taxpayers. Costa helped lead the charge with Rep. Scott Tipton (R-CO) on H.R. 678, the Hydropower Development and Rural Jobs Act. The bill streamlines the path for development of small hydropower projects on existing Bureau of Reclamation projects creating rural jobs and modernizing our water infrastructure. The bill cleared the House with a vote of 416-7.“Every day, water flows thousands of miles through canals, pipes, and ditches across the country, and every day we miss valuable opportunities to utilize this resource’s full potential,” said Costa. “The greatest barrier to unleashing the next generation of hydropower is not technological; it is regulatory. If we want to strengthen our energy portfolio, we must start with the low hanging fruit. ” Congressman Costa teamed up with Republican Congressman Scott Tipton on the legislation that clears the way for clean energy production at Reclamation facilities. “There has been a lot of discussion on both sides of the aisle about the need to pursue an all-of-the-above domestic energy strategy, and hydropower, as the cleanest and most abundant renewable energy source, should be at the forefront of any comprehensive national energy policy,” said Rep. Scott Tipton (R-CO). “That is why Congressman Costa and I have worked to advance this bipartisan legislation to foster clean, renewable energy development, create jobs in rural America, and do so without taxpayer cost while returning revenues to the Treasury.” H.R. 678 would empower local water agencies and irrigation districts to develop small conduit hydropower that would stimulate rural economies and reduce the pumping costs local farmers face each year. The Hydropower Development and Rural Jobs Act has been endorsed by American Rivers, the Family Farm Alliance, the National Water Resources Association, and the American Public Power Association, among others.
04.10.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Reps. Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Jim Costa (D-CA), Steve Womack (R-AR), and Peter Welch (D-VT) released the following statement today regarding the introduction of the RFS Reform Act in the U.S. House of Representatives: “The RFS debate is no longer just a debate about fuel or food. It is also a debate about jobs, small business, and economic growth. The federal government’s creation of an artificial market for the ethanol industry has quite frankly triggered a domino effect that is hurting American consumers, energy producers, livestock producers, food manufacturers, and retailers. The broad coalition of organizations supporting this legislation echo the same sentiment: the RFS is not working.” The Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) mandates that 36 billion gallons of renewable fuels be part of our nation’s fuel supply by 2022. Almost all of this is currently being fulfilled by corn ethanol. In 2011, five billion bushels of the corn supply was used for ethanol – equal to nearly 40 percent of the U.S. corn crop. While the RFS is causing food prices to go up, the RFS has not provided relief for consumers at the pump. In fact, citing the RFS, the EPA is setting the target for refiners to blend cellulosic biofuels into gasoline higher than the amount of cellulosic biofuels that exists. When these non-existent fuels cannot be blended refiners are financially penalized, which ultimately gets passed on to consumers at the pump. “The RFS Reform Act will eliminate corn-based ethanol requirements, cap the amount of ethanol that can be blended into conventional gasoline at 10 percent, and require the EPA to set cellulosic biofuels levels at production levels. Renewable fuels play an important role in our energy policy but should compete fairly in the marketplace. This legislation will bring the fundamental reform this unworkable federal policy needs now.” Congressman Costa added, “The debate is over; the Renewable Fuel Standard as we know it is not sustainable. I have heard just this week from Foster Farms, poultry producers in my district, that their price of doing business has jumped by over $250 million annually in the last 5 years because of skyrocketing corn prices. Putting food into our fuel tanks is hurting dairymen and women, livestock producers, consumers, and businesses across the nation. We can’t afford this. It’s time for real, wholesale change.” The RFS Reform Act is supported by a diverse group of more than 40 organizations, including ActionAid USA, the American Frozen Food Institute, the American Meat Institute, the Competitive Enterprise Institute, the Environmental Working Group, the Grocery Manufacturers Association, the Milk Producers Council, the National Cattlemen’s Beef Association, the National Chicken Council, the National Council of Chain Restaurants, the National Marine Manufacturers Association, the National Restaurant Association, the National Taxpayers Union, the National Turkey Federation, the Outdoor Power Equipment Institute, and Taxpayers for Commonsense.
04.05.2013	Merced, CA- Rep. Jim Costa released the following statement about the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) announcement to postpone until June 15th the closure of 149 federal air traffic control towers, including the tower at Merced’s Castle Airport. Last month, the FAA announced that federal funding to maintain air traffic control operations at Castle would be discontinued on April 7th. Yesterday, Congressman Costa joined nearly 50 other Members of Congress on a letter to encourage the FAA to reconsider their closure decisions that would fall disproportionately on rural communities and compromise safety at small to medium air fields. “Merced’s Castle Airport is important not just to our Valley economy but also to disaster assistance and military readiness,” said Costa. “The FAA heeded our calls that they put the brakes on tower closures and reevaluate their ill-advised decision. Their original announcement goes completely against the idea of shared sacrifice and puts the entire burden on communities like Merced" “We have time now to make sure that the Administration uses all of the discretion it was granted under sequestration to keep our skies safe. There is a better way, and I’m working with my colleagues to make sure the Administration finds it.”
03.22.2013	Fresno, CA- Rep. Jim Costa announced the 2013 Congressional Art Competition, “An Artistic Discovery,” to give high school students in California’s 16th District the chance to showcase their talents. High school students living in the 16thCongressional District, which includes parts of Fresno and Madera Counties and all of Merced County, are encouraged to enter the competition. Congressman Costa will hold a reception in both Merced and Fresno County to display student submissions for the public. The winner of the competition will receive a trip to Washington D.C. and have their artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol for an entire year. “Every year the Congressional Art Competition showcases the talents of our Valley’s best and brightest,” said Costa. “I look forward to seeing the creativity and artwork of our high school students.” Guidelines for the competition are as follows: Participants must be high school students residing in the 16th District Artwork must be no larger than 28" by 28" framed (framing not required) and two-dimensional* Eligible forms of artwork are paintings, prints, drawings, collages, computer art, mixed media and photography A release form certifying the originality of the art piece must be signed by teacher and student Artwork cannot weigh more than 15 lbs Entries must be submitted by 5:00pm on Friday, April 19th to either the Fresno or Merced District Office *Winning artwork must be framed for display in Capitol and comply with size restrictions. Since 1982, the Congressional Art Competition has honored the creative talents of more than 650,000 high school students across the nation. Local competitions are voluntarily hosted by Members of Congress in their home districts. In June, the winning piece is sent to Washington, and winners are invited to the Capitol for a ribbon-cutting ceremony and Congressional reception. For further information, please visit Costa’s websiteor contact the Fresno District Office at (559) 495-1620.
03.21.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Costa joined fellow Valley Representative David Valadao in introducing legislation that would allow California dairy producers the option to enter into the Federal Milk Marketing Order. Currently, California operates under its own state-based order that establishes the price milk processors pay based on the dairy products they make, but many dairy producers have expressed concerns that they are paid less for their milk than producers in federal order states. The California Federal Milk Marketing Order Act is similar to the approach Costa advocated for during the Farm Bill negotiations last Congress. “Far too many dairies in California have been forced to shutter their operations due to high feed prices and low returns on their products,” said Costa. “Having grown up working on a dairy, I know the industry’s unique challenges and am deeply committed to help dairymen and women keep their operations afloat. Our legislation will put control back in dairymen and dairywomen’s hands and give them the option to choose what works best for their business.” The bipartisan legislation would not require California to enter the Federal Milk Marketing Order. Instead, it would allow producers the option to petition the Secretary of Agriculture for entrance into the Federal Order. Two-thirds of producers would have to vote in support of the change before California could transition to the new order.
03.19.2013	Washington, DC- Rep. Jim Costa, whose district includes the 144th Fighter Wing, was joined by fellow Valley Congressmen Devin Nunes and David Valadao on a letter to the Air Force expressing their continued support for the proposed F-15 aircraft conversion. As required by the National Environmental Protection Act, the Air Force released a Final Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) that reflects favorably on the conversion from the F-16 Fighting Falcon aircraft to the F-15 Eagle aircraft at the 144th Fighter Wing at Fresno-Yosemite International Airport. The Final EIS states that Fresno-Yosemite (IAP) “has been determined to be the only geographic location that satisfies the purpose and need…to support the [Aerospace Control Alert] mission due to its central location along the west coast of the U.S.” Rep. Jim Costa: “The men and women of the 144th are on call to protect and serve, and their Valley delegation is standing united to make sure the Fighter Wing has all the tools necessary to complete their mission. The 144th is critical to maintain air superiority in the Southwest, and keeping the F-15 conversion on track will enhance their ability to keep our skies safe.” Rep. Devin Nunes:“As illustrated in a recent Air Force report, the stationing of F-15s in Fresno is crucial for the success of the Aerospace Control Alert mission. This action is vital to the servicemen and women at the 144th Fighter Wing and to our overall defense posture on the West Coast. ” Rep. David Valadao: “Securing the proper resources to protect and defend our airspace on the West Coast is of utmost importance. Additionally, the local economy will benefit from the addition of these aircraft which will work to ensure that the 114th Fighter Wing will continue to play a crucial role in protecting our country.” The Final EIS anticipates that the conversion will require some minor construction projects at the Wing, which would result in short-term economic benefits to the economy. Conversion to the F-15 mission would also add an additional 22 military positions at the 144th, and total payroll associated with these new employees would amount to an estimated salary increase of more than $1.5 million. The final EIS is open for public comment until April 1, 2013. Following the comment period, the Air Force will review public input and release a Record of Decision (ROD), which will announce the final decision on the F-15 conversion. The ROD is expected later this year.
03.14.2013	Washington, DC- Rep. Jim Costa applauded the latest step in repairing California’s broken water system with the release of preliminary draft plans for the implementation and completion of the Bay Delta Conservation Plan (BDCP). The documents released by the California Natural Resources Agency chart a path towards restoring the health of the Bay Delta and protecting the economies of the California communities that rely on water from state and federal projects. “Our current water system in California is broken,”said Costa.“It provides us with neither a reliable water supply nor does it restore our fisheries. With today’s announcement, we have a viable option to finally end our historic water wars. Our water system was designed for 20 million people but is currently serving 38 million people. Our state cannot sustain this and compete in the 21st Century. This is a major step forward that would have never happened without the leadership of Governor Brown. We have already spent 7 years and a quarter of a billion dollars getting to where we are, and achieving a real, comprehensive fix to a broken water system is within reach. Today moves us closer than we have ever been to a solution that copes with our reality and balances the dual goals of increasing our water supply reliability and supporting ecosystem recovery. The clock is ticking, and all parties must commit to staying firm on the timeline for completion. It is past time for action. We must break this cycle; we must complete the BDCP.” Today’s release is the first of three announcements that will come in the next few weeks. These draft documents will outline details for the proposed plan to implement the BDCP and to meet the goals of increasing water reliability and improving the health of the Delta. Costa has long supported the completion of the BDCP to restore balance and health to California’s broken water system. The plan would help meet long-term water needs of the San Joaquin Valley and restore the health of the Bay Delta. For more information about the Bay Delta Conservation Plan, please visit https://baydeltaconservationplan.com
03.14.2013	Washington, DC- Rep. Jim Costa announced that$388,144has been awarded to Merced County organizations from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The funds were made available through the Continuum of Care Homeless Assistance competitive grant program. HUD recently released a report showing there are more than 500 homeless persons including more than 50 homeless veterans in Merced City and County. “During recent meetings with city and county officials, chronic homelessness in the Merced area has repeatedly been brought up as a challenge that must be addressed,”said Costa. “These grants are a down payment on current efforts to break the cycle and make sure that everyone in the Valley has a safe place to call home. There is still much more to do to tackle this problem, but I’ll be fighting with you every step of the way.” Lori Newman, Executive Director of the Community Social Model Advocates added, “Continued federal funding is critical to assisting the women who are on the difficult road to recovery from substance abuse or alcoholism. Providing safe, supportive transitional housing with services for these women and their young children improves the chances that they will maintain their new lifestyle. What we do every day rebuilds families and lives; this grant will help us build on that mission.” The following organizations from Merced County have been awarded HUD grants: Community Social Model Advocates, Rose Julia Riordan Tranquility House- $44,904 Atwater, CA Merced County Office of Mental Health Project Home Start- $131,913 Merced County, CA Merced County Office of Mental Health Turning Points Programs- $128,618 Merced County, CA Merced County Community Action Agency- $82,709 Merced County, CA These competitive grants can be used for a variety of programs to assist homeless populations including rental assistance, transitional housing, permanent housing, and other supportive services. The awardees receiving funds provide critical services that help the homeless secure and maintain safe, permanent housing and become self-sufficient.
03.13.2013	Washington, DC- Rep. Jim Costa announced more than $5.3 million has been awarded to Fresno and Madera County organizations from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The funds were made available through the Continuum of Care Homeless Assistance competitive grant program. HUD recently released a report showing that nearly 4,500 homeless persons including more than 600 homeless veterans in Fresno and Madera Counties. “Here in our Valley, we continue to battle the plight of homelessness as our neighbors are faced with questions every night about where they will rest their heads,” said Costa. “These funds will help advocates throughout our Valley continue to transform lives and help our vulnerable populations find a safe place to call home.” Fresno Housing Authority’s Executive Director/CEO, Preston Prince commented, “We are incredibly pleased to receive these renewal awards for our existing programs that support our homeless initiatives. In a very tenuous funding environment, these grants for over $1.3 million allow us to have confidence that we can continue to serve our community’s most at-risk population. We are anxiously awaiting the announcement of the funding for our new programs that will enhance our efforts to end homelessness in our community.” Michelle L. Tutunjian, Fresno EOC’s Director Sanctuary and Youth Services, added, “We are extremely pleased to be awarded critical funding to continue our efforts to end youth homelessness in Fresno. Our three federal funding awards will provide 90 homeless youth and their families, including youth exiting the foster care system, with up to 24 months of transitional housing and supportive services to assist them with becoming self-sufficient and contributing members of our community.” The following organizations from California’s 16th Congressional District, which Costa represents, have been awarded HUD grants: · Fresno EOC Sanctuary Transitional Living Centers- $1,075,516 · Fresno Housing Authority- $1,399,268 · Marjaree Mason Center- $625,748 · Povarello House- $360,915 These competitive grants can be used for a variety of programs to assist homeless populations including rental assistance, transitional housing, permanent housing, and other supportive services. The awardees receiving funds provide critical services that help the homeless secure and maintain safe, permanent housing and become self-sufficient.
03.13.2013	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Jim Costa joined Rep. Doug LaMalfa (R-CA) to introduce bipartisan legislation that would provide stability in energy prices for consumers. The Public Power Risk Management Act of 2013 would remove barriers that place municipal utilities, including irrigation districts such as Merced, Modesto, and Turlock Irrigation Districts, under restrictions that prevent them from taking responsible actions to hedge against price volatility in the energy market and to protect consumers from utility fee hikes. “Our municipal utilities work hard to provide reliable, affordable energy to their customers,” said Costa. “This legislation will correct one of the unintended consequences of financial reform and give them the tools they need to protect families and businesses from energy price volatility. In a time when many families are struggling to make ends meet, they cannot afford a spike on their electric bill because Congress failed to fix this oversight.” The legislation would increase the investment limit for non-financial entities that are affiliated with state or local governments to a level that would allow them to hedge against market volatility. The current limit is so low that it makes it virtually impossible for government-owned utilities to take routine actions to hedge against fuel and power price volatility. As not-for-profit entities, these utilities are forced to pass along price increases due to market volatility directly to consumers. Costa’s bill would reverse an unintended consequence of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act that has put small, municipal utilities at a competitive disadvantage by forcing them from the swaps market.
03.12.2013	Washington, DC- Rep. Jim Costa urged the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to continue operation of the air traffic control tower at Merced County’s Castle Airport. The Valley-based airport is on a list of control towers under consideration for closure due to sequestration cuts. Castle supports critical military training operations, natural disaster readiness, and hundreds of local jobs. Full text of Costa’s letter to FAA Administrator Huerta can be found below. March 12, 2013 The Honorable Michael P. Huerta Administrator Federal Aviation Administration U.S. Department of Transportation Washington, D.C. 20591 Dear Administrator Huerta: This letter serves to express my deep concern regarding the slated closure of the air traffic control tower at Castle Airport. While I understand the extraordinary funding situation the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) faces as a result of the sequester’s misguided across-the-board cuts, I strongly believe that Castle’s unique circumstances and vital role in direct military support and disaster relief make it essential to the national interest. Castle Airport is an impressive facility strategically located in the heart of California’s Central Valley. The airport has an expansive 11,802 foot runway capable of accommodating the largest of aircraft and hardstand parking for more than 80 wide-body, heavy aircraft. In addition, Castle has the ability to store more than 1 million gallons of jet fuel and 12,000 gallons of aviation gasoline. Formerly Castle Air Force Base, Castle Airport continues to be utilized by the U.S. military principally because it has an active air traffic control tower. The airport serves as a critical training site for the U.S. Air Force Airlift and Air Refueling Training Missions, and the U.S. Army and Marine Corps regularly utilize Castle for large-scale helicopter training exercises. Without an active control tower, Castle may be unable to support these critical military training missions. Castle also serves as a central component of the region’s coordinated natural disaster and public health response effort. The airport currently houses the Merced County Emergency Operations Center and the Merced County Sherriff’s Dispatch center. As such, Castle is well positioned to serve as the base of operations should a major emergency occur on the West Coast of the United States. In addition, Castle is already designated as a location into which vaccines could be flown for distribution to public health providers in the event of a wide-scale health disaster requiring mass immunization. Closure of the tower at Castle would unnecessarily hamper our response to major natural disaster and public health emergencies. Castle is also a major economic engine for the region. Thanks to the air traffic control tower, Castle was able to attract Sierra Aviation, an international flight school that employs nearly 100 well-paid instructors and 200 students. The flight school is currently on pace for more than 150,000 operations in this year alone. Shutting down this tower clearly will jeopardize aviation safety and efficiency at the airport, slow down our economic recovery, damage our national security, and impede our ability to respond to natural disasters and public health emergencies. On behalf of my constituents in California’s 16th Congressional District, I urge you to continue to operate Castle Airport’s air traffic control tower. Sincerely, JIM COSTA Member of Congress ###
03.04.2013	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Jim Costa, who represents Merced County, and Congressman Tom McClintock, who represents Mariposa County, introduced a bill today that would allow Merced Irrigation District to apply to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to raise the spillway at Lake McClure. The legislation adjusts the Merced Wild and Scenic River boundary to match the FERC project boundary for the New Exchequer Dam. Merced Irrigation District is proposing to raise the spillway by 10 feet, which would allow for the storage of up to 70,000 additional acre-feet of water in a wet year. The District is currently unable to apply to raise the spillway because it would cause temporary increases in the levels of approximately 1,800 feet of the Merced River where it joins Lake McClure. The Merced Wild and Scenic designation prohibits such increases in water levels. “As we face a looming water crisis this year, it is more important than ever that we continue to explore long-term solutions that improve water reliability throughout the state,” said Costa. “Though there is no silver bullet to solve our water challenges, increasing storage at Lake McClure Reservoir would give us another tool to prepare for dry years. Boosting storage is taking out an insurance policy to protect jobs and keep our economy moving.” “At a time when California is suffering increasingly scarce water supplies and paying among the highest electricity prices in the nation, this legislation will allow for both increased water storage and additional hydropower generation,” remarked Congressman McClintock. “The benefits of a minor adjustment to the boundary rescue this desperately needed resource from truly outrageous bureaucratic red tape." Lake McClure has the storage capacity of over a million acre feet of water, and the spillway raise could allow for the capture of up to an additional 70,000 acre feet of water in a wet year. This would increase carryover storage and increase average critical dry year water supply by 15,000 acre feet. It would also enhance groundwater storage, provide incidental flood control benefits and the additional water could generate up to 10,000 MW hours of hydropower per year, enough to serve 1,700 homes.
03.01.2013	Fresno, CA – Rep. Jim Costa called for action to increase water supplies South of Delta to U.S. Bureau of Reclamation Commissioner Mike Connor today. In the letter, Costa outlined specific steps that the Bureau could take immediately that would result in thousands of additional acre feet of water every day. In February, Reclamation announced slowing of water exports through the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta due to reports that Delta smelt had been lost in the pumps. These pumping restrictions resulted in the loss of over 820,000 acre feet of water since mid-December, which would have supported $2.2 billion in economic activity. “Our farmers, farm workers, and farming communities have great anxiety about the impact this year’s limited water supply will have on our economy, and I share their concern,” said Costa. “Reclamation has the flexibility to offer much-needed relief from a regulatory drought that is yet again threatening our region. They must use it. The steps I have called for are no-brainers that will increase our water supply and will help our farmers to stay afloat.” On February 25th, the Bureau of Reclamation announced a 25 percent water allocation, which is insufficient to sustain the Valley economy and jobs. Costa has called anything less than a 40 percent allocation in consecutive dry years completely unacceptable. In the letter, Costa outlined three steps the Bureau could take immediately that would yield an additional 2,000 acre feet of water per day, enough to help mitigate the negative impact of water supply shortages and increase the South of Delta water allocation. These steps are: Increase pumping at the Jones Pumping Plant and the Banks Pumping Plant to manage reverse flow in Old and Middle Rivers Immediately seek authorization from the Army Corps to increase permitted pumping at the Banks pumping facility, consistent with the actions taken in 2010 after June 30, which will be evenly split between the Central Valley Project and State Water Project After June 30, use the physical capacity at the Jones Pumping Plant allowing more water to be used through the Intertie Costa also reminded Commissioner Connor that improving the situation for water users throughout the state would require leadership and engagement by all parties. To do this would also require the Bureau and others to recognize the devastating impacts of the looming water crisis and take administrative action to avoid the failures from 2009 and 2010.
02.28.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Jim Costa, Co-Chair of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus, supported legislation that expands protections for victims and survivors and gives victims’ advocates and law enforcement the tools necessary to protect vulnerable populations. The reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act, which won bipartisan support in the House of Representatives and Senate, is now headed to the President for his signature. “Protecting all crime victims and their families is one of our most sacred obligations,” said Costa. “Today, the House came together to put victims first and to finish the job that was left undone by the last Congress. We have come a long way in reducing domestic violence, and this Reauthorization gives advocates who are on the frontlines the tools they need to ensure no survivor faces their struggle alone.” “All victims deserve equal protections and the right to access supportive services and justice,” added Chevon Kothari, Executive Director, Mountain Crisis Services, “As theexecutive director of a domestic and sexual violence organization, I see firsthand the importance of the Violence Against Women Act to the individuals and families we serve. This reauthorization gives us the necessary tools to assist vulnerable populations in their time of need.” “The Violence Against Women Act is critical to protecting the more than 4,500 women and children in Fresno County who turn to our center during their time of need,” said Pamela Kallsen, Executive Director, Marjaree Mason Center. “The vote to reauthorize the law will help us provide emergency assistance and legal services for victims of domestic violence here in our Valley. We are very grateful to our elected officials who saw how essential these programs are to the wellbeing of our communities.” The Violence Against Women Act that first passed in 1994 helped bring domestic violence out of the shadows and give law enforcement and victims’ advocates much-needed tools to assist crime victims and their families. Since that time, non-fatal intimate partner violence has decreased 53 percent, and the number of women who have been killed by an intimate partner has dropped 34 percent. Costa serves as the co-chair and co-founder of the bipartisan Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus. The mission of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus is to elevate crime victim issues in Congress in a bipartisan manner without infringing on the rights of the accused, and to represent and to advocate before the Administration and within Congress on behalf of crime victims.
02.28.2013	Washington, DC- Reps. Jim Costa and Doc Hastings, co-chairs of the Congressional Specialty Crop Caucus, announced today the reorganization of the caucus and membership for the 113th Congress. The Caucus aims to raise awareness about the issues facing specialty crop growers and processors and advocate for policies that allow these producers to continue to provide American families with safe, healthy foods. Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA):“In my home state of California, we produce half the nation’s fruits and vegetables and protecting the industry is critical to the economy of my district. The men and women who grow our specialty crops provide nutritious options for our nation’s families and create thousands of jobs across the country. Building a healthier nation starts with our dinner tables, and these are the healthiest, safest foods in the world.” Rep. Doc Hastings (R-WA): “Agriculture has been the backbone of Central Washington’s way of life for generations and provides more jobs than any other industry in our state. Our region’s specialty crop growers provide top-quality produce to consumers in the United States and around the world, and I am pleased that the Specialty Crop Caucus will provide a way to promote policies that help these growers continue to succeed.” Barry Bedwell, President, California Grape & Tree Fruit League: “The California Grape and Tree Fruit League applaud the efforts of the Specialty Crop Caucus. With approximately one half of the value of all crops grown in the U.S., specialty crops represent not only a very positive impact on jobs and the economy but also a focus on eating more fruits, nuts and vegetables that will fight obesity and lead to a healthier society.” Chris Schlect, President, Northwest Horticultural Council:“I am pleased that our tree fruit growers and shippers will have the Specialty Crop Caucus as a central place through which to make their views known to national leaders on important federal Issues. The Specialty Crop Caucus offers a clear pathway for us to express our thoughts and concerns to the entire membership of the U.S. House of Representatives.” Membership in the Specialty Crop Caucus for the 113thCongress: Doc Hastings- Washington Jim Costa- California Mike Michaud- Maine Reid Ribble- Wisconsin Colleen Hanabusa- Hawaii Jerry McNerney-California Mike Simpson- Idaho Greg Walden- Oregon Mike Thompson- California Bill Owens- New York Earl Blumenauer- Oregon Jeff Denham- California Kurt Schrader- Oregon Robert Aderholt- Alabama
02.25.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Jim Costa released the following statement in response to the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation announcement of an initial federal water allocation of 25 percent for south of Delta agriculture water service contractors. With average rainfall, the allocation could rise to 35 percent by April which is still insufficient to meet the needs of Valley agriculture. “After the two driest months on record, Valley agriculture is faced with yet another fight for the water it deserves,” said Costa. “The bottom-line is that anything less than a 40 percent allocation in consecutive dry years is unacceptable and cannot sustain our livelihood. Our farmers will make their crop decisions by the end of March, which gives us only 4 weeks to make this happen. There is no time to take a wait and see approach before using regulatory flexibility; every day wasted is valuable time and water lost. The Obama Administration must know after 2009 and 2010 that immediate action is necessary to keep a bad situation from becoming absolutely devastating to our Valley.” Water allocations and forecasts can improve over the course of the water year. In 2010, Costa worked with other Valley leaders to encourage the Administration to boost the initial allocation of 5 percent to more than 40 percent by the end of the water year through a series of administrative actions. Costa will work with local leaders and Members of Congress again to increase the water allocation to a level that will help put people back to work and allow farmers to take full advantage of the most productive agricultural land in the country. “We have been able to increase our water allocation in dry years by working together, and it is critical that it happens again this year,” said Costa. “But we face these same fights every year instead of acting on a permanent solution for our broken water system. The reasons for implementing the Bay Delta Conservation Plan can be measured by reduced water allocations, lost acre feet, farmland left unused, and billions of dollars lost. We know the price of inaction, and it’s too high. It’s far past time to get to this done.” Today’s announcement is the first official allocation of the 2013 Water Year for the Central Valley Project. Water updates are made monthly and can be found on the Bureau of Reclamation’s website:https://www.usbr.gov/mp/PA/water/
02.22.2013	Announce Membership for 113th Congress February 22, 2013 Washington, DC- Reps. Jim Costa, David Valadao, and David Cicilline, co-chairs of the Congressional Portuguese Caucus, announced today the reorganization of the caucus and membership for the 113th Congress. The Caucus aims to strengthen the long-standing ties between the United States and Portugal as well as increase awareness of the achievements of the over 1 million Americans of Portuguese descent. Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA):“As the grandson of 4 Portuguese immigrants, the values my family took from the Azores have never been far from my heart. They taught us that family and tradition were important and that in American anything can be accomplished through hard work. The Portuguese Caucus aims to strengthen the bonds of our two peoples and advocate for the mutual interests of the United States and Portugal.” Rep. David Valadao (R-CA):“My family immigrated to the United States from the Azores Islands of Portugal in search of the American dream. With more than one million individuals of Portuguese descent living in the United States, many share stories similar to that of my family. As a result, the positive contributions Portuguese-Americans have made to our society are evident. As Co-Chairs of the Caucus, it is important that we do our part to represent this community in Washington.” Rep. David Cicilline (D-RI):“As the Representative for Rhode Island’s First Congressional District, I am proud to serve many constituents of Portuguese descent. Serving as a co-chair of the Congressional Portuguese Caucus will allow me to ensure that their voices are heard and interests are represented in Washington.” Membership in the Portuguese-American Caucus for the 113th Congress: Rep. Jim Costa, Calif. Rep. David Cicilline, R.I. Rep. David Valadao, Calif. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, Texas Rep. Marcia Fudge, Ohio Rep. Michael Grimm, N.Y. Rep. Colleen Hanabusa, Hawaii Rep. Zoe Lofgren, Calif. Rep. Mike Honda, Calif. Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee, Texas
02.22.2013	Fresno, CA – Rep. Jim Costa announced that he has nominated 10 students from across the Valley for admission to one of the United States service academies. These students represent the best of the regions’ youth through their excellence in academics, athletics, and service. “These students represent the very best of our Valley,” said Costa. “They have shown themselves to be leaders in their communities and have thrived in the classroom. More impressively, these young people have taken the steps toward a career serving their nation in the United States Military. It is an honor to nominate them, and I wish them the best of luck in their future endeavors.” Members of Congress are allotted appointments for admissions consideration to the United States Service Academies. This helps ensure that students from across the country are able represent their regions at the service academies. Students interested in seeking a nomination to a service academy should visit Rep. Costa’s website for further information. Costa Nominees to United States Service Academies: Tyson Edward Coffey – U.S. Merchant Marine Nominee Tyson is a senior at Buhach Colony High School in Atwater, California. He is the son of Willie and Rachel Coffey of Atwater. Tyson is a 3 sport athlete, excelling in football, basketball and baseball. In addition to his athletic honors, he also excels academically with a GPA of 4.21. Tyson is active in his community and school, well respected by his peers and is described by his teachers and coaches as a true leader. Hireri (Hilary) Martinez – U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Nominee Hilary is a senior at Duncan Polytechnical High School in Fresno. She is the daughter of Josefa Sarabia of Fresno. Hilary is the current Operations Officer and a strong leader in AFJROTC at Duncan Polytechnical. Hilary excels in academics and athletics. In addition to her dedication at school, Hilary is very active in the community and volunteers with many non-profit organizations and veterans groups. Hilary is described as a true leader and dedicated individual with a bright future. Mary Kathryn Stammer – U.S. Naval Academy Nominee Mary Kathryn is a senior at Lemoore High School. She is the daughter of Walter H. and Melissa W. Stammer, III of Lemoore. Mary is from a third generation Navy family. She excels in sports and academics, achieving high honors in both. Mary Kathryn is a true leader and is described by her teachers as a model citizen and student. Cyril Nafarrete Pascual – U.S. Naval Academy Nominee Cyril is a senior at Hanford West High School. He is the son of Marilex and Antonio P. Pascual, Jr. of Hanford. Cyril is a four year member and current Commanding Officer of his NJROTC Unit at Hanford West. His Senior Naval Science Instructor, John E. Wix, LCDR (Ret) stated, “Cyril is the top cadet in the NJROTC program, and I give my strongest recommendation for his appointment to the Naval Academy.” Connor MacLearn Harris – U.S. Naval Academy Nominee Connor is currently a senior at Lemoore High School. He is the son of Gregory and Stacey Harris of Lemoore. Connor comes from strong U.S. Navy roots; his father is a graduate of the Naval Academy and a current Commander of a Carrier Air Wing. Connor is involved in many extracurricular activities and excels in academics. Connor has been described by his teachers as top of his class and a clear leader. Olivia Christina Czerewko – U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Merchant Marines Nominee Olivia is currently attending Lemoore High School. Olivia is the eldest of eight children in a military family. She is the daughter of Jeffrey and Dianna Czerewko of Lemoore. Olivia excels in academics and is a dedicated athlete. Olivia is a true leader and has been described by her teachers as an outgoing and a student of rare and remarkable qualities. Logan D. Cunning – U.S. Naval Academy Nominee Logan Cunning is currently a senior at Lemoore High School. He is the son of Jason and Vanessa Cunning of Lemoore. In addition to his dedication to academics and school activities, Logan also excels in baseball and water polo at Lemoore High School. Logan is active in the local 4-H program and works part time as an umpire in the Lemoore Little League. Logan has been described by his peers and teachers as a dedicated individual and a true leader. Michael Adam Cumming, Jr. – U.S. Air Force Academy Nominee Adam is a senior at Lemoore High School. He is the son of Michael Adam Sr. and Rebecca Cumming of Lemoore and Julie Catherine Pettis of Oregon. Adam is a member of the NJROTC program at Lemoore High School and is at the top of his class at Lemoore High School. In addition to excelling in academics and sports, Adam is very active in his church and the community. Adam has been described by his teachers as a model student and citizen. Alexander J. Kuykendall – U.S. Air Force Academy Nominee Alex is a senior at Lemoore High School. He is the son of Jeffrey and Jill Kuykendall of Hanford. Alex is a star athlete and student. Alex has been Captain of the Water Polo Team for the past 2 years and is a leader on his swim team. In addition to his excelling in sports, Alex has been described by his teachers and peers as a model student and friend. Layla M. Shoufer – U.S. Air Force Academy Nominee Layla is a senior at Corcoran High School. She is the daughter of Abdulla Shoufer and Amelia Valdez of Corcoran. Layla is a strong member of her AFJROTC program at Corcoran High School and is currently ranked number 1 at Corcoran AFJROTC. In addition to her dedicated efforts in AFJROTC, Layla excels in academics and sports. Layla is also very active in AMVETS, FFA and her community. Layla is described as bright, energetic, star student and a true leader.
02.22.2013	Washington, D.C.– U.S. Representatives Jim Costa (D-CA), Glenn ‘GT’ Thompson (R-PA), Gene Green (D-TX), and Tom Reed (R-NY) today announced an expanded, four-member leadership team for the Congressional Natural Gas Caucus, a bipartisan effort to educate Members of Congress and the American people about the importance of natural gas as a domestic energy resource, its role in meeting the nation's energy demand and in attaining energy security. U.S. Representative Jim Costa (D-CA):“Natural gas is American-made and critical to winning our energy future. Voters want to see Congress lead and build bipartisan agreement to deal with the problems of our day. Over 70 members from both sides of the aisle have come together to say that we must keep pushing forward to meet our energy challenges. This is about smart policies, not partisan politics.” U.S. Representative Glenn ‘GT’ Thompson (R-PA):“The United States is witnessing an energy revolution through which natural gas development and production is offering economic growth, lower energy costs, and a vastly expanded energy resource base. The Congressional Natural Gas Caucus will serve as a forum to educate Members of Congress and the public on the growing importance of natural gas in meeting the nation’s energy needs and explore the policy challenges that must be leveraged for American consumers and domestic industries to continue benefiting from this abundant, low-cost energy source.” U.S. Representative Gene Green (D-TX):“I look forward to working with my fellow co-chairs on expanding the Caucus’ membership and using it as a forum to educate, discuss and unite around policies that we can agree on.” U.S. Representative Tom Reed (R-NY):“Our country has been blessed with plentiful reserves of natural gas – reserves that will supply America with long-term, low-cost energy. The opportunities are endless for economic growth through the direct and indirect jobs created by natural gas development and its importance in New York’s 23rd District, and across the country, cannot be overstated. Along with my co-chairmanship of the House Manufacturing Caucus, I expect to be able to highlight the importance of development through the Congressional Natural Gas Caucus and the way it intertwines on both fronts. The development of domestic natural gas has already proven to be a game-changer for U.S. manufacturing and the Natural Gas Caucus will highlight ways to generate quality, good-paying American jobs.”
02.21.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Jim Costa announced today that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded the Yosemite Area Regional Transportation System (YARTS) with a $583,941 grant for a clean-diesel, ADA- accessible motor coach to add to their growing fleet. The new bus will help expand existing service to Yosemite National Park and meet the increasing needs for alternative transit to the park. “Yosemite is a national treasure that has a special place in the hearts of Californians and visitors from across the country” said Costa. “This grant will improve air quality, reduce traffic through and expand access to the park, helping to preserve the park for future generations. YARTS lets you get out of the driver’s seat and into nature faster.” “YARTS is absolutely delighted to be selected for funding under the Paul S. Sarbanes Transit Program,” said Dick Whittington, YARTS Transit Manager. “For the past three years, Yosemite has been hitting or exceeding the 4 million visitor mark. The funding will allow us to continue to grow our fleet of clean-diesel over-the-road coaches as our mission expands in providing alternative transportation to the Yosemite Region.” YARTS was one of 29 projects funded nationwide through the Paul S. Sarbanes Transit in Parks Discretionary Program, which is intended to reduce traffic congestion and improve access to our National Parks and federal lands. YARTS provided transit services throughout the Valley and to Yosemite for over 94,000 passengers in 2012 and demand continues to grow.
02.20.2013	Thanks Haller & Rivera for Heroic Service February 20, 2013 Washington, DC – Rep. Jim Costa congratulated California Highway Patrol Officers Sean Haller and Rafael Rivera who were honored for their heroic service by Vice President Joe Biden and Attorney General Eric Holder. The two were among 18 public safety officers nationwide to receive the Public Safety Officer Medal of Valor, the highest national award for valor by public safety officers. “Our law enforcement officers and firefighters put their lives in harm’s way every day to protect our families and communities,” said Costa. “Although no award can fully show our depth of gratitude for their dedicated, heroic service, this honor shows that we recognize and appreciate the risks they take for our safety. Officers Haller and Rivera went above and beyond the call of duty to rescue a fallen officer during a February 2010 firefight in Fresno County. Their work to protect and serve represents the best of our state and nation.” This honor was authorized by the Public Safety Officer Medal of Valor Act of 2001. The medal is awarded to public safety officers who have exhibited exceptional courage, regardless of personal safety, in the attempt to save or protect human life. Since the honor was first awarded in 2003, a total of 78 medals have been presented to public safety officers nationwide. More information about the Medal of Valor Review Board and the nomination process is available at: www.ojp.usdoj.gov/medalofvalor.
02.15.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Jim Costa called on Speaker Boehner and Leader Pelosi to bring up legislation to avoid the impending sequester that could be devastating to the Valley and nation’s economy. Without Congressional action, an automatic across-the-board $85 billion in cuts would be triggered on March 1st and another $1 trillion over the next 10 years. Costa voted earlier today to keep the House in session to allow time for debate of legislation to avert sequestration. “This Congress has become experts in creating traps and economic uncertainty,” said Costa. “If the sequester goes into effect, the ripple effect of these indiscriminate, blanket cuts will be felt by every family and throughout our economy. Few sectors will be left untouched including the groceries you buy, the teachers in your children’s classrooms, and support for the elderly, among many others. “The American people deserve better. It’s time to break the cycle of politically created chaos and uncertainty. Congress must act.” Costa’s letter to Boehner and Pelosi highlighted the potential impacts to his Congressional District. The full text of the letter follows. Dear Speaker Boehner and Leader Pelosi: Our nation faces great economic and fiscal challenges. All too often our leaders in Washington opt for political gamesmanship and manufactured crises instead of offering solutions. Congress can begin to change this culture of chaos by taking immediate action on big, bold and balanced proposals to avert the $85 billion in across-the-board spending cuts set to take effect in just two weeks. Every day that we delay, our educators, businesses and federal agencies are trying figure out how to deal with sequestration rather than innovating to meet the challenges of tomorrow. These indiscriminate cuts will be harmful to our fragile economic recovery and our national security. During a hearing this week in the House Committee on the Budget, Congressional Budget Office Director Douglas Elmendorf testified that 750,000 jobs will be lost in 2013 if sequestration goes forward. Simply the threat of the sequester has already flooded our economy with uncertainty and damaged consumer confidence. Moreover, these cuts will cause real harm to my constituents in California’s 16th Congressional district. Should Congress fail to avert the sequester: In Merced County, 68 children and families would lose early educational services from Head Start and Early Head Start and 17 staff members would lose their jobs; Fresno Unified, the fourth largest school district in California, would face $6.3 million in cuts to Title I programs, funding for the Individuals with Disabilities Act (IDEA), and other grants; The necessary relocation of F-15 aircraft to the 144th Fighter Wing in Fresno, California, in order to enhance the Wing’s Aerospace Control Alert mission may be deferred; Hundreds of low-income women and children could lose nutrition assistance and education and breastfeeding support through the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC). Meat and poultry plants in California could face the prospect of shutdowns and consumers could see higher meat and poultry prices due to food safety inspection personnel furloughs; Grants for pest and disease prevention, surveillance and response would be severely curtailed, hurting my district’s farmers, ranchers and growers; More than 6,000 seniors in California, many of whom are facing the threat of hunger, would lose the nutritious and sometimes life-saving meals provided by organizations like Meals On Wheels; And many other negative impacts to California’s seniors, students, small businesses, farmers, water users and middle class families. On November 2, 2011, I joined 100 Members of the U.S. House of Representatives in urging the Super Committee to go beyond the $1.2 trillion in deficit reduction it was required to propose and instead accomplish the $4 trillion in long-term deficit reduction required to return fiscal sanity to our nation. I continue to believe that a grand bargain of this magnitude is necessary and a far better choice than the reckless and damaging across-the-board cuts of the sequester. I strongly urge you to work together to reach a deficit reduction agreement that averts this economic collision course. Sincerely, JIM COSTA Member of Congress
02.13.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Jim Costa released the following statement following news that over 700,000 acre feet of water had been lost from the slowing of water exports through the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta between November 1st and January 31st. The supply was drastically reduced in response to reports that 232 Delta smelt had been lost during that time period. “In a year when we are already facing a tight water supply, the situation has been made even more absurd and devastating to our water users by this regulatory decision,”said Costa. “Had the Bay Delta Conservation Plan (BDCP) and the proposed tunnels been completed, our agricultural water service contractors would not have lost a drop of precious water that could have supplied billions of dollars in economic benefits to the people of our Valley. This is another example of how our water system is broken and in need of a permanent solution.” “For our region to compete in the 21st Century, we must bring real water reliability to the Valley, and the only way to do that is by completing and implementing the BDCP for our long term water needs. There is no other path forward to protect and grow our economy.” The Bay Delta Conservation Plan proposed twin intake tunnels that would carry water beneath the Delta to the existing pumping stations south of the Delta. The two tunnels when completed would convey 9,000 cubic feet of water per second.
02.12.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Jim Costa released the following statement about what he hopes to hear from President Obama in his 5th State of the Union address. “The President will stand before a nation that is still wondering if leadership in Washington has the vision and will to chart a course for real prosperity in the 21st Century,”said Costa. “Strengthening the state of our union means kick starting job creation, strengthening the middle class, and drawing a roadmap for how the United States will continue to lead the global economy.” “During the last 4 years, we have been embroiled in partisan bickering and failure to deal with the big issues of our day. From reining in our national debt to providing certainty for American businesses and families, Washington has shown an inability to think months down the road, much less years. Winning the future means focusing more on results and less on who wins the day’s news cycle.” “The President must show leadership and willingness to compromise tonight. He needs to lay out a plan to get our fiscal house in order, pass a 5-year Farm Bill, reform our broken immigration system, and attract good paying jobs by investing in our water and transportation infrastructure. More importantly, I hope that once the speech is over that the President has the ability to put his words into action.”
02.06.2013	January 6, 2013 Washington, DC – Rep. Jim Costa will join Fresno Unified School District on Friday, February 8th for the kickoff of their financial aid workshop series. These free, public sessions will offer step-by-step assistance to students and families filing the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and/or the DREAM Act online application. Costa will join Fresno Superintendent Michael Hanson and Superintendent Christopher J. Steinhauser of Long Beach Unified School District, Fresno Unified’s FAFSA pilot program partner. “The future of our Valley depends on the success of our students, but sticker shock from the price of a college degree often keeps our best and brightest from meeting their full potential,” said Costa. “Every student should know what resources are available to help them reach graduation. These workshops will give families hands on assistance to complete their applications for federal aid and learn more about other scholarship options.” “An increasing number of our students are opting to attend college after graduation. This school year alone, a total of 3,543, to date, have applied,”added Superintendent Michael Hanson. “We are doing all that we can to help make it affordable for them and their families. The Central Valley region is one of the poorest in the nation, so we know that for many of our students, the price of college could be a determining factor as to whether they will even apply for admission. We are grateful to Representative Costa for his support of our efforts and we encourage our students to take full advantage of the resources available to them.” FAFSA is the gateway for students seeking federal financial aid, but too often many well-qualified students fail to successfully complete the application. In 2011, Fresno Unified was selected by the Department of Education as 1 of 20 sites nationwide to be a FAFSA Pilot Completion District. The pilot program aims at increasing the rate of students who successfully complete their financial aid applications. Through the program, high school guidance counselors gain access to tools that allow them to track which students have successfully completed the FAFSA and offer additional resources to those who have not. Students and their families will be able to file their FAFSA applications online with the assistance of Fresno Unified staff. The workshop will take place from 5-8 on the second floor of the Manchester Mall at 1901 East Shields in Fresno. As a part of this initial workshop, Sallie Mae will hold an informational session about what to expect after completing the FAFSA and responsible borrowing.
01.22.2013	Maintains Seat on Key House Water and Power Subcommittee January 22, 2013 Washington, DC – Rep. Jim Costa will serve as the Ranking Member on the House Agriculture Committee’s Livestock, Rural Development, and Credit Subcommittee. The committee oversees livestock, dairy, and poultry issues along with rural development, family farming matters, and farm credit policies. “The last Congress left a lot of work undone, and now is the time to finish the job for Rural America by passing a Farm Bill,”said Costa. “In the Valley, agriculture is our way of life and growing the industry has always been my top priority. A strong dairy industry is critical to our Valley economy. From my post as Ranking Member, I will be working across the aisle to craft policies that will help struggling producers stay afloat and keep California at the forefront of our nation’s dairy industry. I will also be fighting to ensure that the farm communities in our Valley have access to USDA programs that will help them compete in the 21st Century.” Congressman Costa has served on the House Agriculture Committee since he first took office in 2005. As a third-generation farmer who was raised on a dairy farm, Costa is intimately familiar with the dairy and livestock industry that fall under the jurisdiction of the Livestock, Rural Development, and Credit Subcommittee. Costa will also serve on the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Horticulture, Research, and Foreign Agriculture that oversees specialty crops, plant pests and diseases, and trade promotion programs. Costa will also continue to serve on the House Natural Resources Subcommittees on Water and Power and Energy and Mineral Resources. Water and Power is responsible for the nation’s water resources and interstate water issues. The Energy and Mineral Resources Subcommittee oversees energy production and mining on federal lands, both on and off-shore.
01.15.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Jim Costa announced today that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has launched a new microloan program to help small and family operations and socially-disadvantaged farmers obtain up to $35,000 in loans. The program aims to help small and beginning producers scale up their operations so they can build equity and gradually gain access to private, commercial credit. “Access to low interest capital is one of the greatest obstacles for small and beginning farmers looking to start their own operations,” said Costa.“Programs such as these are critical to grow the next generation of farmers who will continue to produce the safest, healthiest foods in the world and drive our Valley economy.” The loan program will be operated by the USDA’s Farm Service Agency (FSA) Operating Loan Program. Currently, more than 40 percent of the loans made by USDA go to small, beginning farmers. Since 2008, USDA has also increased loans to socially-disadvantaged farmers by over 50 percent. Producers interested in applying for a microloan should contact their local Farm Service Agency office. Learn more about the microloan program changes here.
01.11.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Jim Costa released the following statement on the announcement of Governor Jerry Brown’s budget, which includes funds for the operation and maintenance of the new Fresno Veterans Home. Costa has long championed the home from fighting to secure the $92 million for construction to working with local veterans and elected officials to encourage state funding for the operation of the home. “We have all waited and worked for this day to come,”said Costa. “After 12 long years, we are finally in a position to provide the services our Valley veterans need and deserve. I give credit most of all to our veterans who have never lost faith that we would open the doors of this veterans home, their veterans home.” “Now the legislature must act quickly to approve this critical funding and fully open the home. We have strong Valley advocates in Sacramento who have always made opening the home a top priority. I am confident the home will soon be fully operational and providing quality care for our veterans.”
01.01.2013	Fresno, CA- Rep. Jim Costa announced the 2013 Congressional Art Competition, “An Artistic Discovery,” to give high school students in California’s 16th District the chance to showcase their talents. High school students living in the 16thCongressional District, which includes parts of Fresno and Madera Counties and all of Merced County, are encouraged to enter the competition. Congressman Costa will hold a reception in both Merced and Fresno County to display student submissions for the public. The winner of the competition will receive a trip to Washington D.C. and have their artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol for an entire year. “Every year the Congressional Art Competition showcases the talents of our Valley’s best and brightest,” said Costa. “I look forward to seeing the creativity and artwork of our high school students.” Guidelines for the competition are as follows: Participants must be high school students residing in the 16th District Artwork must be no larger than 28" by 28" framed (framing not required) and two-dimensional* Eligible forms of artwork are paintings, prints, drawings, collages, computer art, mixed media and photography A release form certifying the originality of the art piece must be signed by teacher and student Artwork cannot weigh more than 15 lbs Entries must be submitted by 5:00pm on Friday, April 19th to either the Fresno or Merced District Office *Winning artwork must be framed for display in Capitol and comply with size restrictions. Since 1982, the Congressional Art Competition has honored the creative talents of more than 650,000 high school students across the nation. Local competitions are voluntarily hosted by Members of Congress in their home districts. In June, the winning piece is sent to Washington, and winners are invited to the Capitol for a ribbon-cutting ceremony and Congressional reception.
12.20.2012	Washington, DC – Rep. Jim Costa’s bill to rename the Fowler post in honor of former Postmaster Cecil E. Bolt’s for his 27 years of service won approval from the House of Representatives today. Bolt who passed away in 2007 was a pillar of his community who has been remembered for quiet acts of kindness that extended to personally delivering packages to Fowler families on many Christmas Eves and beyond. Costa’s bill H.R. 4389 awaits Senate action. Both California Sens. Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer have sent letters encouraging its speedy adoption. For a video of Costa’s remarks, click here. Costa’s remarks (as prepared) are below. “I appreciate the gentle lady yielding me the time to speak on the naming of this post office in Fowler, California on behalf of Cecil E. Bolt, who was the Postmaster there for many years. Today is a great day for the city of Fowler. Over a year ago, its City Council came to me and asked that we dedicate and name the post office at Fowler in honor of the Postmaster who served the city and community so well for so long. Fowler is a wonderful community in my district of just over 5,000 people. In fact, our colleague Congresswoman Jackie Speier’s mother was born in Fowler. Today, we name the Fowler post office in honor of Cecil E. Bolt. Bolt was born and raised on Idaho, but like many he came to California. After graduating from Boise High School, Gooding College, and Links Business College, Bolt moved to Fowler, California, in 1939. Just prior to World War II, he was drafted into the U.S. Army and was assigned to the 75th Artillery Unit in Alaska. Cecil was part of what Tom Brokaw affectionately called “The Greatest Generation”. In 1942, Bolt married the love of his life, Naomi Opal Gourley, and together they raised two loving daughters: Dorothy Jane and Kathy Jean. Bolt returned to Fowler after the war and was appointed Postmaster, a position he held for 27 years. He was known for his dedication and friendly demeanor; he even at times personally delivered packages to Fowler families on Christmas Eve. Everyone knew Cecil. His decades of public service extended far beyond the walls of the post office, which is a center of this community. Bolt volunteered every day for more than 17 years at Marshall Elementary School, where his service helped shape a generation of young people. He was also a faithful and active member of the Presbyterian Church of Fowler, where he also served as a Sunday School teacher and a Kids Club volunteer. For his service, he received Fowler’s “Citizen of the Year” award in 1969 and the “Silent Servant of the Year” award in 2004. Sadly, Cecil Bolt passed away in 2007. The city of Fowler and those who were lucky enough to meet him are undoubtedly better off thanks to the good service of Postmaster Bolt. Mr. Speaker, I ask that we pass the underlying bill without reservation to recognize Postmaster Cecil E. Bolt and his dedication to his family, the community of Fowler, and the United States Postal Service. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.”
12.12.2012	Washington, DC – Rep. Jim Costa congratulated the Central Valley California High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) for their recognition by the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP). Central Valley HIDTA was honored with an award for an Outstanding Marijuana Investigative Effort because of their role in Operation Mountain Sweep. The operation was an 8-week, multi-agency, multistate marijuana operation targeting illegal marijuana cultivation on public lands in 7 states, including California. “Central Valley HIDTA has been a cost-effective, vital part of our nation’s efforts to combat drug trafficking and violence,” said Costa. “Our local law enforcement officials and their state and federal partners have made our region safer and our community healthier.” Operation Mountain Sweep resulted in the arrest of 26 individuals as well as the eradication of more than 726,000 marijuana plants valued at more than $1.45 billion. The coordinated efforts of seven U.S. Attorneys, as well as support from ten HIDTAs in seven states (Arizona, California, Idaho, Nevada, Oregon, Utah, and Washington), were integral to the operation. Costa has strongly supported full funding for the HIDTA program. The track-record of the Central Valley HIDTA has proven that the program is an invaluable tool to assist law enforcement’s efforts to curtail drug trafficking.
11.29.2012	Washington, DC – Rep. Jim Costa announced the launch of his holiday card drive for active duty members of the military and veterans. Costa invites the people of the 20th District to write holiday messages for Valley veterans and service members who have been wounded in action. The cards will be delivered to veterans at the Fresno VA Medical Center and service members at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center. “During the holidays, let us take time to show our gratitude to those who have given so much for our country,” said Costa. “Many of our brave men and women will be spending the holidays away from their families while they are working on their recovery. I encourage the people of our Valley to get involved and let them know they are in our thoughts and prayers this holiday season.” Constituents are encouraged to drop cards off at Costa’s Fresno district office by December 15th. If mailing cards, please place them in a separate envelope and send to: Congressman Jim Costa “Holiday Cards for our Troops” 855 M St, Suite 940 Fresno, CA 93721 All cards should be unaddressed, signed, and placed in unsealed envelopes. Please refrain from purchasing or making cards that include glitter as they can aggravate health issues of ill or injured soldiers. The cards will be delivered in coordination with the American Red Cross and the Fresno VA Medical Center on behalf of the people of California’s 20th Congressional District. For more information, please contact Rep. Costa’s office at 559-495-1620.
11.27.2012	Washington, DC – Rep. Jim Costa expressed his extreme disappointment in the U.S. Department of Education’s decision to exclude Fresno Unified School District, Central Unified School District, and Sanger Unified School District as finalists for the Race to the Top-District Competition. The three cash-strapped school districts all serve high-need populations in the San Joaquin Valley. “Race to the Top’s primary aim is closing the achievement gap and improving performance for underserved students,” said Costa. “I have made clear to Administration officials that they have missed the mark on this decision to exclude Fresno Unified, Central Unified, and Sanger Unified from the final review process. The special needs of our students demand innovative approaches to help them complete high school and prepare them for life after graduation.” “All of these districts overcame great obstacles to complete their applications and worked together to put their students first. Should there be another round of applications, I will fight to ensure our Valley gets its fair share.” Nationwide over 372 applications were submitted for the Race to the Top-District Competition. Of those, 61 finalists were selected for the four-year grant program that will help prepare students for success after graduation. The Department expects to select between 15-25 winning applications before the end of the year.
11.16.2012	Calls for Congressional Action to Reform the RFS Washington, DC – Rep. Jim Costa blasted the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for denying requests to waive the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) despite skyrocketing feed prices caused by the current record drought. Governors, Congress, and a number of national organizations representing dairy, poultry, and livestock have called on the EPA for months to waive the RFS in order to provide feed price relief. In the announcement of their decision, the EPA stated that the agency had “not found evidence to support a finding of severe economic harm.” “Today, the EPA decided to put a flawed policy over the interests of hardworking Americans,” said Costa. “How many more dairymen, poultrymen, and livestock producers have to go broke before the EPA finally hears their calls for relief?” Since June, feed prices have jumped nearly 60 percent jeopardizing California’s $8 billion dairy industry. By the end of the year, the state may lose over 100 dairies due to bankruptcy, foreclosures, and sales. “This misguided decision demonstrates the need for real reform of the RFS if we want a level playing field for American agriculture,” said Costa. “Had the legislation Rep. Goodlatte and I introduced already been in place, dairy, poultry, and livestock producers would not be at the mercy of the EPA right now. It’s time for real reform because clearly this system is broken.” Last October, Rep. Costa introduced the Renewable Fuel Flexibility Act (H.R. 3097) with Rep. Goodlatte (R-VA). This legislation links the amount of corn ethanol required to fulfill the RFS to U.S. corn supplies. In years when the corn supply is tight, the Renewable Fuel Flexibility Act would serve as a “relief valve” and trigger an automatic reduction in the RFS. Had this legislation been in place the RFS would have been automatically reduced without the EPA taking administrative action.
11.08.2012	Fresno, CA – Rep. Jim Costa called for Members of the House to put the election behind them and take action on the bipartisan 5-year Farm Bill when Congress returns next week. “The campaign is over, and it’s time to get to work for our nation’s dairymen, farmers, and producers. While many in Washington were obsessing over election messaging, these groups have reiterated again and again that they need a Farm Bill. We had overwhelming bipartisan support in committee, and we will have the votes on the floor. The time for politicking is over; it’s time for smart policymaking that puts the nation first.” “Whether it’s providing crop insurance, reforming the Federal Milk Marketing Order, or extending the Environmental Quality Incentive Program (EQIP), the only vehicle to do so is the Farm Bill. Now, more than ever, our dairymen, farmers and ranchers need the certainly that only a five-year Farm Bill can provide.” The San Joaquin Valley that Costa represents is the nation’s richest agricultural regions. Growing nearly 400 different crops that are sold domestically and abroad, Fresno County alone generated $5.372 billion in cash receipts.
11.01.2012	Congressman Costa Understands the Policies Needed to Ensure Manufacturers Succeed WASHINGTON, D.C., November 1, 2012 – The National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) awarded Congressman Jim Costa (D-CA-20) the NAM's Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence at an event yesterday hosted by NAM member Cargill, Inc., at its Fresno, Calif., beef processing facility. Congressman Costa supported 76 percent of the policies identified by the NAM as critical to the success of manufacturing in the United States during the 112th Congress. "Cargill thanks Congressman Costa for ensuring that the manufacturing voice is heard in Washington," said John, Niemann, vice president and general manager of Cargill's Fresno facility. "It is leaders like Congressman Costa who know that manufacturers are drivers of economic growth, job creation and prosperity." "Manufacturers today compete in a global marketplace," said NAM President and CEO Jay Timmons. "It is critical that Washington creates policies to keep us competitive and maintain our mantle of economic leadership. Congressman Costa understands this and has consistently supported the pro-manufacturing agenda through his votes in Congress." "American manufacturing brings good paying jobs and economic growth to the Valley," said Costa. "From fighting for a fairer tax structure to supporting free trade agreements that open foreign markets to the products grown and made in America, I have and will continue to fight for manufacturing both in my district and nationwide. Growing manufacturing is a big part of rebuilding our economy. " These awards are based on members of Congress's votes on key manufacturing legislation identified by the NAM in the 112th Congress. These included key votes on issues such as energy policy, taxes and regulations, among others. Each key vote was selected by the NAM's Key Vote Advisory Committee, which is comprised of NAM member companies and associations. Members of Congress are notified in advance when key votes are pending and why the key vote designation has been made. The NAM is nonpartisan and does not endorse candidates. Voting records for all members of Congress and further details about NAM Key Manufacturing Votes are available here. -NAM- The National Association of Manufacturers is the largest manufacturing association in the United States, representing manufacturers in every industrial sector and in all 50 states. Manufacturing has a presence in every single congressional district providing good, high-paying jobs. For more information about the Manufacturers or to follow us on Shopfloor, Twitter and Facebook, please visit www.nam.org.
10.15.2012	Grant Will Replace 35 Long-Haul, High Emission Vehicles Fresno, CA – Rep. Jim Costa announced today that the San Joaquin Valley Unified Air Pollution Control District has received a competitive grant for $898,833 that will replace at least 35 long-haul waste vehicles. These funds were awarded by the Diesel Emission Reduction Act (DERA) program to reduce diesel emissions in the San Joaquin Valley. “Improving the lives and health of the people in this Valley hinges on us addressing our air quality and transportation challenges,” said Costa. “Replacing and retrofitting diesel vehicles has been a smart, cost-effective way to create immediate, tangible results. Building on our efforts and those of the San Joaquin Valley APCD, this grant moves our region closer to a future with clearer skies.” The San Joaquin Valley APCD will use these funds to replace waste transporting vehicles with newer, cleaner models that meet or exceed current emission standards. These vehicles which service low air quality areas, such as Kettleman City, are projected to operate for at least ten years and achieve up to a 97 percent reduction of PM and up to 94 percent reduction of NOx. Costa has long advocated for robust funding of the DERA program since its creation in 2005. Since the program was first funded, it has awarded over 500 grants nationwide that have reduced hundreds of thousands of tons of air pollution and saved millions of gallons of fuel. It was also announced today that California’s California Air Resources Board (CARB) will receive $454,899 for their efforts to retrofit school buses statewide. Through CARB’s partnership project with the San Joaquin Valley APCD, 37 heavy-duty school buses will install verified diesel particulate filters (DPF) that will reduce diesel emissions. CARB will also provide $322,101 in funds to support the retrofit. Over the life of the project, it is estimated to reduce 5 tons of PM, 7 tons of HC, and 43 tons of CO emissions. Through diesel emission reductions, the health of the children who ride these buses each day will be improved in the San Joaquin Valley and throughout California.
10.10.2012	Calls for Action while Interest Rates Remain Historically Low Fresno, CA – Congressman Jim Costa rolled out legislation today with Fresno realtors that will allow responsible homeowners to take advantage of current low interest rates on mortgages. The Responsible Homeowner Refinancing Act aims to remove barriers that keep homeowners from refinancing and level the playing field to allow banks to compete for borrowers' business. “Homeowners who have played by the rules deserve the opportunity to access current low interest rates,” said Costa. “We cannot continue to allow our economy and housing market to limp along the road to recovery. Now is the time for common sense solutions that put our families and communities first; my Responsible Homeowner Refinancing Act does just that.” There are nearly 13.5 million Americans who currently hold mortgages backed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that could benefit from refinancing. Recent changes to the Home Affordable Refinance Program (HARP) have offered some relief, but many barriers still exist that keep millions trapped in higher interest loans. The Amherst Securities Groups found in a recent study that HARP borrowers were paying more than half a percentage point higher than borrowers with other types of loans. “The California Association of Realtors® (C.A.R) thanks Congressman Costa for introducing this important legislation that will help millions of struggling homeowners refinance into affordable mortgages,” said C.A.R. President LeFrancis Arnold. “Allowing responsible homeowners to refinance will ensure (HARP) can be used to its fullest potential and reach every homeowner it was intended to reach.” In Costa’s Congressional District, up to 26,000 borrowers could save up to $2700 each year and up to 1.5 million borrowers throughout the state of California could see the same level of savings. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York has estimated that for every dollar a borrower saves in monthly payments by refinancing, nearly 50 cents of those savings is spent and helps stimulate the economy. It is estimated that up to 12 million borrowers nationwide could save a collective $34 billion per year through refinancing should this bill become law. “With this legislation, we’re protecting homeownership and taxpayer dollars at the same time,” said Costa. “Fewer foreclosures and defaults isn’t just good for our neighborhoods, it reduces the risk of Freddie and Fannie needing additional taxpayer assistance. It’s a win-win for families, our Valley economy, and our nation’s fiscal health.” Dan Hawkins, President - Fresno Association of REALTORS, added, "This is a wonderful addition to the current HARP program. It will assist homeowners including those with GSE loans to lower the interest rate and stay in their homes. This will benefit many borrowers who were not able to previously refinance.” Specifically, the bill eliminates hurdles to refinancing for homeowners who: · Cannot afford upfront fees or the cost of appraisals. · Have too much or too little equity to qualify for HARP. · Have a second mortgage and currently cannot refinance. · Have mortgage insurance and currently cannot refinance. Costa’s bill is the House companion to legislation that has been championed in the Senate by Sens. Barbara Boxer and Robert Menendez. As interest rates are expected to remain low, support has been growing for this legislation that would help reduce foreclosures, keep families in their homes, and protect taxpayer dollars. The Responsible Homeowner Refinancing Act has been endorsed by a broad coalition of groups representing borrowers, lenders, and financial institutions including the National Association of Realtors, California Association of Realtors, California Association of Mortgage Professionals, National Association of Hispanic Real Estate Professionals, Mortgage Bankers Association, and the National Association of Home Builders, among others. Click here for a PDF of the bill.
09.21.2012	Costa Calls on House Republicans to Cancel Recess, Keep Working Pass the Farm Bill and Tax Cuts for All Americans Washington, D.C. – Today on the House floor, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) called on House Republicans to cancel their recess and stay in session to finish work on critical legislation. After scheduling only eight days of votes between August 3rd and November 13th, the U.S. House of Representatives is adjourning for the November elections without taking action on several legislative priorities, including the Farm Bill and comprehensive jobs legislation. "Instead of doing the people's work, today we are walking away for the next 46 days without taking action on long list of unfinished business," Costa said in his prepared remarks. "Folks in America are wondering why we can't pass a Farm Bill, why we can't pass tax cuts for all Americans, and why we can't pass the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act. We need to cancel this recess and get to work." House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD) also spoke on the House floor today about Costa and the failure of the Republican House to allow a vote on the Farm Bill before recessing for the November election. "I want to recognize Mr. Costa who is from farm country. He understands the pain that is being experienced in farm country. And, he knows how terrible it is to have simply walked away, walked away from the House passed bill out of Committee and walked away from a bipartisan Senate bill. And I yield to my friend who is such a strong voice on this floor such an active member of the Ag Committee and such a proponent of farm country not only in California, which he represents, but throughout this country," Hoyer said. Click here to see video of Costa's remarks on the House floor. Some of the legislation that remains undone includes: Farm Bill Comprehensive Jobs Legislation A Big and Balanced Solution to Deficits Tax Cuts for all Americans Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act Postal Reform
09.17.2012	Fresno, Calif. – Rep. Jim Costa announced today that Fresno Unified School District will receive $160,000 from the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). This competitive grant will allow Fresno Unified to build the resources necessary to assist lawful legal residents with the naturalization process. “Every wave of immigrants adds to the diversity and strength of our country,” Costa continued. “As a nation of immigrants, we should do all we can to help people who follow the law become naturalized citizens. This award will help many who are legally here and already call this country home be able to attain citizenship.” 31 organizations in 21 states and the District of Columbia were awarded funds through Citizenship and Integration Grant Program this year. USCIS estimates that these organizations will be able to serve approximately 10,000 immigrants from countries around the world with the help of these funds.
09.13.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa was awarded the Guardian of Small Business Award from the National Federation of Independent Businesses (NFIB). This award is presented every Congress to the Members of the House and Senate with the strongest record of supporting economic growth and small businesses. “One of the best ways to create and support Valley jobs is to help our small businesses thrive,” said Costa. “That is why I have supported payroll tax cuts, tax incentives, and providing access to loans and investment dollars among other policies to help small businesses expand and grow their operations. There is far more that must be done to support economic growth in our Valley, but it’s clear that we all win when small businesses thrive.” Every two years, NFIB honors Representatives and Senators who have consistently supported pro-growth and free enterprise policies. Costa has received this award 3 times during his time in the House of Representatives.
09.11.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressmen Jim Costa (D-Fresno) and Jerry McNerney (D-Stockton) today introduced the Air and Health Quality Empowerment Zone Designation Act, H.R. 6378, to address the poor air quality in San Joaquin Valley. “Improving the lives and health of our children in the San Joaquin Valley requires that we continue to address our air quality,” said Rep. Jim Costa. “From creating the San Joaquin Valley Air Pollution Control District over 20 years ago to cosponsoring this legislation with Rep. McNerney today, I have long been a strong advocate for policies to enhance our air. We have made great progress, but especially as Valley kids go back to school it is obvious that we still have more work to do. Though there is no silver bullet to fix our air, this legislation gives us another tool to make our skies clearer.” The Air and Health Quality Empowerment Zone Designation Act targets areas with poor air quality and above average child asthma rates. Areas meeting these criteria could voluntarily request to be designated as empowerment zones eligible to receive federal grant funding. In exchange for federal support, pollution control districts in these areas are charged with developing and implementing plans to improve air quality and reduce asthma rates in the zone. “Here in the San Joaquin Valley, we have higher childhood asthma rates than other areas in California and around the country. Not only must we do something to address this critical public health issue, we need to work to mitigate the burden of the cost such health crises place on our community. Our kids deserve to be healthy, attending school, and living in a clean environment, and my bill will help to achieve this goal,” said Rep. Jerry McNerney. “I am pleased to be joined by my Valley colleague, Representative Costa, in working to improve our air quality in the San Joaquin Valley.” To be eligible, the area must meet specified national ambient air quality standards for ozone, have particular emission levels from agricultural sources, meet or exceed national asthma rates, and suffer from high unemployment rates. Recipients will match federal investment dollar for dollar. All of California’s San Joaquin Valley fails to meet national air quality standards. California’s San Joaquin Valley, which includes Fresno, Kern, San Joaquin, Stanislaus, Madera, King, Merced, and Tulare Counties, suffers from some of the worst pollution in both the state and Nation. Valley children miss hundreds of thousands days of school each year, and one in five children living in the Valley has asthma. Illnesses related to poor air quality cost the Valley approximately $3 billion annually.
09.11.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressmen Jim Costa joined a bipartisan group of Members of the U.S. House of Representatives and the Senate to echo their previous calls for the House to bring up the Farm Bill before it adjourns for the election. The current Farm Bill expires on September 30th when the nation’s agriculture policy will revert to 1949 levels barring the enactment of reauthorization legislation. “American farmers and livestock and poultry producers don’t work in our make believe Washington world, they live in the real world where no is not an option,” said Costa. “I’m tired of excuses and gridlock. Now is the time to do what American agriculture expects of us, roll up our sleeves and get to work. It’s that simple; we need a Farm Bill Now.” The bipartisan, bicameral group of over 20 lawmakers in attendance including Rep. Costa called for House Speaker Boehner to bring the bill to the floor before Congress recesses. There are eight legislative days left before the House adjourns. The Farm Bill Now rally brought together 89 national agriculture organizations including the American Farm Bureau Federation, National Farmers Union, Western Growers, Dairy Farmers of America, Milk Producers Council, United Fresh Produce Association, and the National Cattleman’s Beef Association. You can view photos from the Farm Bill Now rally here.
09.10.2012	Fresno, Calif. – Rep. Jim Costa announced today the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has awarded over $850,000 to three Valley airports for rehabilitation and renovation of their facilities. Firebaugh Airport, Hanford Municipal, and Delano Municipal were the recipients of the grants that will be used to upgrade their facilities and replace outdated equipment. “Our regional and municipal airports connect our Valley to cities throughout our state and beyond,” Costa continued. “This grant will create needed jobs and allow these airports to make necessary improvements that will boost capacity and protect the safety of passengers.” Local airports receiving funds: Hanford Municipal- $ 393,300 To rehabilitate the taxiway to improve safety and minimize debris. To replace the rotating beacon that has reached the end of its useful life. Delano Municipal- $300,000 To install a wildlife perimeter fence that will protect the airport from unauthorized and inadvertent entry and wildlife hazards. To rehabilitate existing apron pavement. Firebaugh Airport- $ 164,460 To continue to rehabilitate the taxiway to maintain structural integrity of the pavement.
09.05.2012	Creates Positions for 3 Additional Victim Advocates Bakersfield, Calif. – Rep. Jim Costa announced today that Greater Bakersfield Legal Assistance (GBLA) has received $400,000 from the Department of Justice’s Office on Violence Against Women. With this award, GBLA will collaborate with the Alliance Against Family Violence and Sexual Assault in order to strengthen its programs that provide legal assistance to victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking. “Long before their legal battle begins, victims of domestic violence have all too often been fighting in silence and need a place to turn,” Costa continued. “Since 1968, Greater Bakersfield Legal Assistance has been working to give survivors a voice in the court system and access to the justice they deserve. As the co-chair of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus, I have worked to ensure that organizations and local governments have the resources necessary to protect and assist vulnerable populations.” Incorporated in 1968, Greater Bakersfield Legal Assistance provides free comprehensive legal assistance and representation services to residents of Kern County. With this award, they will hire an additional full-time attorney, one part-time paralegal, and a full-time bilingual case manager. Costa serves as the co-chair and co-founder of the bipartisan Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus. The mission of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus is to elevate crime victim issues in Congress in a bipartisan manner without infringing on the rights of the accused, and to represent and to advocate before the Administration and within Congress on behalf of crime victims.
08.26.2012	FRESNO, CA- Congressman Jim Costa released the following statement today regarding the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service announcement ending the suspension of inspection at Central Valley Meat Co., Inc, thus allowing the plant to resume operations today. “At a time when we should be preserving and creating as many jobs as possible, I am pleased the almost 500 employees of the Central Valley Meat Co. can go back to work today,” Costa said. “The United States Department of Agriculture and the Coelho family must be commended for acting expeditiously to address the issues at the plant. “The management and employees at Central Valley Meat Co. took action to respond positively to meet their commitment to comply with the law,” Costa added. “I am confident that Central Valley Meat Co. will maintain its commitment and build a stronger business as they move beyond this situation.” Since learning of the investigation last week, Costa made restoring normal operations at the plant his top priority and spoke daily with officials at USDA and management at Central Valley Meat to achieve this resolution so the nearly five hundred employees in Hanford and Kings County could get back to work.
08.24.2012	FRESNO, CA- Congressman Jim Costa is urging the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to expedite their review process for concerns regarding inhumane treatment of animals at Central Valley Meat Co., Inc. Since learning of the investigation on Monday, Congressman Costa has made this his top priority and has spoken daily to officials at USDA and management at Central Valley Meat to help find a path forward for the plant which employs nearly five hundred in Hanford and Kings County to reopen as soon as possible. "We all want to ensure that animal welfare is protected, but we cannot lose sight of human welfare in this," said Costa. "There are hundreds of families in our Valley that are foregoing a paycheck while USDA works through their bureaucratic processes. While they are filing paperwork, these families are looking at bills pile up on their kitchen counters." Yesterday, Costa spoke with Kathleen Merrigan, Deputy Secretary of Agriculture about growing concerns of the economic impact that keeping Central Valley Meat shuttered could have on Valley families, businesses, and especially dairy producers. In light of the current drought and record-high feed prices, many dairies are increasingly relying on the processing plant to send unproductive cattle to stay afloat. "Central Valley Meat is doing their best to demonstrate their commitment to comply with the law," added Costa. "Our dairymen and women are in dire need of relief and processing plants like Central Valley Meat have become one of their lifelines. For the sake of our Valley economy, we need a resolution, and we need it fast."
08.17.2012	Now is the Time to Complete Kennedy’s Vision Fresno, Calif. – Rep. Jim Costa released the following statement in honor of the 50th anniversary of President John F. Kennedy coming to the San Joaquin Valley to break ground on the San Luis Project. Costa called on federal, state, and local officials to take the bold steps necessary to complete Kennedy’s vision by moving forward with the Bay Delta Conservation Plan (BDCP). “Fifty years ago, President John F. Kennedy came to Los Banos to break ground on the San Luis Dam and put forth a challenge to the people of our Valley and our nation,” said Costa. “Without their bold thinking and actions, the San Luis Dam never would have become a reality. And without the San Luis Dam, we never would have become the most vibrant agricultural region in the world.” “Kennedy challenged us to continue looking to the future, not the past if we want our region and our nation to thrive. Kennedy and Governor Pat Brown’s ingenuity and forward thinking forged their commitment to investing in our long-term water security, and that investment is still paying dividends. We are currently faced with the same opportunity to improve our water security, but we need that same dedication.” “Today we are closer than we have been in recent memory to providing real, workable solutions to our water challenges. Finishing the BDCP builds upon and completes Kennedy’s vision that with big dreams and consensus building this Valley can and will prosper. “I stand committed to work with Governor Jerry Brown and Secretary Salazar to see the BDCP cross the finish line. With the right combination of leadership, good faith efforts, and commitment to improving the lives of the people in our area, the next fifty years could be even more prosperous for our Valley and California.” You can view excerpts of Kennedy’s speech at Los Banos here.
08.16.2012	Fresno, Calif. – Rep. Jim Costa released the following statement on Fresno State President John Welty’s announcement that he would retire at the end of the 2012-2013 school year. Costa is 1974 Fresno State graduate and proud Bulldog who also serves on the Board of Fresno State’s Maddy Institute with President Welty. “As a proud alumnus, I can personally say that the modern Fresno State would not be what it is today without having had John Welty at the helm,” said Costa. “President Welty’s steadfast leadership since 1991 has led Fresno State through changing and challenging times in our state and our nation. From promoting diversity to engaging the community, Fresno State and our region as a whole have benefitted immeasurably from Welty’s vision and commitment to my beloved alma mater. I wish him and his family the best, and know that he’ll remember that once a Bulldog, always a Bulldog.”
08.13.2012	Washington, DC- Rep. Jim Costa, former House Majority Whip Rep. Tony Coelho, former speaker of the California Assembly Robert Hertzberg, and Assemblywoman Cathleen Galgiani joined together to express their deep appreciation for Rep. Dennis Cardoza’s years of dedicated service to the people of the San Joaquin Valley. The officials released the following statements. Rep. Jim Costa said, “My friend Dennis has long been a strong advocate for the people of the San Joaquin Valley and serving alongside him was an honor and a privilege. Dennis has always brought candor and dedication to finding real solutions that will be sorely missed in Congress. From bringing a UC to Merced to fighting to ensure that homeowner’s concerns were heard at all levels of the federal government to protecting Valley agriculture, Dennis’s legacy will be a stronger future for the Valley that he proudly served with such focus and commitment to the people he represented.” Former House Majority Whip and Central Valley Congressman Tony Coelho added, "I’ve watched Dennis since his city council days, all the way through to his work in the state legislature, and then on the federal level. In all of these phases, he excelled because of his ability to represent his people and work with both political parties. As a result, at the national level he was able to rebuild the Valley’s political influence in the Congress. The Democratic leadership worked with him -- and even depended on him -- at all levels, and his position was helpful to his constituents." Former Speaker of the California Assembly Robert Hertzberg said, “UC Merced would not exist today if it were not for Dennis Cardoza. No person worked harder on any issue than did Dennis on UC Merced. His work was determined, forceful, focused and he did not accept excuses. Dennis’s efforts regarding UC Merced are leadership at its best. Every graduating class -- and the Central Valley as a whole -- owe a huge debt of gratitude to Mr. Cardoza. He is a true champion for them.” Assemblymember Cathleen Galgiani said, “I have had the pleasure of working with Dennis for over 16 years on many important issues for the Central Valley. We worked closely together on the development of UC Merced, the Highway 99 Prop.1B funding, the California High-Speed Rail as well as efforts to benefit the agricultural industry and water needs of our area. Since the housing market crash in 2007, in which our area has been one of the hardest hit in the nation, Dennis and I have co-sponsored numerous Foreclosure Prevention Workshops and supported State and Federal legislation to assist and protect homeowners. These have been difficult times and Dennis has been a source of strength to me personally and as a partner deeply committed to making a difference for the people of Merced, Stanislaus and San Joaquin Counties. As a constituent and a colleague, I thank Dennis for his years of good work on our behalf and I know he will continue to be helpful to our communities in whatever capacity he can. As a friend I wish he and Kathie and their children good health and happiness in this new chapter in their lives.”
08.05.2012	FRESNO,CA - Rep. Jim Costa released the following statement in response to the shooting at a Sikh Temple in Milwaukee. "The Sikh community has made many contributions to our nation. The tragedy that occurred today affects all Americans. Our thoughts and prayers go to those who lost their lives, those who were injured, and their family and friends. In our San Joaquin Valley, we stand together in support of all the Sikh communities who are in mourning. Since 9/11, the Sikh community has had to endure discrimination as a result of the lack of understanding to the positive force that Sikhism is nationwide. Hopefully the silver lining on this dark day will be a greater understanding about the Sikh faith and culture. Let us remember all Americans embrace religious freedom that is guaranteed under our constitution."
08.02.2012	Washington, DC- When House Republicans offered a temporary disaster relief bill today, Rep. Jim Costa called for real relief for farmers. The House voted to advance H.R. 6233, the Agricultural Disaster Assistance Act of 2012, which would offer some disaster relief to farmers but fails to offer American and Valley agriculture the sort of certainty that only a five-year Farm Bill can. Costa opposed the measure because there is no acceptable replacement for the bipartisan Farm Bill. “This drought relief package is more about giving Republican Leadership relief when they go back to their districts in August than helping out our nation’s farmers, ranchers, and dairymen,” said Costa. “There is no denying that action is needed to offer relief, but the best action is passing the Farm Bill. If they were serious about helping agriculture, we would be voting on the Farm Bill that won overwhelming support in the Agriculture Committee. Instead, we are working on patchwork measures that are more about politics than policy.” The drought extension was opposed by a number of national and California agriculture organizations because they agreed with Costa that passing this bill would hurt the chances of Congress approving a five-year Farm Bill. Groups opposing H.R. 6233 include the American Farm Bureau Association, Western Growers, National Milk Producers Federation, United Fresh Produce Association, and the National Corn Growers Association among others. Costa also took to the floor to offer an amendment that would protect American taxpayers and farmers by guaranteeing that all assistance would be limited to U.S.-owned agriculture producers and prevent duplicative payments. In their haste to pass this legislation, Republican Leadership failed to include critical taxpayer protections that typically exist in the Farm Bill. His amendment also included a sense of Congress that it is imperative that the House approve the Farm Bill before the current law expires on September 30th. The amendment failed on a largely party line vote. Costa said on the floor, “Most importantly this amendment gives every member here an opportunity to take a position on what ironically can be called the elephant in the room: that is, when is the House going to consider a 5-year farm bill to provide certainty and security to rural America?” Had the House voted instead to approve the Farm Bill, the House and Senate could have gone to the conference committee during the August recess. This would have allowed ample time for compromise legislation to be crafted so both chambers could quickly approve the Farm Bill when they return from the district work period in September. Costa has been pushing for the House to bring up the Farm Bill because it would bring real certainty to one of the bright spots in the American economy, agriculture. On July 11th, the House Agriculture Committee approved the 2012 Farm Bill with an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 35-11. Traditionally, the Farm Bill has been one of Congress’s most bipartisan efforts.
07.31.2012	Washington, DC- Rep. Jim Costa announced today that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development has awarded more than $4.5 Million to Fresno County and the City of Hanford. The funding was made available through HUD’s Community Development Block Grant (CDBG), HOME Grant, and the Emergency Shelter Grants (ESG) programs. In March, Costa joined a bipartisan group of lawmakers to urge that the U.S. House Appropriations Committee maintain funding for CDBG in 2013. “As we continue to rebuild from the damage of the housing crisis, these programs help cash-strapped communities meet their long- and short-term housing and economic development needs,” said Costa. “The release of these funds will help keep a roof over our neighbors’ heads and put people back to work revitalizing our neighborhoods.” Fresno County received almost $3 million through the CDBG program for a wide range of activities intended to create suitable living environments, provide affordable housing and create economic opportunities. Hanford also was awarded $416,835 through the CDBG program for similar efforts. The program primarily benefits low- to moderate-income families in more than 1,200 American cities. In addition, Fresno County received $839,933 through the HOME program, which provides grants to states and localities to fund a wide range of activities to build, buy and/or rehabilitate affordable housing for rent or homeownership or provide direct rental assistance to low-income people. State, local, and private entities are eligible for funding through this program. Fresno County also was awarded over $300,000 through the ESG program for homelessness prevention and re-housing efforts. State, local, and private entities are eligible for funding through this program.
07.31.2012	Washington, DC- Rep. Jim Costa supported extending tax cuts for Valley families, businesses, and farmers who without action will see their taxes increase on January 1st. This legislation will extend the current tax rates another year. “When I go home to Fresno, what I hear most from families, farmers, and businesses is that they need certainty,” said Costa. “Instead of focusing on the art of the possible, the debate over the nation’s tax policy has focused on the art of scoring political points and brinkmanship. In the absence of comprehensive reform, extending tax cuts for families and small businesses while at the same time protecting family farmers from a bump in the estate tax is the responsible thing to do. ” Costa has long supported comprehensive tax reform that will simplify the tax code so it makes sense for all Americans. Real reform requires all options to be put on the table, not singling out or helping one constituent or industry group over another.
07.26.2012	Washington, DC- Rep. Jim Costa announced today that the City of Delano has been awarded a $2.8 million loan from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to build a new multipurpose community center. The new 13,000 square foot facility will replace the current community center that is over 40 years old and include a gym, basketball courts, and stage. “Making our cities more appealing to families is a major factor in attracting businesses to invest in our Valley,” said Costa. “With this loan, the city will be able to move forward with their new community center that will provide entertainment and meeting space for the people of Delano.” HUD’s Section 108 Loan Guarantee program boosts communities’ economic development efforts. These low-interest loans provide funds for economic development, housing rehabilitation, public facilities, and large-scale physical development projects. To date, there has not been a single default on repayment of Section 108 Loans.
07.25.2012	Washington, DC- Rep. Jim Costa applauded Governor Brown and Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar announcement today that laid out a path forward for the Bay Delta Conservation Plan (BDCP). In their announcement, state and federal officials stressed that the status quo is unsustainable for both the health of the Bay Delta and the economies of the California communities that rely on water from state and federal projects. “Our water system is broken, but we are on the right path to bringing long-term water security to California,” said Costa. “Governor Brown and Secretary Salazar’s welcome announcement reiterates their commitment to moving forward with real, comprehensive solutions. Until my constituents no longer have to fight tooth and nail for every drop of water, I will keep fighting for the completion of the BDCP. We must grow our water supply for California’s economic success in the 21st century.” Last week, Congressman Costa joined Congressman Cardoza in a letter calling for state and federal authorities to make the tough decisions necessary to move the BDCP forward. Costa has long supported the completion of the BDCP to restore balance and health to California’s broken water system. The plan would help meet long-term water needs of the San Joaquin Valley. For more information about the Bay Delta Conservation Plan, please visit https://baydeltaconservationplan.com.
07.23.2012	Washington, DC- U.S.Rep. Jim Costa announced today that the city of Fresno will receive $2.3 million and Kings County will receive more than $900,000 to make necessary improvements to their public transit systems. The funds were awarded through the U.S. Department of Transportation’s State of Good Repair Program, which aims to maintain and improve the nation’s bus and rail systems. Fresno Area Express (FAX) plans to use the funds for the purchase of 6 new buses that will accommodate additional passengers and reduce emissions. Kings County will use the grant to replace vans in their vanpool fleet. “Here in our Valley we face both transportation and air quality challenges, and we are meeting those challenges with innovative approaches to public transit,” said Costa. “The new buses and vans will build on the efforts of the city of Fresno and Kings County to reduce emissions and increase the efficiency and effectiveness of their services. These grants are a win for making our commutes easier and our air cleaner.” The FAX funding will be used for the purchase of new Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) buses that will replace older buses in order to reduce emissions and fuel costs. FAX is the largest mass public transit system in the San Joaquin Valley. Kings County Area Public Transit Agency's vanpool is an innovative approach in the absence of time-efficient public transportation service to provide Kings County and Valley residents with a way to reduce the cost of their commute and improve Valley air quality. Kings County is the oldest and largest public commuter van program.
07.19.2012	FRESNO- Congressman Jim Costa, Fresno Mayor Ashley Swearengin, and California Sens. Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer today announced that the Federal Transit Administration has selected Fresno to receive a $2.45 million Bus Livability Grant aimed at improving the connection between downtown Fresno and the City’s Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) system. The grant will fund the design and construction of a prominent, attractive, and accessible downtown stop at the center of the 13.8-mile BRT system that extends outward along the Ventura/Kings Canyon and Blackstone corridors. The grant will also fund the creation of a signalized intersection at Van Ness Avenue and Mariposa at the street level, and improvements to pedestrian lighting and the rebuilding of a bathroom in the tunnel and underground parking garage directly below. These improvements will ease movement in the busy downtown center between Courthouse Park and Fulton Mall. On an average day at the location, 2,000 riders board the bus lines that will become the BRT routes, 4,800 pedestrians walk to and along Fulton, 567 cars park in the underground garage, and 876 cars drive up and down Van Ness during the evening rush hour alone. “This grant will put our people back to work building a safer, more vibrant downtown that will attract businesses and visitors to our community,” Congressman Costa said. “This is a big win for downtown Fresno.” “This grant is great news for downtown Fresno,” Mayor Swearengin said. “We’ve spent the last few years planning the infrastructure needed for downtown revitalization and the BRT system that will bring people there. Today’s award shows that when we put the right plans in place, the federal government, just like the private sector, is compelled to invest in our downtown and our community.” “This grant will greatly improve pedestrian safety and enhance Fresno’s transit system, an important step in revitalizing the downtown area. I am always pleased to support federal projects in California that create jobs and make critical improvements to local infrastructure,” Sen. Feinstein said. "I am delighted that these funds will help accelerate the revitalization of downtown Fresno by improving transportation and pedestrian access for local residents,” Sen. Boxer said.
07.19.2012	Washington, DC- Rep. Jim Costa announced today that the California Veterans Assistance Foundation has been awarded $175,000 to help promote housing stability among low income veterans in Bakersfield and Kern County. The funds were awarded through the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs’ Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) program. The California Veterans Assistance Foundation will use the funds to assist 70 households. “Stemming the tide of homelessness among veterans and their families starts with keeping them in permanent housing,” said Costa. “The California Veterans Assistance Foundation is on the frontlines of combating homelessness among veterans in Bakersfield and Kern County. This grant is another step in our efforts to ensure that every veteran and their family have a place to call home.” Debra Johnson, President of California Veterans Assistance Foundation, Inc. added, “CVAF is honored to be able to bring another component of financial assistance to at-risk and homeless veterans in our community. We are also pleased to work with Flood Bakersfield Ministries staff, who will be assisting us with the operations of the grant. We know that there is an increasing number of veterans in Bakersfield that live on low-incomes that struggle with paying deposits to get into housing and who rely on supportive service agencies to maintain their existence. Thank you to all of the agencies and organizations that provided letters of support to CVAF to get this funding.” Under the Supportive Services for Veteran Families program, grant awardees will offer assistance to help very low income veterans and their family members stay in their homes. The funds can be used for outreach, case management, assistance in obtaining VA benefits and assistance in getting other public benefits.
07.18.2012	Washington, DC- Reps. Jim Costa and Dennis Cardoza called on state and federal officials to show leadership and find a workable solution to complete the Bay Delta Conservation Plan (BDCP). In light of anticipated announcements about the project in the coming weeks, Costa and Cardoza urged officials to find a balance between improving the water supply and restoring the Delta ecosystem. Costa and Cardoza cautioned that without their active leadership and engagement, completion of the BDCP may become unviable. “As state and federal officials make decisions about how to best move forward with the BDCP, they must remember the high stakes of failure, a return to the time of judges picking winners and losers in the courtroom where everyone loses in the end,” said Costa. “Now is the time for real leadership to meet the long-term water supply needs of every region of the state.” “It is imperative that the Bay Delta Conservation Plan strikes equilibrium between water supply demands and the restoration of the California Delta,” said Cardoza. “Too much is at stake for this to fail, and it will if it does not reach the right balance between these interests.” Full text of the letter is below. July 16, 2012 The Honorable Ken Salazar Secretary U.S. Department of the Interior 1849 C Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20240 The Honorable Rebecca Blank Acting Secretary U.S. Department of Commerce 1401 Constitution Ave., N.W. Washington, D.C. 20230 The Honorable John Laird Secretary California Natural Resources Agency 1416 Ninth Street, Suite 1311 Sacramento, CA 95814 Dear Secretary Salazar, Acting Secretary Blank, and Secretary Laird: As the letters you are receiving from a wide variety of public officials and stakeholders reveal, there is strong support for your efforts to complete the Bay Delta Conservation Plan (BDCP). This letter adds our voices to that chorus, but also makes a finer point. As others have stated, the BDCP must follow the best available science and the highest standard of public involvement. We are confident that under your leadership, the BDCP will meet those standards. But, we believe an equally important point is that the BDCP must do more than comply with the relevant state and federal statutes; it must also make business sense in a way that balances the Delta’s value as a water supply for millions of Californians with its status as a unique ecosystem. The BDCP will not be implemented unless it finds the balance point where improved water supply co-exists with environmental restoration. We encourage you to actively manage your respective staffs to reach that balance point. Too often state or federal agencies with limited missions lose the ability to “step back” and see the broader picture. As leaders and policymakers, it is your responsibility to see that the larger goals of California’s water supply and the Delta’s ecosystem are balanced. Please do not expect your technical staffs to accomplish that without your active leadership. As public officials with decades of experience, it is clear to us that the broader balancing required to finish the public draft of the BDCP falls on your offices. If the costs of the project are too high or the water supply available from it is too low, or if the environmental actions are insufficient, then we have failed to find that right balance point. To be viable, the BDCP will need to provide enough water supply and regulatory assurance to attract the necessary financial investment, and it will need to provide enough environmental protection and restoration to allow the regulatory agencies to issue the necessary permits. These are not decisions that can be made by your technical staffs. They can only be made by you, using the knowledge you have acquired from careers of managing and balancing the sometimes competing scientific information your staff provides with larger state and federal objectives. We all have heard comments from many stakeholders about delaying or ending the BDCP. We do not believe that either is the right approach. If the BDCP stalls or fails, we will return to a world of extended litigation and the associated Delta dysfunction that results when every stakeholder wins a few and loses a few. Only the fish lose them all. As the BDCP nears a decision point for many, including your agencies, we encourage you to recognize the choice presented to you. Following the recommendations from well-meaning staff members at agencies with limited missions will not add up to a workable plan. Showing leadership, by taking the input and crafting a plan that balances the water supply and Delta restoration goals, will create a plan that can succeed by achieving the broader interests of California and the nation. We sincerely appreciate the dedication and effort you have put into the BDCP. If we are successful California and the nation will be better served in the decades to come by the balance you strike. If we can be helpful to your efforts in any way please do not hesitate to contact us. Sincerely, JIM COSTA DENNIS CARDOZA Member of Congress Member of Congress
07.16.2012	Washington, DC- Rep. Jim Costa announced today that Valley law enforcement will receive over $360,000 to support a wide range of activities intended to control and prevent crime based upon local needs and concerns. The funds were released by the United States Department of Justice through the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program (Byrne JAG). “Byrne JAG grants allow local law enforcement to take the actions necessary to prevent and control crime in their communities,” said Costa. “The funds for Valley counties and cities will go to work hiring additional deputy district attorneys, scaling up crime prevention programs around local businesses, and purchasing needed equipment. These dollars will go to good use helping local law enforcement fight crime and keep our Valley safe.” Local agencies receiving funds: City of Arvin- $11,991 To purchase communications equipment that will bring the department to current standards and enhance officer and community safety. City of Bakersfield- $160,568 To assist in the implementation of a comprehensive program to address crime in and around the Bakersfield metropolitan business district. City of Hanford- $13,602 To purchase in-car patrol vehicle video systems, which are invaluable to patrol officers for video based evidence and transparency in law enforcement actions. City of Parlier- $10,304 To purchase tactical equipment and support overtime for the Gang Suppression Tactical Team. Kern County- $150,060 To fund one Deputy District Attorney assigned to the Vertical Prosecution Program, which has a track record of improving conviction rates, reducing victim trauma, and providing more consistent sentencing. Kings County- $13,500 To purchase desktop and laptop computers for supervising parolees. The Edward Byrne Memorial JAG Program funding can be used for state and local initiatives, prosecution and court programs, technical assistance, training, personnel, equipment, supplies, contractual support and information systems for criminal justice.
07.12.2012	Washington, DC- Just before 1 am Thursday morning, the House Agriculture Committee voted on a wide bipartisan basis to advance the 2012 Farm Bill. Rep. Jim Costa joined 35 of his colleagues on the committee in supporting the measure that will set the nation’s agriculture and nutrition policies for the next 5 years. “The American people expect Congress to work together in a bipartisan fashion to provide certainty and stability to our economy,” said Costa. “Early this morning, the Agriculture Committee did just that for our farmers and producers. Now, there are only 12 days left before the August recess to approve this Farm Bill and move it to conference with the Senate. If House Republican Leadership is serious about protecting one of the brightest spots in our economy, agriculture, now is the time to act.” The Farm Bill that cleared the committee included many victories for Valley farmers, ranchers, and dairymen. Among others the bill adds: Over $100 million increase to the Specialty Crop Block Grants Program over the life of the 2012 Farm Bill to strengthen the market for the specialty crops we grow in our Valley like fruits, vegetables, and nuts. $450 million over 10 years for the Specialty Crop Research Initiative (SCRI) to encourage the development of new technologies and improved efficiencies in the production of specialty crops. Over $100 million increase to the Plant Pest and Disease Management and Disaster Prevention Program over the life of the 2012 Farm Bill. The Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) that provides monthly benefits to help low-income families put food on the table. Costa voted to restore $16.5 billion in cuts to the program that was defeated in a largely party-line vote. After that, an amendment was considered and also defeated that would have replaced the House nutrition title with the more moderate, bipartisan Senate version, which would have only cut $4.5 billion from the program. During debate of this amendment, Costa gave a passionate speech about his days volunteering with Big Brothers, Big Sisters in Fresno and the dire need for the benefits in his district. “When I was at Fresno State I was in Big Brothers, Big Sisters, and I had a little brother, Philip Yancy,” said Costa. “He was 15 years of age. I remember very clearly the third or fourth month that I was his mentor that he was enormously hungry. And I said, ‘Philip you look really hungry today’. He looked down at his shoelaces and he said, ‘Well Jim we ran out of our food stamps two days ago, and all I had was the school lunch program’. A fifteen year-old kid gets pretty hungry at the end of the month.” Costa also offered an amendment that would have reauthorized the $37.5 million from the 2008 Farm Bill for efforts to improve air quality on agricultural lands under the Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP). This proposal mirrored the amendment that was offered and passed by Senator Feinstein to the Senate version of the Farm Bill. The amendment was supported by the California Farm Bureau, Western Growers, the Nisei Farmers league, the San Joaquin Valley Air Pollution Control District, and other agricultural and environmental organizations throughout the state of California and nationwide. Costa assured his colleagues that he would continue working for the inclusion of air quality provisions in the final legislation. In addition, Costa offered two amendments to support innovative programs, like the Fresno Bridge Academy, that encourage long-term self-sufficiency and independence by preparing SNAP recipients for employment through work-related education and training activities. Costa withdrew his employment and training (E&T) program amendments with the assurance that the committee would continue to work with him to include the provisions before the Farm Bill is considered on the House floor. As the legislation moves forward and the full House of Representatives considers the Farm Bill, Costa will continue to fight to make sure that farmers, ranchers, and dairymen are able to continue to do what they do: growing the safest, best agricultural products in the world.
06.28.2012	Protects Small Truckers and Students Washington, DC- Rep. Jim Costa supported the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (MAP-21), a two year highway bill reauthorization, which had been held up in negotiations between the House and the Senate for months. Costa scored a victory for Valley motor carriers by successfully inserting language to provide small and mid-size truckers the flexibility necessary to remain competitive. The bill also extends the current 3.4% interest rate on federal student loans, saving students thousands of dollars in interest over the life of the loan. “At the final hour, Congress finally came together to pass legislation that will create jobs for our Valley residents and some certainty for communities, construction workers, and students,” said Costa. “Today we voted in a bipartisan fashion to invest in our bridges and roads and our young people.” The version of MAP-21 that originally cleared the Senate contained provisions that would reduce wide-spread fraud in the trucking industry. Specifically, the bill increased the cost of the broker bond from $10,000 to $100,000 in order to crackdown on bad actors in the broker and freight forwarding industries. However, the fraud-fighting provisions also required all motor carriers to register as a broker – and purchase the broker bond - if the trucker engages in the standard industry practice of “subhauling.” Though the increase in the bond was a welcome change, Costa raised concerns regarding the new bonding requirement with the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee back in February. Given the seasonality of the trucking industry, agricultural, and intermodal carriers occasionally subhaul with other registered motor carriers to get their goods to market efficiently during the busiest times of the year. Costa rallied support for the inclusion of an exemption in the broker registration requirements for motor carriers who subhaul with other registered motor carriers. Costa’s proposed language was included in the final version of the bill, which cleared the House today. The California Trucking Association shared similar concerns and supported Costa’s amendment. “The new bonding requirement would have increased shipping costs and jeopardized peak seasonal freight transport,” said Costa. “Working together we were able to maintain the much-needed fraud protections while preserving the flexibility necessary for small truckers to compete.” “With this critical fix to the transportation bill, small and mid-size trucking businesses can continue moving goods safely and efficiently across the Valley and the country,” said Bud Wallace, a member of the Board of Directors of the California Trucking Association. “We applaud Congressman Costa and all our Congressional allies who fought so hard to maintain the flexibility Valley businesses need to stay competitive.” In addition to the highway bill reauthorization, the legislation also prevents the July 1st hike on the interest rates for federally subsidized student loans from 3.4% to 6.8%. This increase would have cost 7 million students an average of $2,800 in additional interest over the life of their loans. This legislation extends the current interest rates for one year.
06.27.2012	Washington, DC- Rep. Jim Costa released the following statement following the Supreme Court’s ruling to uphold the Affordable Care Act. “Health reform was not a perfect bill, but the status quo was unacceptable. Costs were rising and continue to rise, coverage was becoming harder to obtain, and over 40 million Americans were without health insurance, yet we are still paying for their care. I support Americans having access to the care they need when they need it. That includes those with insurance and those struggling to obtain it. Now that the Court has ruled, we must come together in a bipartisan fashion to do the hard work of examining health reform to see what works and to improve or replace what doesn’t. The decision gives some certainty to individuals, businesses, and health care providers. It’s time now that we bring the country together to focus on the economy in order to create more jobs.”
06.25.2012	Department to Hire 1 New Officer Fresno, CA- Rep. Jim Costa announced today that $125,000 has been awarded to the Mendota Police Department from the Department of Justice’s Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS). The funds from the COPS Hiring Program (CHP) will allow the police department to hire 1 additional officer. “Since the beginning of our economic downturn, many of our communities have seen a rise in violent crime at the same time that the city’s budgets are being reduced,” said Costa. “COPS grants help our police departments build and maintain their forces so they can help keep our streets safe. This year’s grant also utilizes the special skills our veterans learned while on active duty by requiring that new hires must have served in the military.” CHP grants cover 75 percent of the salaries and benefits for hiring new full-time officers or rehiring officers who have been laid off due to local budget cuts over a period of 3 years. This year’s grant program specifies that new hires must be military veterans that have served at least 180 days of active duty on or after September 11, 2001.
06.21.2012	Fresno, CA- Rep. Jim Costa announced today that Avenal Community Health Center has been awarded $920,000 from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The grant is from the Health Cluster Grant program, which provides funds to improve facilities and boost capacity in rural areas. “Our rural communities throughout the Valley often struggle with access to affordable, quality care,” said Costa. “Every day, the staff at Avenal Community Health Center work to ensure that the families in their community receive excellent primary care. This grant will allow them to continue providing health services to those who are the most in need.” Avenal Community Health Center serves the people of Kings County. This grant will allow them to expand their operations to low-income, rural families in our Valley.
06.19.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives approved legislation that bundled 14 different land management bills into a single package. Despite qualms with a number of the provisions in the package and the process for consideration on the House floor, Costa supported the legislation citing that it contained legislation that would bring additional water to the Valley by allowing the modification of the Exchequer Dam spillway. Costa was an original cosponsor of the stand alone legislation to modify Exchequer. “During my entire career, I have always put bringing water and jobs to our Valley first and today was no different,” said Costa. “These bills should have stood on their own merits and been considered as such. Instead, this was another example of a ‘gotcha vote’ that put politics above progress and good public policy. Despite these major flaws, bringing more water to our Valley has and always will be among my highest priorities.” The lands package, H.R. 2578, also contained a provision that would create a 100-mile zone along the northern and southern U.S. borders within which the Department of Homeland Security would be able to seize control of federal forests, parks, wildlife refuges, monuments, tribal lands, and hunting grounds. The alleged reason for this provision is that conservation efforts stop Customs and Border Protection (CBP) from taking action to curb illegal immigration. This assertion is contrary to the repeated testimony from representatives of CBP and federal land management agencies who have previously told the Natural Resources Committee this was not the case. In the event that conflicts occur, procedures are already in place resolve these differences in order to protect our borders. “If Congress was serious about immigration reform, we’d pass comprehensive immigration reform rather than using scattershot measures that do little to deal with the real issues,” said Costa. “There is no place for immigration reform in land management bills, period. I have always supported comprehensive immigration reform to deal with the flaws in our immigration system, provide a stable workforce for our agricultural community, secure borders, and protect our citizens.” Earlier today, Costa took to the floor to show his support for provisions that would bring additional water to the Valley and grazing on public lands. Costa also expressed his disappointment at the approach House Leadership used to move this legislation. Below is the full text of Rep. Costa’s floor speech on this legislation earlier today: Thank you Madame Speaker. I rise today to speak in opposition to the rule for HR 2578: The Conservation and Economic Growth Act. But first, I want to thank the gentlewoman from New York for allowing me some time to speak on what I think are some of the good things in this package. Unfortunately some of the elements of this package I think are not the appropriate way we should be debating the challenges of immigration reform in the House of Representatives. First, these bills should be taken on their individual merits, not as a package. If we consider them together, we should then have an open rule that would allow us to then debate the merits of each individual bill. Now some of the bills contained in HR 2578 are helpful to my constituents and I’ve supported them in the past. As an example, the measure offered by Mr. Denham allows the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to consider spillway improvements on the project by the Merced Irrigation District (Exchequer Dam). This would allow us an expansion of the capacity of the McClure reservoir; some 1,800 feet of the Merced River would be impacted but as a result of it we would gain perhaps as much as 78,000 acre/feet of water supply, which is much needed in the San Joaquin Valley. That is the good portion of this package. There are also other areas that I support: language within the bill to provide certainty to the grazing community that I am an original cosponsor for. Grazing public lands provides opportunities for America’s beef industry that is very essential and very important. However, this bill also contains controversial provisions that would be damaging to my constituents. H.R. 1505 gives the Customs and Border Patrol authority to waive numerous laws pertaining to federal law management. It’s just not the protection of those lands, its farmlands, its coastal zone management, mining, public health, and public safety. HR 1505, as I was indicating, would waive numerous laws that pertain to very important elements of not only the coastal zones, but mining, public health, safety, and public review within 100 miles of the U.S. border. I oppose this measure because it is too sweeping in its efforts. This bill also blames border security problems on land management laws. We have challenges on our border no question about it. I’ve supported additional funding for the Border Control Agency; we must protect our borders. But to do so in a land management bill makes simply no sense. We should be taking up immigration reform, comprehensive immigration reform separately from land management bills. That is I think is the method that we ought to apply. I yield back the balance of my time.
06.19.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Jim Costa announced today that California Veterans Assistance Foundation, Inc., in Bakersfield will receive $121,000 from the U.S. Department of Labor’s Homeless Veterans Reintegration Program (HVRP). These funds were awarded on a competitive basis to state and local agencies and other organizations that provide assistance to reintegrate veterans into to the workforce. “Our veterans have invaluable skills, experience, and dedication that would be tremendous assets to any business or organization,” said Costa. “When they complete their tours of duty, we should be doing all we can to help get them back to work in our communities. The California Veterans Assistance Foundation provides veterans with the services and training they need to thrive once again in our workforce.” California Veterans Assistance Foundation President, Deborah Johnson, added, “CVAF is excited to bring a new employment component to homeless veteran services in Bakersfield. This new funding opportunity leads right into the national 5-year plan to end homelessness among veterans and CVAF will truly be a one-stop agency. Our programs will enable veterans to start with transitional housing, receive employment and training and obtain permanent housing. We also know that not any one program or agency can end homelessness among our nation's veterans, but through the assistance of our partners in the Kern County Homeless Collaborative, we are certainly going to try. This funding will be able to address the employment barriers a veteran has from an ID Card, Drivers License, work clothes, tools to training programs and finally job placement.” The Department of Labor announced more than $15 million in grants nationwide for the HVRP program today. The grants will allow homeless veterans to receive occupational, classroom and on-the-job training, as well as job search and placement assistance. HVRP is the only federal program aimed to help homeless veterans find employment.
06.19.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Jim Costa released the following statement in response to President Obama’s announcement that he had nominated David “Mas” Masumoto to the National Council on the Arts. “In an age when the art of the written word is dying, my friend Mas used words to keep the story of our Valley alive,” said Costa. “As a farmer and an author, he has grown and created things of beauty his entire life. His words jump off the page and give life to what is special about the place that we are proud to call home. His work offers a glimpse into the experiences of Japanese American immigrants and echoes the common experience and legacy of all immigrants to our Valley. He will be an invaluable asset to the National Council on the Arts. There is no more fitting testimony to his contributions to our nation and the San Joaquin Valley than this nomination.”
06.19.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, the Department of Agriculture announced that Kern and Kings Counties have been designated as agriculture disaster areas due to damage from freezing temperatures, hail, and high winds that occurred between March 1 and April 30th. Producers in Kern and Kings Counties now are eligible for consideration for federal assistance through the Farm Services Agency (FSA). "Early this spring, our crops were damaged significantly by hail and unseasonably cold temperatures," said Costa. "Secretary Vilsack's decision to declare Kern and Kings County as an agriculture disaster area paves the way for our producers to access the resources necessary for their recovery." Kern and Kings County producers are eligible to apply for FSA emergency loans (EM). Emergency loans are available to help producers offset their losses due to natural disasters. Up to 100% of the actual losses minus any other disaster related compensation can be borrowed by producers. Eligibility is determined based upon ability to repay the loan and other factors. All assistance applications must be completed within 8 months and additional information about the FSA disaster assistance programs available can be on this FSA document. Producers can contact the California Branch of the Farm Services Agency for further information by phone at (530) 792-5520 or by mail at United States Department of Agriculture, Farm Service Agency, 430 G Street, Suite 4161, Davis, CA 95616-4161.
06.19.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Costa welcomed the 20th District Art Competition winner, Sarah Fanucchi of Bakersfield’s South High School, and her family to Washington. Sarah’s painting is of her mother’s official portrait when she enrolled in the U.S. Air Force at the age of 18. Her artwork “18 on 18” will hang in the U.S. Capitol for a year. “Every year our Congressional Art Competition allows our Valley students to demonstrate their talents,” said Costa. “This year’s winner, Sarah, is an example of the best in our Valley. Not only has she displayed her artistic talents in this competition, but her artistic talents helped lead her to academic success.” From a young age, Sarah struggled with reading and math. It was only when a high school teacher at Bakersfield’s South High School recognized her artistic talent that she became excited about school. After this, Sarah’s grades improved and she began to excel in the classroom. In an email Sarah’s mother, Carrie wrote, “Art was, and I suspect always will be, her refuge. It was her place to begin to shine, her place in school to belong and relax.” Earlier today, Rep. Costa recognized Sarah for her achievements in a statement on the House Floor. He recognized Sarah’s perseverance to overcome learning challenges and succeed in the classroom. Costa said on the floor, “As I welcome her and her family to Washington this week, I applaud Sarah’s artistic feat, but her perseverance through her challenges is what I find most impressive about this young lady. The art and life she has created is something any parent or teacher can and should be proud of.” Since 1982, the Congressional Art Competition has honored the creative talents of thousands of high school students across the nation. Local competitions are voluntarily hosted by Members of Congress in their home districts. In June, the winning artwork is sent to Washington, and winners are invited to the Capitol for a ribbon-cutting ceremony and Congressional reception. The competition receives over 500 entries every year.
06.17.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Jim Costa announced today that Kern County and the cities of Bakersfield and Delano will receive $11.4 million from the Department of Housing and Urban Development for community development and assistance to the homeless. The funds were made available through the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program, the Emergency Shelter Grants (ESG) program and the HOME program. In March, Costa joined a bipartisan group of lawmakers to urge that the U.S. House Appropriations Committee maintain funding for CDBG in 2013. “Investing in our communities is a down payment on the future success of our Valley,” said Costa. “When the bottom fell out of the housing market, we saw far too many foreclosure signs spring up on our city streets and too many of our neighbors lose their homes. Programs such as these help our cash-strapped cities and counties revitalize these neighborhoods while putting our people back to work.” More than $8.1 million of these funds were released from the CDBG program, which enables state and local governments to undertake a wide range of activities intended to create suitable living environments, provide affordable housing and create economic opportunities. The program primarily benefits low- to moderate-income families in more than 1,200 American cities. The Emergency Shelter Grants (ESG) program provided more than $800,000 in funding, which can be used for a range of programs aimed at preventing and reducing homelessness. State, local, and private entities are eligible for funding through this program. The remaining $2.4 million of funding was released from the HOME program, which provides grants to states and localities to fund a wide range of activities to build, buy and/or rehabilitate affordable housing for rent or homeownership or provide direct rental assistance to low-income people.
06.14.2012	Fresno, CA– Rep. Jim Costa announced today that Fresno, Kern, and Kings Counties will receive $4.8 million under the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program as compensation for lost property tax revenue from non-taxable federal lands. Though the guaranteed funds for the PILT program expired last year, Costa has urged the Surface Transportation Reauthorization Conference Committee to extend the program. Fresno, Kern, and Kings Counties rely on these funds to help keep teachers, police, firefighters, and nurses on the job. "We benefit greatly from the conservation, recreation, and energy production that occurs on our public lands, but our counties miss out on the much-needed tax revenue," said Costa. "In light of recent budget difficulties, our Valley Counties need all the help they can get to keep teachers in the classroom and law enforcement on the street. This program helps our counties bridge the budgetary gap, and I will keep fighting to see this program extended." Fresno- $2,284,930 Kern-$2,498,911 Kings- $21,142 Local governments receive funding through the PILT program based on the number of acres of federal land within each jurisdiction and population.
06.06.2012	Fresno, CA– Rep. Jim Costa announced today that Fresno County Economic Opportunities Commission will receive $19.7 million for Head Start and Early Head Start programs in Fresno. "Head Start programs provide families with the services necessary to ensure their children are ready when they start kindergarten," said Costa. "I have long supported this program because it helps address many of the barriers that low-income children in our Valley face. It is imperative that Fresno children have the tools they need for academic success long before their parents snap their photos on the first day of kindergarten." Brian Angus, Executive Director of the Fresno Economic Opportunities Commission, added, "Fresno County EOC has provided Head Start programs in our community since 1968. We are attracting national recognition as a best practice Head Start model. We attribute our program success to our dedicated Head Start team including administration, teachers, and families. We know that investing in our youth, invests in our community." Head Start provides comprehensive early childhood education and development services to low-income preschool children on a part- or full-day basis. Under current law, Head Start funds are provided directly by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to local grantees, which must comply with detailed federal performance standards.
05.30.2012	Fresno, CA. – Rep. Jim Costa announced today that Maheep Gill, a senior at Fresno’s Sunnyside High School, was nominated and has been accepted to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Gill’s civic engagement and academic excellence, which places him in the top 5% of his class, led Costa to nominate him for admission to the Air Force Academy. Gill will be the first Sunnyside graduate to attend the Air Force Academy. “Maheep represents the very best of the youth in our Valley,” said Costa. “His dedication to his studies and his community set him apart from his peers, but now his commitment to serving his country puts him among the most elite of our nation. It’s an honor to nominate Maheep for a post at the Air Force Academy, and I’m sure he will make all of us here in the Valley proud.” During his time at Sunnyside, Gill has been active in student government, Key Club, and Science Olympiad. He is the son of Harry and Joytane Gill.
05.22.2012	Fresno, CA– Rep. Jim Costa announced today that Fresno will receive $2.2 million for improvements to public transit in Fresno. The funds were made available through the Department of Transportation’s State of Good Repair program which aims to provide reliable, safe transit services to riders. Fresno Area Express (FAX) will use these funds to purchase three new buses that will accommodate additional riders and produce fewer emissions. “These funds will provide the City of Fresno with a more modern and efficient Fresno Area Express,” said Costa. “The new buses will allow increased ridership and keep FAX on track in their transition to lower emission vehicles.”
05.17.2012	Washington D.C. – Rep. Jim Costa called on Department of Interior Secretary Ken Salazar to take action in order to bring greater water security to the San Joaquin Valley. In a letter, Costa stated that the status quo was not sustainable and expressed concerns that delays on decisions has created a cycle of planning with no end in sight. “Instead of continuing to just fill reams of paper with plans, we have to make tough decisions,” said Costa. “Despite all the good faith efforts and processes, my constituents still have to fight tooth and nail for every drop of water. Our water challenges did not start over night, but we cannot continue to wait for action. Every delay, including the most recent on the Bay Delta Conservation Plan, slows our Valley’s recovery and economic growth.” Costa’s letter comes on the heels of California Natural Resources Agency Secretary Laird made the decision to delay the release of draft public documents on the Bay Delta Conservation Plan (BDCP), from June to September of this year. This latest delay will likely also push future deadlines for environmental documents that were due in February of next year. Costa has long supported the completion of the BDCP to restore balance and health to California’s broken water system. The plan would help meet long-term water needs of the San Joaquin Valley. The full text of the letter is below. May 16, 2012 The Honorable Ken Salazar Secretary of the Interior Department of the Interior 1849 C Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20240 Dear Secretary Salazar: This letter is to call your attention to the water crisis that still exists in my District and throughout California. At a recent House Committee on Natural Resources oversight hearing on the President’s Fiscal Year 2013 Budget Proposal, you may remember me highlighting the fact that California was experiencing a very dry winter and heading for low water deliveries to south of Delta contractors in the San Joaquin Valley unless the Department of the Interior (Interior) took urgent and deliberate actions to secure more reliable supplies for the region. This year, projected water supply allocations to agricultural water service contractors in my District started out at 30% and have now only gone up to 40% of contracted amounts since April. While it may rain more throughout California this year and that number may eventually increase, it is safe to suspect that 40% is the number that farmers on the Westside of the Valley can take to the bank to secure loans and plan for the season. At the same time, many other contractors throughout the state stand at 100% of their contracted water supplies. Clearly, many challenges remain. With the last three year drought always fresh in our memory, I can’t help but question whether Interior is operating under the “lessons learned” category or starting to veer off course. With the help of our California Senators, Congressman Cardoza, and local water agencies, we set so many processes in place in 2009 and in the years since: the drought relief actions list, the interim federal action plan, the supplemental water supply initiative in 2010, actions for operational flexibility at the federal and state pumps, and even renewing efforts with respect to the Bay Delta Conservation Plan (BDCP) that will be the long-term solution to these challenges. Some of those efforts have borne fruit, such as the Intertie project that came online recently and the operational flexibility Interior exercised in 2010 which allowed the water supply allocation to increase. Yet, for all this planning and process, I would argue that my constituents still have had to fight tooth and nail for every single drop of water since the last drought. This does no justice to the vision that inspired our nation’s leaders to build the Central Valley Project to provide more reliable water and power supplies to a region that arguably would not exist without it. And it does not put us on a path to long-term recovery. Although I recognize that Reclamation Commissioner Mike Connor and Mid-Pacific Regional Director Don Glaser have been working very hard and I appreciate their engagement and willingness to work with me, I fear that we are not building on our previous efforts and are planning to no end. A most recent example was California Natural Resources Agency Secretary Laird’s decision – in conjunction with Deputy Secretary Hayes – to delay the release of draft public documents on the BDCP, from June to September of this year. As you know, this is likely to further push back any final environmental documents on the project that were targeted for completion in February of 2013. In the course of a six year process of the BDCP, a couple more months of delay may not appear to be a major cause for concern. But, if my thirty years of working on these issues has shown me anything, it is that “kicking the can down the road” hurts Californians and does a great disservice to our children and grandchildren who will be faced with even bigger burdens if we continue to wait. Just imagine how different California would have been today if we had built a Peripheral Canal when it first came before voters in 1982! And, yet here we are, still trying to perfect the science, be certain of every single contingency, and simply unable to make the toughest policy calls and have the leadership necessary to make this project a reality. Mr. Secretary, I recognize that our water problems did not develop overnight. In fact, I just came across a document from June of 2000 entitled, “California’s Water Future: A Framework for Action” that was developed by the Cal-Fed Bay Delta Program. This 57 page document was partially a response to the brutal 1987-1992 drought that similarly devastated the San Joaquin Valley and brought stakeholders to the table so we could “all get healthy together again.” In that very document, the relevant agencies were directed to develop a drought contingency plan to reduce the impacts of critical water shortages to water contractors. It discusses storage studies and infrastructure improvements, conservation, and basically all of the same things we talk about and plan for today. And, over a decade later, we’re still talking about and planning for the same things. We have to do more and we must move quickly. The status quo is not sustainable, and heaven forbid should an earthquake come and disrupt the conveyance system that supplies water to 25 million Californians. Now is the time for action, and I stand ready to support you if you are willing to use all of your discretion and best judgment to lead and make the most critical policy decisions affecting my constituents and California. Sincerely, JIM COSTA Member of Congress Cc: Secretary John Laird, California Natural Resources Agency
05.16.2012	Calls on House to ‘Stop this Charade’ Washington D.C. – Rep. Jim Costa called on House Republicans to abandon legislation that put politics above protections for women and children who are victims of domestic violence during consideration of H.R. 4970, a bill to reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). The law was originally enacted in 1994 and offers a wide range of services and support to victims of domestic abuse. “As co-chairman of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus, I believe we should be working to approve legislation that adds, not strips, protections for victims of domestic abuse,” said Costa. “Unfortunately, this partisan bill rolls back comprehensive protections for all vulnerable populations rather than reflecting the lessons we have learned from victims’ rights advocates and local law enforcement. Now is the time to pass the Senate’s bipartisan reauthorization and stop this charade.” Unfortunately, H.R. 4970 was approved today on a largely party-line vote of 222 to 205. The original legislation won wide bipartisan support as have the two reauthorizations since including the most recent in 2005. On April 26th, the Senate approved a bipartisan reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act with a vote of 68 to 31. The Senate version would offer protections for all victims of domestic violence whereas the House version plays politics at the expense and safety of vulnerable populations. Specifically, this legislation will remove protections for immigrant women, Native American women, and others who are victims of domestic abuse. Instead of expanding protections for victims this legislation rolls back previous provisions that have always received overwhelming bipartisan support. Costa serves is the co-chair and co-founder of the bipartisan Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus. The mission of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus is to elevate crime victim issues in Congress in a bipartisan manner without infringing on the rights of the accused, and to represent and to advocate before the Administration and within Congress on behalf of crime victims. Rep. Costa spoke before the House earlier today in opposition to the H.R. 4970, the House Republican legislation. Video of Costa’s remarks can be found, here.
05.16.2012	Washington D.C. – Rep. Jim Costa announced that the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA) has opened a competitive grant process for the operation of MBDA Business Centers to support Native American and Alaska Native businesses. The centers will focus on providing business consulting services to Native American businesses. “The funds from this program could provide a powerful boost to small businesses and entrepreneurs in our Valley,” said Costa. “The resources and support offered through the MBDA Business Centers will help companies create jobs and opportunity throughout our region. The Agency has already identified that it would like to locate a business center in California, and my hope is that it will be in the San Joaquin Valley.” The Agency has already identified that they would like to place a Business Center in Fresno, Bakersfield, Sacramento, or San Diego. Through this grant process the Minority Business Development Agency plans to open six Business Centers nationwide that will be located in areas that have a significant number of Native American and Alaska Native firms. The deadline for applications is June 13, 2012. Additional information about the grant process and application requirements, can be found here.
05.13.2012	Fresno, CA – Rep. Jim Costa released the following statement in response to the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation announcement today of a 40% water allocation for south of Delta agricultural water service contractors. The initial projection for 2012 was 30%. Following an extremely dry winter and spring, the 2012 Federal Water Allocation will be lower than the 2011 allocations for the Westside of the San Joaquin Valley. “In light of recent conditions, we have been pushing Reclamation to be flexible and increase the water allocation for our Valley,” said Costa. “While I appreciate Reclamation’s efforts, time is of the essence with land that is currently laying fallow and the effects on unemployment. I hope this announcement has come in time for farmers as they make financial and cropping decisions for this water year. It will provide some cost savings, but we need a better system to provide certainty to water users. I would urge the Department of the Interior and all other agencies to work with us on any further administrative action and legislation.” “This year is the 50th anniversary of when President Kennedy came to the Valley to break ground on the San Luis Dam. The vision that inspired our leaders to build out and expand the Central Valley Project and State Water Project is sorely needed today as we are constrained by regulations and changing hydrology from year to year. We cannot afford to wait another 50 years to bring stability and security to our water supply. We must work toward a long-term solution for our broken water system in California. Our future depends upon it.” Today’s announcement is the second official water allocation of Water Year 2012 for the Central Valley Project. Water supply updates are made monthly and can be found on Reclamation’s website at https://www.usbr.gov/mp/pa/water. Reclamation’s press release announcing the most recent 2012 Water Projections for the Central Valley Project can be found here .
05.04.2012	Fresno, CA. – Rep. Jim Costa announced that $5.3 million has been awarded to 5 Central Valley water districts to improve efficiency in water delivery, storage, and management. The funds were part of a cooperative program between the Agencies of the Department of the Interior (Bureau of Reclamation) and Agriculture (Natural Resources Conservation Service). “Everyday our farmers work to make sure that they make good use of available water,” said Costa. “These funds will help our water districts get that water to users more reliably and efficiently. The grants announced today are one more step towards meeting our Valley’s short- and long-term water needs.” The following water districts will receive funding: Tulare Irrigation District Canal Modernization Project, Phase II Reclamation Funding: $467,200, Total Project Cost: $934,400 The district will install flow measurement and automated delivery devices at the headworks of Packwood Creek, Evans Canal and regulating basins within the district. The project will improve water management capabilities within the district's canal system and facilitate flexibility to meet grower irrigation demands. The project will reduce system spills and is expected to save 1,355 acre-feet of water annually. Rancho California Water District Enhanced Agricultural Efficiency Program Reclamation Funding: $174,355, Total Project Cost: $350,382 The district will implement remote sensing technologies that include weather stations for localized evapotranspiration data and probes for generating soil moisture data. The project will provide more accurate data for estimating crop water requirements, improve irrigation scheduling and efficiency, optimize crop yields, and reduce soil erosion and deposition of fertilizer-borne pollutants into local surface and ground waters. The project is expected to conserve 276 acre-feet of water annually. Firebaugh Canal Water District Second Lift Canal Lining Project, Phase III Reclamation Funding: $500,000, Total Project Cost: $2,150,000 The project will allow concrete lining of 2.2 miles of earthen canal to prevent seepage, as well as eliminate high sediment loads in delivered water. By decreasing suspended silts, growers can reduce the back flushing and filtering needed for efficient farm irrigation systems such as drip, or sub-surface, drip irrigation. Through reductions in seepage, the project is expected to conserve 485 acre-feet of water annually. Central California Irrigation District East Ditch Reservoir and Santa Rita Canal Reservoir Project Reclamation Funding: $1,000,000, Total Project Cost: $3,700,000 The proposed project will construct two regulating reservoirs to capture operational spills and drain water from canals. The reservoirs will provide mid-stream storage to hold the captured water and release it back into the irrigation system as needed, improving delivery flexibility and providing more precise control of irrigation flows. The project is expected to conserve 12,000 acre-feet of water annually. Henry Miller Reclamation District Lower Arroyo Canal Modernization Project Reclamation Funding: $117,532, Total Project Cost: $239,350 The project will install five long crested weirs on the Lower Arroyo Canal. The weirs precisely control canal water levels and help prevent system spills. Installing the weirs will reduce water level fluctuations, providing more constant deliveries to improve reliability and flexibility of deliveries to growers. It will also promote accurate measuring and water accounting. The project is expected to conserve 4,750 acre-feet of water annually.
05.02.2012	Fresno, CA. – Rep. Jim Costa joined local, state, and federal elected officials for a celebration of the completion of the Delta-Mendota Canal/California Aqueduct Intertie Project. The Intertie pipeline and pumping station links the Delta Mendota Canal to the California Aqueduct. “Fifty years ago when President Kennedy broke ground on the San Luis Dam, he recognized that by working together can we accomplish much to meet critical needs and move the country forward,” said Costa. “Today, as we mark the completion of this long-delayed project, Kennedy’s words still ring true. Throughout my career, I have worked to bring greater water security to the San Joaquin Valley. This victory will bring more water to our Valley, but our fight is far from over.” Costa’s work to secure earmarks and Recovery Act funding helped make the Intertie project a reality. In the FY 2010 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill, Costa passed an amendment to provide an additional $10 million dollars for Valley water projects. Over $4 million of these funds were allocated to the Intertie. Costa helped secure $15.8 million in Recovery Act funding. “The Intertie was stuck in a bureaucratic backlog for years, but we kept pushing for funding for the simple reason that more water equals more jobs,” said Costa. “Through the Recovery Act and other federal funding we were able to make this project a reality.” Costa also called the completion of the Intertie a success but urged additional actions to bring greater water reliability to the Valley. “While the completion of the Intertie is a win for our Valley, there is much work to be done to guarantee that we get our fair share of water,” said Costa. “The spirit of cooperation that put the Intertie project back on track will be necessary for the battles ahead. Working together we can address our short- and long-term water needs from fighting bureaucratic processes that limit the water that flows into the Delta to larger projects like raising Shasta and building Temperance Flat.”
05.02.2012	Fresno, CA – Rep. Jim Costa released the following statement regarding the release of the California High-Speed Rail Authority’s revised 2012 business plan. “I want to commend the High-Speed Rail Authority and the Governor for listening to the concerns raised about high-speed rail,” said Costa. “Transparency, construction costs, ridership numbers and long-term funding have to be addressed to make the project viable. Mitigation in the Valley, especially for agriculture, must be a part of the solution.” “All major infrastructure projects, past and present, have had their share of controversy. Even the Bay Bridge had its naysayers. Costs, timing, and sustainability will always be a concern in undertakings such as this. Some of these critiques have also been leveled against projects to fix our water system like the Peripheral Canal in the Delta, adding storage capacity through projects like Temperance Flat and raising Shasta Dam. Yet the economic benefits of these projects cannot be ignored for California. The same will also be true of high speed rail.” “Since the beginning, I have called for transparency and accountability including my recent request for the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to complete a comprehensive audit of the project. The new business plan marks a willingness to incorporate and accommodate reasonable concerns to create a smarter plan that will get this project accomplished better, faster, and cheaper.” “The Spirit of America has always been having the vision to think big today in order to address the challenges of tomorrow. At the end of the day, if our nation is to move forward, we must be willing to invest in the future and invest in our infrastructure.”
04.24.2012	Washington, DC – Rep. Jim Costa released the following statement in response to reports that Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE) had been detected in a Central Valley dairy cow. This is the fourth case of BSE ever in the United States and the first in California. “Earlier today, USDA’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) reported that a 5 year old dairy cow in the Central Valley had contracted an atypical strand of BSE,” said Costa. “We know that this particular cow was never presented for slaughter so it is not and never was a threat to our beef supply. BSE cannot be transferred through milk so the dairy supply is also still safe for consumption.” “It is my understanding that USDA is currently on the ground investigating the matter and will continue to inform local, state, and federal officials as additional information becomes available. USDA is working quickly to gather all the facts about this particular case. There is no need for immediate alarm. I remain confident that USDA is doing all in their power to keep our food supply safe for human consumption.”
04.18.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressmen Jim Costa (D-Fresno) and Dennis Cardoza (D-Merced) announced that the University of California Merced’s Violence Prevention Program has been awarded the Allied Profession Award by the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus for their work in addressing sexual violence, dating and domestic violence, and stalking on campus. Costa and Cardoza will present the award to the director of the UC Merced program during a Capitol Hill ceremony tomorrow. This is first time that a victim assistance program within an institution of higher education has received this award. “The UC Merced Violence Prevention Program has provided a safe place for survivors to turn to during a traumatic time,” said Congressman Costa. “By working closely with law enforcement, campus advocates have been able to provide assistance and support to survivors on campus which has led to a drastic reduction in the number of unreported crimes in the community. As co-chair of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus, it is humbling to recognize our Valley’s tireless advocates for the rights of crime victims.” “I nominated UC Merced’s Violence Prevention Program for this award because of the remarkable work they have done in just a few short years to prevent crime and help survivors of violence recover,” said Congressman Cardoza. “This Violence Prevention Program has worked closely with the community and law enforcement officials to educate students with a positive and proactive approach that has proven itself incredibly successful.” The Violence Prevention Program at UC Merced was first implemented in 2010, and has already shown significant results. In just the two year span of the program’s existence, there has been a 1,250% increase by survivors of these crimes reporting to law enforcement – from an average of two reports per year to 27 reports in 2011 alone. This increase in reporting is attributed to the close relationship between the Violence Prevention Program and campus and community police officers. In addition to advocating for survivors of crimes, the program provides educational programs to UC Merced students. These programs are aimed at teaching students how to recognize signs of sexual and domestic violence, how to effectively respond to behaviors or attitudes that lead to these crimes, and how to help survivors access appropriate resources. Kari Mansager, Director of UC Merced’s Violence Prevention Program, said, “We at the University of California Merced Violence Prevention Program are deeply honored and humbled in receiving the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus Allied Profession Award. We are proud to work amongst colleagues and organizations around the world who share the same goal of supporting survivors of crime in their process toward healing and justice.” The Congressional Victims' Rights Caucus is a proven and effective leader in advocating for crime victims. During its six year existence, the Caucus has taken the lead in supporting programs that provide critical support for victim services throughout the nation, including those created by the Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) and Violence Against Women's Act (VAWA). The Caucus was also instrumental in the enactment of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006, the Cruise Vessel Safety and Security Act, and the Kate Puzey Peace Corps Volunteer Protection Act of 2011. The Allied Profession Award recognizes the efforts of individuals, organizations, and coalitions that directly benefit crime victims, but are not direct victim service providers. The award recognizes leadership, creativity, and commitment in improving the plight of crime victims across the nation. In March, Rep. Costa also nominated Candy O’Donel-Browne, President of the Board of Directors of Mountain Crisis Services, Inc. (MCS), for the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus’ Ed Stout Memorial Award for Outstanding Victim Advocacy, which recognizes individuals who use innovative approaches to directly serve victims and survivors of crime. O’Donel-Brown was chosen as a runner-up for this award because of her tireless advocacy on behalf of victims of domestic violence in rural communities throughout the San Joaquin Valley.
03.29.2012	Washington, DC – Rep. Jim Costa opposed partisan budgets put forth by both Republicans and Democrats, and called on lawmakers to set aside their differences to put the nation’s fiscal health first. In that spirit, Rep. Costa joined a bipartisan group of lawmakers led by Reps. Jim Cooper (D-TN) and Steve LaTourette (R-OH) in offering a budget alternative that mirrored the recommendations of the Simpson-Bowles Commission. “In this budget debate, Members of Congress had a clear choice: vote for a viable, long-term budget solution or stay in their ideological trenches,” said Costa. “Both the Democratic and Republican Budgets were merely for show because they lacked bipartisanship. The American people and the people in my district expect us to work together for real solutions, not pat ourselves on the back for passing bills that are merely sound bites. Thirty-eight lawmakers in the House were willing to do what was right for our country, and I hope their example will help my colleagues realize that bipartisanship is only way forward if we are serious about getting our fiscal house in order.” The Cooper-LaTourette Budget alternative would cut $4 trillion over the next decade by calling on shared sacrifice, not wreck less cuts. The reductions outlined in the budget framework would be enough to stabilize our fiscal house by 2015 and reduce our national debt below 70% by 2020. In November, 102 members of the House wrote a letter to members of the Joint Select Committee urging them to consider the Simpson-Bowles recommendations and keep all options for deficit reduction on the table, including spending cuts and revenues. Only 38 members of the House supported the Cooper-LaTourette Budget when it was considered for a vote. This was the first time that the recommendations outlined by the Simpson-Bowles Commission were put to a vote on the House Floor.
03.27.2012	Washington, DC – Rep. Jim Costa announced Kern County will receive will receive $125,832 to offer rental assistance and case management to 25 homeless veterans. The HUD-Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) program is a jointly administered program by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). “When one out of every six in homeless shelters nationwide is a veteran, we have failed to fulfill the sacred promise we as a nation make to our service members,” said Costa. “Fortunately, programs like HUD-VASH make strides toward guaranteeing that every veteran in our Valley and nationwide has a place to call home by providing comprehensive services to at-risk veterans. These funds will allow local VA officials and housing authorities to work together to offer support to our most vulnerable veterans.” Through the HUD-VASH program, homeless veterans receiving services through the VA can be referred to local housing authorities to obtain Housing Choice Vouchers for rental assistance. By combining case management from the VA and housing assistance, the program aims to give long-time homeless veterans the support needed to obtain and maintain permanent housing. Locally, the Kern County Housing Authority partners with the VA Community-Based Outpatient Clinic to provide support to eligible veterans with the help of HUD-VASH funds. “Our service members were called to defend our homes and families, and this program allows us to help our most vulnerable veterans and their families find a place to call home,” said Max Bacerra, Chairman of Kern County Housing Authority Board. “Working with the VA we are able to identify veterans in our community who need additional support and meet their needs. The funds provided through the HUD-VASH program will allow us to build on our efforts and move towards the goal of ending homelessness amongst those who once wore the uniform.”
03.27.2012	Washington, DC – Rep. Jim Costa announced Fresno County will receive $275,518 to offer rental assistance and case management to 50 homeless veterans. The HUD-Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) program is a jointly administered program by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). “When one out of every six in homeless shelters nationwide is a veteran, we have failed to fulfill the sacred promise we as a nation make to our service members,” said Costa. “Fortunately, programs like HUD-VASH make strides toward guaranteeing that every veteran in our Valley and nationwide has a place to call home by providing comprehensive services to at-risk veterans. These funds will allow local VA officials and housing authorities to work together to offer support to our most vulnerable veterans.” Through the HUD-VASH program, homeless veterans receiving services through the VA can be referred to local housing authorities to obtain Housing Choice Vouchers for rental assistance. By combining case management from the VA and housing assistance, the program aims to give long-time homeless veterans the support needed to obtain and maintain permanent housing. Locally, Fresno Housing Authority partners with the VA’s Central California Health Care System to provide support to eligible veterans with the help of HUD-VASH funding. “Being part of a military family, I understand firsthand the sacrifices that our service members and their families give to their country,” said Kendra Rogers, Fresno Housing Authority Commissioner. “We have used the HUD-VASH funds to honor that service and address the underlying challenges that lead to homelessness. These funds will allows us to continue our work with the VA to reduce the number of our Valley veterans living on the streets.”
03.12.2012	Fresno, CA – Rep. Jim Costa announced that he has nominated Candy O’Donel-Browne, President of the Board of Directors of Mountain Crisis Services, Inc. (MCS), for the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus’ Ed Stout Memorial Award for Outstanding Victim Advocacy. On April 19th, the Victims’ Rights Caucus will hold their annual award ceremony to honor outstanding individuals who have devoted countless hours of their time and service to helping victims of crime. Since 1990, O’Donel-Browne has been a tireless advocate for victims of domestic violence in rural communities throughout the San Joaquin Valley. “Candy is one of our unsung heroes who has tirelessly given of herself to guarantee that any victim of violent crime or domestic violence has a place to turn in our Valley,” said Costa. “Her passion and grace has given hope to survivors during traumatic times and to those of us who have had the privilege to know her work. As Co-Chair of the Victims’ Right Caucus, it is an honor to nominate her for this award.” Mountain Crisis Services, Inc. is the only agency in Mariposa and Merced Counties to provide comprehensive services to victims of domestic violence and sexual assault services free of charge. “During my 9 years of work with Candy, she has provided me strong mentorship, leadership, and support - all helping to lead to the success of our work at Mountain Crisis Services,” Chevon Kothari, Executive Director of Mountain Crisis Services. “She is always very quick to ask the essential question that sometimes gets lost as we go about our administrative work - “how does this impact victims?” That unwavering focus makes Candy the strongest victim’s advocate I know.” Costa is a co-founder and co-chairman of the bipartisan Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus, formed in 2005. The mission of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus is to elevate crime victim issues in Congress in a bipartisan manner without infringing on the rights of the accused, and to represent and to advocate before the Administration and within Congress on behalf of crime victims.
03.06.2012	Over 780 Acres of Valley Wetlands Set Aside to Protect Migratory Birds Washington, DC – Rep. Jim Costa announced that 783 Acres in the San Joaquin Valley have been added to the National Wildlife Refuge System for waterfowl and wildlife habitat protection. The decision by the Migratory Bird Conservation Commission will add 508 acres to the existing Tulare Basin Wildlife Management Area. “Defending our wetlands has the ripple effect of also improving water management and providing shelter for our diverse wildlife here in the Valley,” said Costa. “This unique public-private partnership strengthens natural habitats for the benefit of future generations.” The Tulare Basin is made up of freshwater lakes and saline wetlands that serve as a habitat for over 100 threatened or endangered plant and animal species. Preservation of wetlands, such as Tulare, helps improve and protect water quality, reduce flooding, and increase groundwater recharge areas. Wildlife Refuge acquisitions are funded by sales of Migratory Bird Hunting and Conservation Stamps, also known as Duck Stamps. Under the North American Wetlands Conservation Act (NAWCA), the refuges are maintained by a public-private partnership to manage, restore, and protect the wetlands and other wildlife habitats. Federal dollars are typically matched by three dollars in private or non-federal investments. Rep. Costa has long supported funding for NAWCA in order to protect wetlands in the San Joaquin Valley and nationwide. The Migratory Bird and Conservation Commission announced the following Valley Acquisitions today: · Tulare Basin Wildlife Management Area in Kern and Tulare counties, Calif.: 508 acres in easement for $971,233; · Grasslands Wildlife Management Area in Merced County, Calif.: 275 acres in easement for $570,000;
02.28.2012	Both lawmakers call for bipartisan collaboration to develop a bill that can actually pass the U.S. Senate Washington, DC – Reps. Jim Costa and Dennis Cardoza called for true bipartisanship to bring a real solution to California’s water challenges during consideration of H.R. 1837, the San Joaquin Valley Water Reliability Act, in the U.S. House of Representatives. Although Costa and Cardoza voted in support of the legislation, they cited a lack of bipartisanship as a warning sign that the bill stands little chance of clearing the U.S. Senate. Both lawmakers urged meaningful cooperation between Republicans and Democrats to bring forth legislation that could actually be signed into law and, in turn, bring additional water to the San Joaquin Valley. “Our very livelihood in the Valley depends on water so finding real solutions to our water challenges should be our top priority,” said Costa. “However, some made the calculation that scoring political points was more important than producing tangible results for our Valley. Rather than doing the hard work of reaching across the aisle to craft a truly bipartisan bill that could have been signed into law, we have passed legislation that is unlikely to see the light of day in the Senate.” “This bill, like so many others that we vote on, is far from perfect, but I supported it because of the many important provisions within it. Without an adequate water supply, agricultural fields go fallow and entire communities are laid to waste,” said Cardoza. “However, this is a perfect example of how dysfunctional Congress has become. It is a shame that even while knowing how important the water crisis is to the entire Valley and the state of California, the authors of this bill never engaged me, Congressman Costa, or Senator Feinstein in drafting a bipartisan piece of legislation that can pass both chambers of Congress.” H.R. 1837 is not the only legislation before Congress that would address California’s water challenges. Costa and Cardoza are both sponsors of H.R. 1251, the More Water for Our Valley Act, which would provide congressional direction for the implementation of the Endangered Species Act and restore balance to water management in California. The More Water for Our Valley Act would provide additional certainty to the Valley’s water supply while long-term solutions like the Bay Delta Conservation Plan are carried out.
02.21.2012	Let’s Not Make a Bad Situation Worse Fresno, CA – Congressman Jim Costa released the following statement in response to the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation announcement today of a federal water allocation of 30% for south of Delta agriculture water service contractors. In light of recent dry conditions in California, the 2012 Federal Water Allocation Outlook is far lower than last year’s initial forecast of 45% for growers on the Westside of the San Joaquin Valley. “In light of a bone dry winter, there will be less water in the entire system this year,” said Costa. “Regulatory flexibility is critical to maximizing the water supply for our Valley. Water is the lifeblood of our region and every drop of water we receive helps put people to work. I will continue to insist that federal agencies work with water users to ease regulatory restrictions so they don’t repeat the mistakes of 2009 and make a bad situation worse.” Water forecasts and initial allocations often improve as the water year develops. During 2010, Costa – along with other Valley lawmakers and leaders – was able to press the Administration to increase the initial allocation of 5% to more than 40% by the end of the water year through a series of administrative actions. “We’re going to do all that we can to make sure that the Valley gets its fair share,” said Costa. "Despite efforts to make good use of storage, Valley farmers cannot take an allocation this low to the bank. We have increased the water supply in dry years before, and I hope that working together we can do it again this year.” Today’s announcement is the first official water allocation of Water Year 2012 for the Central Valley Project. Water supply updates are made monthly and can be found on Reclamation’s website at https://www.usbr.gov/mp/pa/water. Reclamation’s press release announcing the Initial 2012 Water Projections for the Central Valley Project can be found here.
02.16.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) urged bipartisan cooperation on comprehensive solutions to California’s water challenges during the House Natural Resources Committee consideration of H.R. 1837, the San Joaquin Valley Water Reliability Act. Historically, the Central Valley has borne the brunt of sacrifices in previous California water compromises. While Costa voted to advance the bill out of committee, he renewed his call for the bill’s authors to work with Democrats in order to improve chances of actually delivering more water to the Valley. “Our historic water wars will not be resolved by standing in the trenches,” Costa said. “This legislation is not a silver bullet, but rather a work in progress. We all share the goal of providing a sustainable, reliable water supply for farmers in the Valley, but without genuine bipartisan engagement in the House and Senate, it will never bring another drop of water to the Valley.” Costa offered a commonsense amendment to authorize the expansion of the Shasta Dam to create a more sustainable water supply for the Central Valley by increasing water storage capacity. In working with the bill’s sponsors during the markup, alternate language was added to the bill that would provide for increased storage. Costa also pointed out that H.R. 1837 is not the only legislation put forth to address California’s water challenges. Costa urged the committee’s chairman to hold a hearing on legislation he introduced, H.R. 1251, the More Water for Our Valley Act, which would provide congressional direction for the implementation of the Endangered Species Act and restore balance to water management in California. Costa’s legislation would provide certainty to the Valley’s water supply while long-term solutions like the Bay Delta Conservation Plan are carried out. The remarks Costa delivered at the markup are below. H.R. 1837 is before us, and like any other piece of legislation we are dealing with, it is certainly not perfect. It is a work in progress, but I intend to support the legislation because of a number of important sections that I think it contains. This bill tackles many issues that I and others have been working on for many, many years. But, let me be clear: no one has done more than yours truly to bring water to the San Joaquin Valley in the near term and the long-term. From the completion of the Intertie, which has been operational as of last month: 35,000 acre-feet; the authorization of the Kern County Water Bank: 1.2 million acre-feet of water; the raising of the Kaweah Reservoir: 48,000 acre feet of water back in the late 1990s; the list goes on and on. I have been a fighter for water for our Valley for my entire career both in Sacramento and now here in our nation’s capitol. Titles I and III of the legislation aim to address one of the biggest challenges for water policy in California. In 2009 and 2010, not only did we have a hydrological drought, but we had a regulatory drought. Titles I and III go a long way, including the recent court decisions last year with the biological opinions to provide administrative clarity to allow us the flexibility necessary. This year we are at 18% of normal snowpack, last year we were at 174%. We need that operational flexibility. Who knows? We hope it will rain a lot in March. However, we are faced again with this potential challenge. The measure is similar in concept to legislation that I introduced with Congressman Cardoza last year, H.R. 1251 - the More Water for Our Valley Act of 2011. That bill seeks to provide Congressional direction with implementation of the Endangered Species Act as it relates to restoring a balance in water availability, which is sorely lacking. I would hope that maybe we can get a hearing on that bill. Title II of this measure repeals and replaces the San Joaquin River Restoration Act. It’s certainly going to be one of the most contentious provisions. Congressman Radanovich – who is no longer with us – and Senator Feinstein were asked after 18 years of litigation, when the parties that were a part of that litigation decided that it was better to reach an out of court Settlement Agreement to provide legislation to implement that Settlement Agreement. I don’t think Congressman Radanovich, Senator Feinstein or myself would have come up with the provisions that were a part of that Settlement Agreement. But, I believe in local government. And, when local government decided it was better, (i.e. the 22 water districts) to reach a Settlement Agreement than to let the court determine, then I have to respect the opinion of those 22 water districts. They asked them to introduce the legislation in 2006. It took three years to implement it. The Friant water users who put forth the water and the money in an effort to restore the salmon, according to the Settlement Agreement, continue, notwithstanding the provisions of this proposal, to uphold that Settlement Agreement. I will read to you a letter that they sent last year to the Chairman of the Subcommittee: “Title II of the H.R. 1837 would repeal the San Joaquin River Restoration Settlement Act and prohibit further federal participation in the San Joaquin River Restoration Settlement. The Friant Water Authority is a party to the Settlement as approved by the Federal Courts in 2006 and thus has a contractual obligation to comply with the Settlement and therefore opposes amendments to the Settlement Act that are not agreed to by the Settling Parties. Friant Water Authority will continue to fulfill its obligations under the Settlement so long as the other Settling Parties, including the Federal Government, continue to fulfill their obligations.” So, where are we? We have problems with the implementation of the Settlement Agreement. I have suggested to the Department of the Interior that they delay the implementation of the Settlement Agreement. There are third party impacts that aren’t being responded to. They need to be responded to. But, to simply repeal this, I don’t believe it’s going to solve a problem. Because guess what? I think they are going to be back in court the next day if this legislation were to become law. To be viable, you’ve got to include all the stakeholders. Title IV of this bill attempts to protect the water rights of other water users under the legislation by codifying those rights as a part of federal law. I believe there is an amendment from one of our colleagues that would make this simply apply only to California. I am concerned this may not be the best idea in the long term. It certainly, under federalism, does not respect states right in this instance and I think it is going to be problematic. Anyway, I am going to support this legislation. I believe it is going to pass the Committee and I believe it will pass House, but I’d like to make a note about the authors of this legislation: I don’t think they have a sincere interest in working, at least with me, or Congressman Cardoza or Senator Feinstein. We have had a long history of working on a bipartisan basis. It’s disappointing for me. It is disappointing for me, with the water challenges in California that traditionally and historically have not been partisan, but they have been regional. And, I tell my colleagues from other states unfortunately, we follow that Mark Twain adage about whiskey being made for drinking and water being made for fighting. I want to make a final comment here, Mr. Chairman. Senator Feinstein has been a champion along with many of us, in trying to fight for water for our Valley. She has not been involved, nor have I, in a constructive effort to try to work on this legislation. Let me make a prediction that unless we are willing to work together with the Senator, who has taken the lead on these water issues in the Senate, and with the Department of the Interior, this measure today as it is proposed will never become law. Therefore, it will never bring a single drop of water to our Valley, and it serves sadly and unfortunately as another political sound bite. I think we can do better for our constituents, by working together on a bipartisan, bicameral basis to develop and implement solutions both in the short-term and the long-term. These are the efforts that will really boost our water supply. Thank you for allowing me to extend my remarks Mr. Chairman.
02.08.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Jim Costa released the following statement following the announcement that California homeowners would receive $18 billion as a part of the multistate settlement to penalize mortgage servicing misconduct and robo-signing. “This settlement is a big win for hundreds of thousands of struggling homeowners across the state and especially in the San Joaquin Valley,” said Costa. “I applaud Attorney General Harris for her tireless work on behalf of California homeowners. However, this is no silver bullet, and there is far more that must be done to connect the dots and stabilize our housing market starting with passing the HOME Act. While our communities are being torn apart by foreclosures, some in Congress refuse to pass legislation that would put thousands of dollars in the pockets of millions of homeowners by allowing them to refinance at historically low rates.” Further details about the settlement from Attorney General Kamala Harris’ office can be found here. Costa is an original co-sponsor of H.R. 363, the Housing Opportunity and Mortgage Equity (HOME) Act of 2011, which will allow any borrowers with a Fannie- or Freddie-Backed mortgage to refinance their mortgages at historically low rates. The legislation would allow homeowners to lower their monthly payments and help Americans stay in their homes. This common-sense legislation would be little-to-no cost to taxpayers since fees for refinancing will be added to the mortgage.
02.07.2012	Madera Water Bank to receive $1.5 million Washington, D.C. - Rep. Jim Costa announced that water infrastructure projects in the Central Valley will receive $6.8 million in federal funds from the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation. The Madera Water Bank alone will receive $1.5 million to facilitate further construction of a groundwater facility that will store up to 250,000 acre feet of water for the region. In 2009, Costa joined with former Congressman Radanovich and Senator Feinstein to secure Congressional approval for the Madera Water Bank, which broke ground last year. Costa’s letter from December to Reclamation Commissioner Mike Connor urging funding for the water bank can be found here. “Reclamation’s announcement shows they are thinking outside the box to guarantee an adequate water supply for our Valley,” said Costa. “This funding is critical to make our projects more reliable and efficient, especially the Madera Water Bank. Water is the lifeblood of our Valley, and these funds mark the Bureau’s commitment meeting our short and long-term water needs. ” Funding was also provided for other South of Delta water projects to improve water reliability and upgrade pumping systems. Today, the Bureau announced that funding would be provided for the following projects: Water Conservation and Delivery at Madera Water Bank $1.5 million for the Friant Division (Central Valley Project) in California: This funding will reinforce users’ water supply by enhancing such features as reliability, affordability, reducing aquifer overdraft, and improving groundwater quality by acquiring refuge water for the current water year. The water will be credited toward the long term agreement with Madera Irrigation District for acquisition of 10,000 acre feet of storage in the water bank should Reclamation’s ongoing analysis show that the annual yield and cost per acre foot of banked water from the Madera Ranch Water Bank be competitive and justified in the current water market. Improved Water Supply Reliability Grants through CALFED $2.5 million for the Miscellaneous Project Programs (Central Valley Project) in California: This project will provide added funding opportunities within the CALFED Water Use Efficiency and Water Conservation Grant Program to complement/leverage Natural Resources Conservation Service funds for improving water supply reliability through water conservation or improved water management, improving energy efficiency and addressing endangered species and other environmental concerns. Improve and Maintain Jones Pumping Plant Systems $1.044 million is for Replacements, Additions and Extraordinary Maintenance (Central Valley Project) in California: These funds will support the contract for system replacement of an insufficient switchgear/breaker system so that the Jones Pumping Plant can operate at full capacity without restrictions, ensure continuity of operations and make it more safe and reliable. Engage Stakeholders in Environmental Compliance Processes $1.75 million for the Water and Power Operations (Central Valley Project) in California: These funds will support the completion of the National Environmental Policy Act and Endangered Species Act environmental compliance processes to comply with federal district court rulings on both the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and National Marine Fisheries Service Biological Opinions. Funds will be used to support development and analyses of various actions and alternatives and facilitation of a stakeholder engagement process in the preparation of any required environmental documents associated with at-risk species.
01.23.2012	Washington, D.C. - Rep. Jim Costa released the following statement in response to President Obama’s State of the Union Address. "For too long we have fought today's partisan battles instead of enacting common sense policies for the future," said Costa. "President Obama is right that we need to build for tomorrow in order to get our economy back on track. The President touched on a number of long-overdue proposals that I support such as modernizing our infrastructure, passing comprehensive immigration reform, and reducing our deficit, which will require this Congress and the Administration to cool down the rhetoric and come together.” “In the Valley, we felt the shock when the housing bubble burst more than most. The President outlined a proposal similar to the HOME Act, which I support and will help underwater homeowners refinance at historically low rates. I have urged the Administration to take meaningful action on housing and look forward to working with them to give Valley homeowners much needed relief.” “Other than a quip about spilled milk, we heard little about agriculture, one of the brightest spots in our economy. The impact of our farms and dairies goes far beyond the fields in the Valley and nationwide. Everyday our farmers face overly burdensome regulations and foreign competition, which threaten their ability to thrive. I will continue to urge the President and his Administration to address the needs of American agriculture, which is helping drive our recovery.” “Building for the future means preparing for the challenges just beyond the horizon. I hope that the President and this Congress can put aside the everyday partisan warfare and find real solutions to our collective challenges. The President spoke of American men and women who serve in uniform working together and called on all of us to remember that what unites us is far greater than what divides us – even in the midst of an election year.”
01.12.2012	Requests Commerce Secretary’s Direct Engagement in California Water Issues WASHINGTON, D.C. - Rep. Jim Costa released the following statement upon the announcement from the parties involved in litigation under the 2009 National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) biological opinion that they have came to an agreement on an interim operational criteria for the Central Valley and State Water Projects for the spring of 2012. “Today’s announcement lays the groundwork for further cooperation between federal, state, and public water agencies,” said Costa. “With December and January shaping up to be incredibly dry months for the state, this should be seen as only the beginning of an ongoing effort to secure sustainable water supplies for our region. More collaboration is needed as the fish agencies work to develop a new biological opinion that is based on sound science.” In anticipation of the parties filing the stipulation in the District Court, Costa sent a letter to Commerce Secretary John Bryson urging his leadership and direct engagement in California’s water issues in the days and months ahead. In the letter, Costa also encouraged greater cooperation between federal agencies to complete an integrated biological opinion for project operations. Costa requested a formal meeting with Secretary Bryson to discuss long and short-term solutions to California’s water challenges. Full text of the letter is below: January 11, 2012 The Honorable John Bryson Secretary of Commerce 1401 Constitution Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20230 Dear Secretary Bryson: First, congratulations again on your recent confirmation as Secretary of Commerce. As you know, our country continues to face enormous economic challenges. I look forward to working with you to strengthen the recovery of our economy and accelerate job creation in places like the San Joaquin Valley of California that I represent. Having worked together in the past, you may recall that throughout my career as an elected official, finding solutions to California’s ongoing water problems has been among my highest priorities. You may also be aware that beyond the economic recession, California’s historic water wars have continued to play out and reach a boiling point in recent years, with farmers, farmworkers, and farming communities in my District facing record unemployment numbers and persistent economic instability due to mounting regulatory restrictions and hydrological changes that have dramatically affected their water supply. The water crisis still exists, and with this in mind, I want to bring to your attention an important issue that will require engagement at the highest levels of your department. As we discussed a few weeks ago, restrictions have been placed on operations of the Central Valley Project and the California State Water Project by biological opinions issued by the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) dated June 4, 2009 and the Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) dated December 15, 2008. These biological opinions have resulted in substantial reductions to water supplies that support two-thirds of California, while benefits to listed fish species in the state have been far from certain. Since the biological opinions have been in place, I have been working tirelessly with federal, state, and public water agencies, and other stakeholders to develop and implement short- and long-term initiatives that will restore the water supply to our Valley while also protecting the fisheries. These have included pressing the Department of Commerce (Commerce) and the Department of the Interior (Interior) to use all available discretion and flexibility within the law to ease water restrictions that have slowed the Valley’s economic recovery. While initially met with resistance, high-level engagement has given staff within agencies such as the Bureau of Reclamation (Reclamation) and FWS the direction needed to find new ways within existing law to bring more water to the region. Every drop we have been able to secure is a step forward in our effort. However, we are nowhere near where we need to be at this stage of the process, especially within Commerce and its agencies. As one example, I have been a part of an effort for the past two years to get the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and NMFS to reexamine Reasonable and Prudent Alternative Action IV.2.1 under the June 4, 2009 biological opinion that has impacted water supplies to the Valley, but has been shown in numerous instances to have little to no scientific basis. Both the National Academy of Sciences and the United States Eastern District Court of California (District Court) have repeatedly called into question inflow to export ratios imposed by this Action. Yet, it was not until the District Court’s most recent decision to remand without vacatur the biological opinion that NOAA and NMFS would even begin to engage with the affected water agencies to identify an alternative solution to this Action. It is my understanding that the parties involved in the litigation soon may enter into a stipulation before the District Court that will set forth interim operational criteria for the Central Valley and State Water Projects for 2012 regarding Action IV.2.1 specifically. I also understand that Regional Administrator Will Stelle has been instrumental in this effort, which is helpful and appreciated. It is high time that NOAA and NMFS begin to work and engage with the water user community on a process that is so essential to the Valley’s continued economic viability, both in this case and on long-term initiatives such as the Bay Delta Conservation Plan (BDCP). At the same time, I am disappointed that the agencies would simply stop the discussion there after what the District Court had to say about the biological opinion as a whole. It is imperative that scientists and decision makers are held to the highest scientific standard as NMFS works to develop a new biological opinion as expeditiously as possible. The agency has lost ground throughout this process, and the public must have confidence that the new biological opinion is based on sound science. Moreover, with December and January proving to be dry months for California, further collaboration is needed if we expect to see real progress in 2012 and beyond. I respectfully request your direct engagement with NOAA and NMFS to continue to look for new and alternative means of implementing the law on behalf of listed species without further limiting water supplies to the San Joaquin Valley and Southern California. Additionally, on May 3, 2010, Secretaries Gary Locke and Ken Salazar wrote a letter to members of the Federal Bay-Delta Leadership Committee and put out a joint statement announcing their intention to develop a single integrated biological opinion that would address the BDCP and related water operations in connection with the two biological opinions. The letter included a near-term science strategy to inform interim water operations in 2011 as well as an integrated biological opinion strategy, coordinated through a task force comprised of NMFS, Reclamation, FWS, and the U.S. Geological Survey. This approach followed the National Academy of Sciences March 2010 assessment of the two separate biological opinions, which I worked with Senator Feinstein, Congressman Cardoza, and others to commission in 2009. Beyond a few press releases by the agencies that summer, I have received no indication whatsoever that Interior and Commerce are committed to developing an integrated biological opinion, despite my repeated requests to agency leaders and staff for an update since the announcement. Mr. Secretary, this should be a “no brainer” for Commerce. With California’s water system operating in a coordinated fashion, it only makes sense that the agencies would work hand in glove together to develop a single biological opinion for project operations. A candid response on the status of this matter would be much appreciated. We are at a critical moment, and it is my hope that you will work hard to give California’s broken water system the attention it deserves. In this vein, I would like to meet with you within the next couple of weeks regarding these issues. My staff has reached out to your office to set up an appointment that fits within your schedule. Thank you for your consideration, and I look forward to speaking with you soon. Sincerely, JIM COSTA Member of Congress Cc: The Honorable Jane Lubchenco, Under Secretary and Administrator for NOAA
01.03.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Reps. Jim Costa (CA-20), Zoe Lofgren (CA-16), and Laura Richardson (CA-37), co-chairs of the California High-Speed Rail Caucus, sent a letter Tuesday to the Government Accountability Office (GAO) in support of conducting a study on the long-term feasibility of the California high-speed rail project requested by House Republicans in December. The letter urges GAO to provide transparency and oversight of California’s high-speed rail project by consulting with an array of expert witnesses whose views were left out of previous reviews, like the one conducted by the California Legislature’s Legislative Analyst’s Office in May. The lawmakers requested that in reviewing high-speed rail’s feasibility, GAO include a comprehensive review of the ability of California’s current transportation system to accommodate its booming population and the comparable cost of updating other modes of transportation. Costa, Lofgren and Richardson were joined in sending the letter by two top Democrats on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee as well six additional California Democrats. Costa, Lofgren and Richardson released the following statements: Rep. Jim Costa- “We all agree that transparency and oversight are critical to any major infrastructure project. This letter simply asks that the Government Accountability Office conduct a comprehensive analysis that puts the facts, not politics, first.” Rep. Zoe Lofgren- “The investment in California High-Speed Rail will provide immense benefits to the state of California. This project should be treated like any other infrastructure project and we welcome a comprehensive review by the GAO. We look forward to a thorough review that includes input from many individuals and stakeholders and looks at all aspects of the project.” Rep. Laura Richardson- “A project of this scale deserves a thorough and open review process to ensure accountability and fairness for all parties involved. Our request reiterates the need for an extensive review by consulting the experts that are knowledgeable on every aspect of this project.” Complete text of the letter: January 3, 2012 The Honorable Gene L. Dodaro Comptroller General of the United States United States Government Accountability Office 441 G Street, NW Washington, D.C. 20548 Dear Mr. Dodaro: It has come to our attention that the Government Accountability Office (GAO) has received a request to conduct a study of the California high-speed rail project. We agree that transparency and oversight of this important infrastructure project is necessary and appropriate. It is incumbent upon GAO to utilize all of the expert information available as it examines the project. We believe a thorough review of the California high-speed rail project should include close consultation with a range of experts on critical aspects of the project. These should include, but not be limited to, the following individuals: Dr. Frank Koppelman, chairman of the independent Ridership Peer Review Panel, which was commissioned to review the preparation of the updated ridership and revenue forecasts included in the California High-Speed Rail Authority’s (Authority) draft business plan. California Assemblymember Cathleen Galgiani, the author of Proposition 1A, the $9.95 billion bond measure that California voters approved in 2008. U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood and Federal Railroad Administration Administrator Joseph C. Szabo, whose staff worked closely with the Authority in drafting the draft business plan. Furthermore, in order to prepare a comprehensive review of the project, we request the study include: The use of the federal definition of high-speed rail (“nonhighway ground transportation…which is reasonably expected to reach sustained speeds of more than 125 miles per hour” [49 USC Sec. 26105]) when comparing the California high-speed rail project costs and viability to other high speed rail projects in the United States. An assessment of California’s ability to accommodate the expected population growth over the next 40 years on existing transportation systems. A comparison of the federal, state and local government subsidies required for the operation and maintenance of other modes of transportation, including by locomotive, airplane, and car, available to travelers in California. A review of federal, state and local government efforts to construct a true high-speed rail system in the Northeast Corridor. This review should compare total cost in year-of-expenditure dollars, dedicated funding from states and municipalities, and expected private investment in the Northeast Corridor to those of the California high-speed rail project. Thank you for your consideration of our request. Please do not hesitate to contact Andy Flick with Congressman Jim Costa’s office should you need further information. Sincerely, Rep. Jim Costa Member of Congress Rep. Zoe Lofgren Member of Congress Rep. Laura Richardson Member of Congress Rep. Nick Rahall Member of Congress Rep. Corrine Brown Member of Congress Rep. Dennis Cardoza Member of Congress Rep. Barbara Lee Member of Congress Rep. Bob Filner Member of Congress Rep. Karen Bass Member of Congress Rep. Mike Honda Member of Congress Rep. Adam Schiff Member of Congress
12.19.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa released the following statement in response to House Republicans blocking a vote on bipartisan legislation to extend expiring provisions and give Congress time to approve a longer-term solution. H.R.3630, the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2011, cleared the Senate with a vote of 89 to 10. Specifically, the bill would prevent a $1,000 tax increase on the average American family, extend unemployment benefits, and protect seniors’ access to health care professionals. “On January 1st, middle-class families throughout the Valley will face a $1,000 tax hike since the House failed to act on legislation that won by an overwhelming margin of 89-10 in the Senate,” said Costa. “Some in the House are more committed to their ideology than finding bipartisan solutions for their constituents. Rather than acting responsibly, some have chosen to play a high-stakes game of chicken on the backs of American families who will now face greater uncertainty at the holidays.” Currently, employees contribute 4.2 percent of their salary to Social Security. Failure to approve legislation extending this provision, the rate will revert to the previous level of 6.2 percent on January 1st. This increase would impact 160 million middle-class Americans. “No one disagrees that we need a long-term agreement on these provisions, but it is irresponsible to let them lapse in favor of brinksmanship,” said Costa. “Approving the two month extension does not take a long-term deal off the table, but it does protect workers from a tax hike in 12 days.” H.R. 3630 also includes a short-term extension of Unemployment Insurance Benefits. Furthermore, it prevents a 27.4 percent cut in Medicare physician payments putting seniors access to health care in jeopardy. In addition, H.R. 3630 requires the Administration to make a decision on the stalled Keystone XL Pipeline within 60 days. Costa has long supported the pipeline as a way to create jobs and provide greater energy security to our nation.
11.20.2011	Fresno, CA – Congressman Jim Costa released the following statement in response to the announcement by the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction- commonly referred to as the Super Committee- that no agreement had been reached on a plan to address the nation’s debt. “I am very frustrated but not surprised by the Super Committee’s failure to reach an agreement given the entrenched positions in both caucuses,” said Costa. “I will continue to fight to ensure that commonsense prevails in getting our nation’s fiscal house in order. Truly, a majority of Americans believe that common ground can be found without both parties taking such absolute positions. The Simpson-Bowles framework would be a good place to start. Congress must do better; the American people deserve better.”
11.17.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa voted Friday in support of a bipartisan amendment to the U.S. Constitution requiring the federal government to maintain a balanced budget. Costa is a co-sponsor of the Balanced Budget Amendment and spoke on the House floor to make the case for getting our nation’s fiscal house in order. “For far too long, Washington has ignored the fiscal health of our nation,” said Costa. “This week bipartisan calls to restore sanity to federal spending have grown stronger. A Balanced Budget Amendment or the success of the Super Committee alone are not enough to restore our fiscal well-being. But by combining these goals with a bipartisan commitment to shared sacrifice and balancing our budget each year, we can build a sound fiscal future for the next generation.” The Balanced Budget Amendment (House Joint Resolution 2) would require the President to submit a balanced budget proposal to Congress each year and for Congress to adopt a budget in which outlays never exceed revenues. Although the legislation received a majority of votes in the House, it failed to meet the two-thirds threshold required to pass. Costa, a member of the fiscally conservative Blue Dog Coalition, has been a long-time advocate for restoring fiscal responsibility and accountability to the federal government. Costa has joined a bipartisan group of more than 100 representatives in urging the Super Committee to make a real down payment on our national debt. The lawmakers urged the Super Committee to go beyond its mandate of $1.2 trillion to find $4 trillion in deficit reduction through examining all possible options, including spending cuts and revenues. Costa took to the House floor today to urge passage of the Balanced Budget Amendment and future cooperation between the two parties in order to reach a compromise for the long-term fiscal health of the nation. Click here to see video of the Congressman’s floor speech. His remarks as prepared for delivery are below: Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the Bipartisan Balanced Budget Amendment. And I want to thank my colleagues, Congressman Goodlatte, and others who have worked on this effort. I would also like to urge my colleagues that this is the time we need to come together to act on behalf of the better interest of our nation. Clearly, the majority of the citizens I represent in the San Joaquin Valley agree that Washington needs to get its fiscal house in order. We all want a balanced budget, but too few are willing to make an agreement that will move us toward that goal. That’s why the passage of the Constitutional Amendment requiring the federal government to live within its means is an important step. But it is only a step. To balance our budget, members of both parties still have to come together to set priorities. And, yes, make compromises and shared sacrifices to produce fair, balanced budgets each year. And never has the need been ever so clear. Our national debt recently surpassed the GDP for the first time since World War II. Each Americans share of the debt is now greater than their average salary. Congress could have acted sooner, but we haven’t and can no longer afford to wait. The bipartisan passage of this balanced budget amendment is an important and necessary step toward a sound fiscal future. As a cosponsor, we should pass this measure. But we should also reach a larger agreement with the super committee that is fair and balanced on entitlement reform and revenues. If we do so, we will begin to restore the confidence of the American public that we can work together to get our economy back on track and create the jobs that all Americans want.
11.16.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa joined a bipartisan group of Representatives and Senators today in renewing their call for the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction - commonly referred to as the Super Committee- to exceed the minimum $1.2 trillion in deficit reduction required under the Budget Control Act of 2011. The Super Committee has one more week to finalize a plan for deficit reduction. “As the clock ticks away for the Committee of 12 to come up with a plan to get our fiscal house in order, Americans are watching to see if Congress can rise to the occasion,” said Costa. “Failure is not an option. I stand with a bipartisan group of Representatives and Senators in declaring that now is the moment that we must come together to ‘go big’ and do what is necessary.” For months, Costa has been pushing his colleagues in Congress to make a long-term down payment in addressing the nation’s $1.5 trillion annual budget deficit and $15 trillion national debt. Earlier this month, Costa was one of 102 members of the House who wrote a letter to members of the Joint Select Committee urging them to keep all options for deficit reduction on the table, including spending cuts and revenues; 45 Senators have also sent a similar letter urging them to take significant steps to reduce our national deficit. Today’s press conference brought members from both sides of the Capitol together to show support for finding a compromise that will put the nation back on the road to fiscal health. The bipartisan group has called for deficit reductions of $4 trillion over the next ten years similar to the Simpson-Bowles recommendations released in December 2010. “This has been my position since the report came out in January,” said Costa. “Only with real entitlement reform and revenues to make this fair and balanced will we get our economy back on track.” The Super Committee is required by law to report a framework for deficit reductions by Nov. 23. The House and Senate must then approve the plan by a straight up or down vote by Dec. 23. Failure to approve deficit reduction legislation before this deadline will trigger automatic, across-the-board cuts to defense and discretionary spending. A copy of the letter sent by the bipartisan group of Representatives to the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction can be found here. ###
11.01.2011	Joins 60 Democrats, 40 Republicans Urging $4 Trillion in Deficit Reduction Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa joined a bipartisan group of 100 representatives in sending a letter to the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction - commonly referred to as the Super Committee – urging its members to go beyond the $1.2 trillion in deficit reduction it is required to propose and instead accomplish the $4 trillion in long-term deficit reduction required to return fiscal sanity to Washington. The Budget Control Act of 2011, which established the Super Committee, requires the committee propose at least $1.2 trillion in cuts by Nov. 23 for a vote in the House and Senate. “Valley families and businesses understand they have to live within their means, and they expect the same out of Washington,” said Costa. “For too long Washington has been led down a road of fiscal irresponsibility by partisanship and ideology. It’s time to address our fiscal problems once and for all. We must find a long-term solution to tackle our debt and restore faith in our economy.” The 100 lawmakers who signed the letter – 60 Democrats and 40 Republicans – called for all options to remain on the table for deficit reduction, including reductions in mandatory and discretionary spending and revenues. The letter expressed a commitment to a balanced approach similar to the one outlined in the final report released by the President’s Bipartisan Deficit Commission in December 2010. “Many think Congress is not up to this task, but I am encouraged that so many members are willing to reach across the aisle to urge bold action,” Costa added. “Now is a moment of truth, which requires us to work together and ‘go big.’ I stand with my Republican and Democratic colleagues in support of a balanced, bipartisan approach to restoring our fiscal well-being.” The Super Committee is required by law to report a framework for deficit reductions by Nov. 23. The House and Senate must then approve the plan by a straight up or down vote by Dec. 23. Failure to approve deficit reduction legislation before this deadline will trigger automatic, across-the-board cuts to defense and discretionary spending. A copy of the letter sent to the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction can be found here.
10.23.2011	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) released the following statement in response to the Federal Housing and Finance Agency’s (FHFA) announcement of changes to the Home Affordable Refinance Program (HARP) intended to ease refinancing for underwater homeowners. “Here in the Central Valley, we’ve been waiting far too long for the Administration and Congress to act,” said Costa. “Homeowners have seen their home values plummet, the bills pile up, and their communities ravaged by foreclosures while Washington has failed to respond. Unfortunately, the changes announced today are too little, too late to help many who have lost their homes. Tweaks alone will not solve the housing crisis.” HARP is the only federal program that allows borrowers who are underwater to refinance into lower interest loans. The Administration estimates that these changes will double the number of families enrolled in the program. The program modifications will allow homeowner’s who have a mortgage backed by Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae to refinance with current loan-to-value (LTV) ratios above 80 percent. The announced changes will also remove many of the barriers to refinancing including waiving representations and warrants and property appraisals in some instances. “We need wholesale change to our disjointed housing policy. The Administration took a step that will provide some families with relief. Congress and the Administration must work together to connect the dots if we want to stem the tide of foreclosures. Sending the HOME Act to the President’s desk would be a good start.” Costa is an original co-sponsor of Rep. Dennis Cardoza’s H.R. 363, the Housing Opportunity and Mortgage Equity (HOME) Act of 2011, which will allow any borrowers with a Fannie- or Freddie-Backed mortgage to refinance their mortgages at historically low rates. The legislation would allow homeowners to lower their monthly payments and help Americans stay in their homes. This common-sense legislation would be little-to-no cost to taxpayers since fees for refinancing will be added to the mortgage.
10.19.2011	Fresno, Calif. –Congressman Jim Costa released the following statement today on the announcement that Rep. Dennis Cardoza will retire at the end of the 112th Congress: “Dennis has been a great champion for the people of the San Joaquin Valley,” said Costa. “It has been a privilege to serve with him and call him one of my closest friends. His candor, fair-mindedness, and dedication to finding real solutions to our nation’s problems will be sorely missed. Together we fought on behalf of our constituents to get Washington to understand our Valley’s needs. I look forward to working with Dennis over the next fourteen months and in the future on the issues that impact our area such as the housing crisis, water, agriculture, and bringing a medical school to the San Joaquin Valley. I wish Dennis and his family the best in the future.” Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;} Fresno, Calif. –Congressman Jim Costa released the following statement today on the announcement that Rep. Dennis Cardoza will retire at the end of the 112th Congress: “Dennis has been a great champion for the people of the San Joaquin Valley,” said Costa. “It has been a privilege to serve with him and call him one of my closest friends. His candor, fair-mindedness, and dedication to finding real solutions to our nation’s problems will be sorely missed. Together we fought on behalf of our constituents to get Washington to understand our Valley’s needs. I look forward to working with Dennis over the next fourteen months and in the future on the issues that impact our area such as the housing crisis, water, agriculture, and a bringing a medical school to the San Joaquin Valley. I wish Dennis and his family the best in the future.”
10.13.2011	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Jim Costa reintroduced bipartisan legislation to honor the service of Hmong veterans in the Valley and nationwide. The legislation would extend burial benefits in National Cemeteries to Hmong veterans who fought with and supported U.S. forces during the Vietnam War era. “Hmong veterans served side-by-side with American forces in Vietnam, and these veterans deserve the honor of a final resting place next to their brothers in arms,” Costa said. “These veterans defended our American ideals long before any of them called our country home. Extending burial benefits to our Hmong veterans recognizes their sacrifice and honors their patriotic service.” Hmong men from Laos were trained and led by officers from the CIA’s Special Activities Division during the Vietnam War. Tens of thousands of these men performed direct missions against Communist forces and North Vietnamese supporters. Following the war, thousands of Hmong Veterans resettled across the United States and in the Valley. In 1975, President Ford signed legislation that granted them legal permanent resident status. Costa introduced the legislation in honor of General Vang Pao, the famed Laotian general who commanded a secret army of Hmong soldiers during the Vietnam War and the undisputed leader of the Hmong community in America. After passing away in January, the U.S. Army denied Costa’s request that a waiver to be granted to allow General Vang Pao to be buried in a National Cemetery. “After fighting to save the lives of U.S. troops, General Vang Pao became an American citizen in the adopted country he loved. Without a doubt he deserved to be buried alongside the same men with whom he fought shoulder to shoulder. Hmong veterans across the country deserve the honor General Vang Pao was denied,” Costa continued. Currently, burial benefits are available to veterans and members of the U.S. Armed Services, their spouses and dependants, Reserve Officers, Public Health Service Officers, Merchant Mariners from World War II, and the Philippine Armed Forces. This legislation would add Hmong veterans to the list of individuals eligible for interment in National Cemeteries after they undergo a verification and documentation process by the Department of Veterans Affairs to certify their service. The Hmong veterans must be American citizens or legal permanent residents to be eligible. There are approximately 6,900 Hmong veterans who would currently be eligible for burial benefits. If benefits were extended today, estimates show that less than 3,000 of the eligible Hmong veterans would take advantage of the burial benefits. Costa was joined by 7 other Members of Congress in introducing this bipartisan bill. He introduced similar legislation during the last Congress.
10.12.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Calif.) voted Wednesday evening in support of trade agreements with Korea, Panama, and Colombia that will help the United States better compete globally. The House also approved legislation with Costa’s support to extend the Trade Adjustment Assistance Act (TAA), which provides benefits to workers impacted by the possible adverse effects of trade expansion. “Our current trade situation is neither free nor fair,” said Costa. “Improving access to these emerging markets means new markets for agricultural products grown in our Valley and jobs for the Californians who grow, harvest and process them. Our long-term economic recovery depends in part on ensuring products grown and made in America can freely reach foreign markets.” Agriculture stands to gain more than almost any other industry under the new trade agreements. The trade pact with South Korea reduces the barriers on the export of American goods to the world’s 13th largest economy. The South Korean Free Trade Agreement alone is estimated to boost U.S. agricultural exports by at least $1.9 billion by eliminating tariffs ranging from 8 to 144 percent and other barriers to trade on most agricultural products. This agreement expands opportunities for the export of specialty crops that are grown right in the San Joaquin Valley. Specifically, the South Korean pact clears the way for the immediate elimination of tariffs on American-grown raisins, asparagus, almonds, pistachios, wine and certain types of tomatoes. It also begins the phased in reduction of tariffs on grapes, various dairy products, beef and citrus. Approval of the Panama trade deal expands access for American goods to the fastest growing economy in Latin America. This agreement leads to the immediate elimination of half the tariffs on U.S. agricultural exports, including high-quality beef, almost all fruit and fruit products, cotton and many processed products. Tariffs on poultry, rice, and dairy products currently face tariffs ranging from 7 to 260 percent but these levels will be drastically reduced under the new agreement. The agreement with Colombia will eliminate most barriers to trade for U.S. products entering Central and South America’s third largest economy and strengthen our ties with a key ally in the region. The administrations of Presidents Bush and Obama worked to make the agreements the best possible deal for American workers. South Korea, Panama and Colombia have committed to protect workers’ rights and help create a level playing field for American workers. The countries have also affirmed that all workers have the right to join a union, to collectively bargain, to eliminate all forms of forced labor, to effectively combat child labor and to eliminate employment discrimination. The U.S. Senate is expected to approve the agreements later Wednesday evening and has already passed the Trade Adjustment Assistance Act extension. The three agreements and the TAA extension await signature from President Obama.
10.04.2011	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Calif.) announced that the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) approved $92 million for the construction of the Fresno Veterans Home. Final approval of the funding was delayed due to state budget cuts that prevented the California Department of Veterans Affairs (CDVA) from honoring several provisions in the initial grant agreement signed by the state in March. In July, Congressman Costa called on VA Secretary Erik Shinseki to renegotiate the grant agreement and to ensure California received the funding for the home. The funding was approved thanks to the successful renegotiation of the grant agreement. “The new Fresno Veterans Home is a promise we made to the veterans of Fresno and the surrounding communities, and today’s announcement helps ensure we keep that promise,” Costa said. “Secretary Shinseki and CDVA Undersecretary for Veterans Homes Robin Umberg deserve praise for renegotiating the grant agreement and approving this critical funding. This funding moves us one step closer to finally opening this home that is very much needed forour men and women who bravely wore the uniform of the United States.” Plans for the Fresno Veterans Home include a 120-bed nursing home and a 180-bed domiciliary. The home is being constructed on time and under budget with an April 2012 expected completion date. The funding, awarded through the VA’s Home Grant Program, will reimburse California for 65% of the total cost of the home’s construction, estimated to be $141 million. Construction of the home has created nearly 1000 jobs in the Fresno area. Click here to find a copy of Costa’s letter to Shinseki.
10.04.2011	Washington, D.C. – Reps. Jim Costa (D-Calif.) and Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) introduced legislation today to give relief to livestock producers, dairymen and consumers. The bipartisan legislation will link the amount of corn ethanol required to fulfill the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) to the actual U.S. corn supply. “The Renewable Fuel Standard has been incredibly successful in replacing a portion of the oil we import with home-grown energy, and I continue to support RFS. But our continued reliance on corn-based ethanol has impacts,” said Rep. Jim Costa. “While ethanol is not the only factor I am convinced it is a factor in the high prices farmers pay for feed and consumers pay for food.” Since the implementation of the RFS, the percentage of the U.S. corn supply used for ethanol production has continued to climb. An estimated 40 percent of this year’s expected corn crop will be sent to the production of ethanol. In 2004/2005, the last crop year prior to implementation of the RFS, only 12.5 percent went to corn ethanol. This will be the first year that the corn supply used for ethanol production will be larger than that used for feed. If left unchecked, this trend could continue to have devastating effects on the bottom line of farmers, ranchers, and consumers. The Renewable Fuel Flexibility Act, will link the amount of corn-based ethanol mandated under the RFS to U.S. corn supplies. The mandated level will be determined based upon biannual reports from the U.S. Department of Agriculture on the corn stocks-to-use ratios. When the corn supply is tight, the legislation outlines a mechanism that will reduce the level of the corn-based ethanol required in the RFS. This common-sense legislation deals only with the corn portion of the RFS while continuing to encourage ethanol producers to transition to new generation biofuels made from cellulosic materials that don’t double as a food source. The Renewable Fuel Flexibility Act ensures that American agriculture can continue to offer reasonably priced food products to consumers while also encouraging the development of existing and new alternative fuel sources. “As a longtime supporter of alternative energy, I believe ethanol – particularly cellulosic ethanol – has to be a key part of a balanced energy policy,” Costa said. “This legislation will provide a relief valve for the corn-ethanol portion of the RFS to help ensure corn-based ethanol is not leading to corn shortages or even higher prices for farmers and consumers.” A diverse group of agricultural, hunger and industry organizations have endorsed the Renewable Fuel Standard Act including Action Aid, the American Meat Institute, the Grocery Manufacturer Association, the National Cattlemen’s Beef Association, the National Chicken Council, the National Pork Producers Council, the National Turkey Federation and Oxfam America. The legislation is supported by California groups including the California Poultry Federation, the California Cattlemen’s Association, California Dairies Inc. and California Milk Producers Council. A summary of the Renewable Fuel Flexibility Act can be found here.
10.03.2011	Fresno, Calif. - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Calif.) announced that the Fresno Unified School District has received nearly $400,000 in federal funding from the U.S. Department of Education to expand counseling programs at four high-need elementary schools. The grant will enable the school district to expand and enhance the Safe and Civil Schools program, a school-wide and classroom-based program, to improve the safety and social behavior of students. “Investing in education is our nation’s best ‘jobs’ program. This funding will significantly boost the ability of the Fresno Unified School District to provide our students a well-rounded education that will enable them to compete in the global economy. This grant is a win for our children and an investment in their future,” Costa said. Superintendent Michael Hanson added, “This critical grant will help support the ongoing programs that ensure our students are learning in a safe and secure environment. We appreciate the Department of Education for providing this grant and Congressman Costa for his many years of support for the school district and the students we serve.” The funding was provided to the Fresno Unified School District through the Department of Education’s Elementary and Secondary School Counseling Program.
10.02.2011	Fresno, Calif. - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Calif.) announced that the Kern County Superintendent of Schools (KCSOS) has received more than $500,000 in federal funding from the U.S. Department of Education to implement the “Kern Kids Get Moving!” project. The project is designed to help Kern County students meet state standards for physical education and will serve to promote and encourage lifelong eating habits. The project will target youth at the KCSOS Valley Oaks Charter School, Alternative Education Programs and five after school Migrant Education programs. “Investing in education is our nation’s best “jobs” program. This funding will enable students in Kern County to receive a well-rounded education that includes health, wellness and physical education. This grant is a win for our children and an investment in their future,” Costa said. Kern County Superintendent of Schools Christine Lizardi Frazier added, “Because of this funding, kids in Kern County will develop critical skills to help them lead happier, healthier lives. I am grateful for Congressman Costa’s support and for the Department of Education’s decision to award this funding.” The funding was provided to the Kern County Superintendent of Schools through the Department of Education’s Carol M. White Physical Education Program.
10.02.2011	New police officer to join the force Fresno, Calif. - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Calif.) announced that the Parlier Police Department will hire a new police officer for three years thanks to a $244,057 grant from the U.S. Department of Justice’s Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS). Parlier was one of only 23 law enforcement agencies in California to receive the COPS Hiring Program grant. “This COPS grant is great news for Parlier. With another police officer out of the unemployment line and on the beat, the streets of Parlier will be safer and more secure,” Costa said. “COPS funding is a lifeline for law enforcement agencies like the Parlier PD, and I will continue to fight against attempts to eliminate this critical program.” Chief of Police Ishmael Solis added, “We are excited to add a new police officer to the force to help us continue to keep Parlier and the surrounding communities safe. Very few law enforcement agencies across the state were lucky enough to receive this funding. We are grateful to Congressman Costa for his steadfast support and thankful that COPS has chosen to recognize the Parlier Police Department in this way.” Costa fought efforts to eliminate funding for the COPS program in a May letter to the House Appropriations Committee. “In this tough economic time, when there have been increases in violent crime, drug sales, and threats to homeland security and the safety of the public, it is essential that law enforcement has the resources necessary to effectively and efficiently protect the public,” Costa wrote. COPS awarded $243 million in grants to 238 law enforcement agencies to hire, preserve, and/or rehire 1,021 career law enforcement officer positions across the country. For more information, visit www.cops.usdoj.gov.
09.22.2011	“Legislation is powerful tool to hold EPA accountable” Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) today joined a bipartisan majority in the U.S. House of Representatives in passing legislation to mandate a comprehensive economic analysis of current and proposed Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations. The bill, H.R. 2401, the Transparency in Regulatory Analysis of Impacts on the Nation (TRAIN) Act of 2011, would establish an interagency committee that would study the sum impacts of proposed and current EPA rules to better understand how these regulations are impacting America’s global economic competitiveness, electricity and fuel prices, and employment. The comprehensive analysis would be the first of its kind. Congressman Costa, an original co-sponsor of the legislation, spoke on the House floor yesterday highlighting the impact of EPA regulations on the San Joaquin Valley. Click here to see a video of the Congressman’s speech. “For too long, farmers, farmworkers, and small businesses in the San Joaquin Valley have shouldered the burden of mounting EPA regulations. At some point, it’s time to put the brakes on all these regulations and look at the effects on consumers, on energy and manufacturing industries, on electricity and fuel prices, and on our country’s global competitiveness. This legislation is a powerful tool to hold the EPA accountable and adds a dose of Valley commonsense to the regulatory process,” Costa said. The analysis of the interagency committee must include the impacts of the covered rules and actions with regard to U.S. competitiveness, including energy intensive and trade sensitive industries; other cumulative cost and cumulative benefit impacts; changes in electricity and fuel prices; impact on national, State, and regional employment both in short and long-term; and the reliability and adequacy of bulk power supply. H.R. 2401 passed the House today by a vote of 249 to 169. The bill now awaits consideration in the Senate.
09.21.2011	Costa, Cardoza Applaud Court’s Decision Washington, D.C. – Congressmen Jim Costa (D-Fresno) and Dennis Cardoza (D-Merced) today reacted to the news that the United States District Court rejected a 2009 salmon biological opinion issued by the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) and ordered the agency to develop a new opinion. In his ruling, Judge Oliver Wanger criticized the biological opinion as “arbitrary, capricious, and unlawful” while also citing the “equivocal or bad science” used to justify the agency’s action. Congressmen Costa and Cardoza have written letters and repeatedly called upon NMFS to use sound science and to analyze the wide range of factors, including pollution and invasive predator species, that are contributing to the decline of salmon in the Delta. Congressmen Costa and Cardoza, along with Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), urged Commerce Secretary Gary Locke in March to revisit the 2009 biological opinion given the weak science used to justify the water reductions in the spring. The decision issued by Judge Wanger settles a three-year battle over water rights in the Central Valley and its impact on salmon fisheries throughout California. Congressmen Costa and Cardoza issued the following statement: Yet again the courts have rejected the discredited science used to justify the implementation of a flawed biological opinion. We have consistently called on NMFS to implement the Endangered Species Act appropriately and with correct science. Thus far, the agency has done neither. We feel our constituents have been vindicated now that the courts have finally settled this long-running legal dispute in their favor. We are hopeful that yesterday’s ruling will compel NMFS to develop a biological opinion based on sound science that provides reasonable protection for salmon and meets the needs of our constituents in the San Joaquin Valley. The economy of this state is tied to reliable water deliveries. The federal government’s use of sloppy science to justify massive water cuts without any consideration of alternatives that would protect water deliveries to farmers is unconscionable. The 26 million people south of the Delta, which includes our farm communities, deserve better. Congressmen Costa and Cardoza have argued that the Delta is affected by multiple environmental stressors including urban runoff, wastewater discharges, and nonnative predatory fish, such as the striped bass. Last year, they called on state and federal agencies to stop programs that protect the striped bass until they take into consideration their impact on native delta smelt and salmon. Click here to read the letter.
09.14.2011	Calls on department to “stop the insanity” Washington, D.C. - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) today rebuked the U.S. Department of the Interior in a letter to Secretary Ken Salazar for seeking a stay on Judge Oliver Wanger’s Aug. 31 ruling on Interior’s Delta smelt plan (fall X2). Judge Wanger found “there is essentially no biological evidence to support” the department’s plan and halted its full implementation. “The simple fact is that time and time again federal courts have rejected the discredited science used to justify a plan to flush hundreds of thousands of acre feet of water out of the Delta that could otherwise be made available to the rest of the state. Rather than engaging in another futile attempt to implement a flawed plan, Interior should focus its efforts on working work with us on a long-term solution to our water challenges like the Bay Delta Conservation Plan,” Costa said. In his letter to Secretary Salazar, Costa highlighted the legal battles and misguided federal regulations that have cost the San Joaquin Valley more water than any other region of California. “[F]or nearly twenty years, the Valley has seen water diverted as a result of [the Central Valley Project Improvement Act], court decisions, and regulatory actions that use flawed science and cost us decreased and unstable water supplies, while no other region of the state has been similarly impacted… But notwithstanding all of the criticisms, Interior insists on charging forward in the courts, relying on discredited science,” Costa wrote. Costa also offered to meet Secretary Salazar during his visit to San Francisco next week. “I’ll gladly make the three-hour drive to San Francisco to meet the Secretary so we can discuss real world alternatives that better serve water users across California,” Costa said. Judge Wanger is expected to rule on Interior’s motion to stay Friday.
09.08.2011	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) released a statement following President Barack Obama’s address to a Joint Session of Congress. The President laid out the principles of the American Jobs Act, legislation he will transmit to Congress in the coming days. “I appreciated hearing the President’s plan for job creation. We don’t lack ideas. We lack jobs. That’s why the President, the Congress, and the private sector must work together to put Americans back to work. “We can pass a long-term, robust highway bill and invest in our water infrastructure to create hundreds of thousands of jobs. We can ease regulations that stifle economic growth. We can improve our depressed housing market by passing legislation like the HOME Act. And we can dramatically expand the market for American products by immediately passing three pending free trade agreements. We can do all these things, and we can do them today. “With unemployment in our Valley well into the double digits, it’s past time to act.”
09.02.2011	Grant will assist homeless and at-risk veterans in the San Joaquin Valley Fresno, Calif. - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Calif.) announced that $1 million has been released to WestCare California to assist homeless and at-risk Veteran families in Fresno, Tulare, Kings, Madera and Merced Counties. The homelessness prevention grant was awarded through the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) Supportive Services for Veteran Families Program. Congressman Costa toured the WestCare facility last year and sent a letter to the VA in support of the grant. “Just one veteran falling asleep at night without a permanent roof over his or her head is one veteran too many,” Costa said. “This VA grant is another strong step toward the goal of ending homelessness among veterans and their families in Fresno and across the nation once and for all. I commend the VA and WestCare California for their strong support of our nation’s most vulnerable veterans.” WestCare California was one of 85 non-profit community agencies in 40 states to receive the federal funding. With the help of the grant, WestCare California will provide a range of supportive services designed to promote housing stability among low-income Veteran families including health care, personal finance, housing counseling, legal and child care services. Regional Vice President Maurice Lee of WestCare California added, “Veterans and their families deserve our utmost respect and support for the years of service they have given to our country. We are excited to continue serving Valley veterans, thankful to the VA for this funding, and grateful to Congressman Costa for his steadfast support of our mission.” For more information about the Services for Veteran Families Program, click here: https://www.va.gov/homeless/ssvf.asp.
09.02.2011	Costa: Commonsense and good science have won the day Fresno, Calif. - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) released a statement following the announcement that President Barack Obama directed the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to withdraw proposed new regulations on air quality standards for ozone. The draft regulations would have rewritten the current ozone standards put in place by the Bush Administration in 2008 and are due to be updated in 2013, pursuant to the Clean Air Act. “Today’s announcement makes clear that President Obama and EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson have finally heard the concerns of rural communities across the country and particularly in the San Joaquin Valley. Administrator Jackson saw first-hand that our farming communities are working hard to abide by current ozone standards and that a rewrite of these regulations would only hamstring our economy and way of life when she visited with Valley farmers and growers in March. Administrator Jackson has also seen our success in improving our air quality through a series of initiatives, including the retrofit of old farm equipment, school buses, and trucks with funding that I fought and will continue to fight to bring to our Valley,” Costa said. “Reducing unnecessary regulatory burdens are central to growing our struggling economy. I applaud the President and the Administrator for allowing commonsense and good science to win the day.”
08.29.2011	Fresno, Calif. - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Calif.) announced that Clinica Sierra Vista of Bakersfield has received a $483,333 federal grant from the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) to open a new community health center in Fresno County known as the West Shaw Community Health Center. Clinica Sierra Vista was one of only 67 organizations across the nation to receive the HRSA grant. Costa supported Clinica Sierra Vista’s application for federal funding in a letter to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. “The new West Shaw Community Health Center will expand access to quality health care for communities in Fresno that need it most,” Costa said. “This grant is a significant investment in the health and well-being of people of the San Joaquin Valley. I am proud to have helped secure the funding for the new community health center.” At full capacity, West Shaw Community Health Center will serve 3,883 patients, employ 15 medical professionals, and offer primary care services in family practice, internal medicine, pediatrics, OB/GYN and other preventative and supplemental health services. Stephen W. Schilling, Chief Executive Officer for Clinica Sierra Vista, added, “Clinica Sierra Vista has provided quality health care to medically underserved populations in the San Joaquin Valley for more than 40 years. We are thrilled to receive this highly competitive grant. We look forward to opening this new center and serving a community that is in great need of quality, accessible health care. I am grateful to Congressman Costa for his many years of steadfast support for Clinica Sierra Vista and our mission.” Clinica Sierra Vista is one of the largest, private, non-profit, community based and governed agencies in California. A leader in providing primary health care and preventive health education services, Clinica Sierra Vista has grown to 24 sites, with more than 900 employees.
08.05.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) released the following statement upon hearing that a leading credit rating agency decided to downgrade the credit rating of the United States. "Tonight, Standard & Poor's, a leading credit rating agency, decided to downgrade the United States' credit rating from AAA. Our country's credit rating was not downgraded due to an inability to pay our debts. Our credit rating was downgraded because the global economic market no longer trusts our political system to make prudent, wise decisions. We can longer tolerate a radical minority holding our economy hostage only to prove a partisan point. It's time to put aside the politics and work to create the conditions necessary for job creation and economic growth," said Costa.
08.01.2011	Funding will Help Producers with Air and Water Quality and Water Conservation Practices Washington, D.C. - Congressmen Jim Costa (D-CA) and Dennis Cardoza (D-CA) today announced $9.5 million in additional funding assistance for California farmers seeking to make farm improvements that will help to improve air quality, water quality or conserve water. These funds will be provided through USDA’s Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS). “This announcement is an important victory for our farmers and the Valley economy,” Costa said. “Valley farmers have been among the most proactive in the nation at working to improve air and water quality. I am pleased that USDA recognizes the importance of supporting Valley agriculture as we work to continue these efforts.” “California farmers are faced with the most stringent environmental standards in the nation. These additional funds will help alleviate some of the burden on farmers and will help to improve the environment in the Valley. This is a win for farmers and a win for the environment,” said Cardoza. The additional funding for the San Joaquin Valley includes $5 million for air quality practices and $4.5 million toward water quality on dairy farms and water conservation. The funding is offered through the 2008 Farm Bill’s Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP). “We are happy to provide this additional investment to help farmers and ranchers conserve and improve California’s air and water quality, and water conservation,” said Ed Burton NRCS State Conservationist. “While this funding will go primarily toward pending unfunded applications, our local offices will continue to take new applications year-round, and offer landowners ongoing conservation planning and technical assistance. The funding adds to the approximately $60 million NRCS has already obligated this year in EQIP conservation contracts.” Details of the funding include: $5 million for EQIP air quality practices to help reduce ozone precursors in the high-priority non-attainment areas of the San Joaquin Valley; primarily for replacing old diesel engines with engines that run 75 percent cleaner. $4.5 million in EQIP for water quality and conservation practices in the San Joaquin Valley for increasing irrigation system efficiency and managing dairy waste. Interested producers are encouraged to contact their local NRCS Service Center. Contact information is available at https://offices.sc.egov.usda.gov/locator/app?state=CA.
08.01.2011	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Jim Costa (D-CA) released the following statement regarding his vote in favor of the bipartisan debt limit compromise. The compromise extends the debt limit of the United States through the beginning of 2013, reduces the national deficit by $1.2 trillion over ten years, establishes a 12 member bipartisan congressional committee to develop a long-term deficit reduction plan, and allows for a vote on a balanced budget amendment. “Tonight, I voted for a long-overdue, bipartisan compromise that allows our country to pay its bills and puts America back on the path to fiscal responsibility. Though not perfect, it is a strong statement that America is a country that honors its financial obligations. “I am hopeful that the agreement reached today represents the beginning of the end of our nation’s fiscal irresponsibility. The bipartisan congressional committee should begin its work by looking at the recommendations of the Simpson-Bowles Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform. These reforms, coupled with a clean balanced budget amendment along the lines of H.J.Res. 2, will ensure our economy recovers and remains strong for future generations. Tonight’s vote was a start. Let’s put aside the politics for good and get to work.”
07.31.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-CA) released the following statement regarding the U.S. courthouse currently under construction in Bakersfield, California: “At the request of nine federal judges including Bakersfield’s only federal judge, I submitted a bill to name the courthouse after a well respected judge who served Bakersfield and the San Joaquin Valley for more than 40 years. The Californian has raised a good point regarding former Governor and Chief Justice of the United States Earl Warren, a man who made important contributions to our nation and certainly to the community of Bakersfield. He and his legacy deserve to be memorialized, and I would be honored to assist in any local effort to do so. “As a result of the input I received from Kern County citizens and a conversation with Congressman Kevin McCarthy, I decided it is best to remove the legislation from consideration in the House. This would allow the community to have a transparent process to name this federal courthouse, for which I fought hard to provide the funding to see it built. The process should involve the residents of Kern County and community leaders. The Bakersfield City Council, the Kern County Board of Supervisors, and our local press should also be in involved in this process.”
07.31.2011	Costa: “It’s time for cooler heads to prevail.” Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) released the following statement regarding today’s vote on S. 627, legislation sponsored by Speaker of the House John Boehner to provide a short-term increase in the nation’s debt limit. The bill passed the House by a vote of 218-210, and awaits consideration by the Senate where passage is considered unlikely. “Leading credit rating agency Standard & Poor’s has said the Speaker’s two-step approach to the debt limit could still result in a downgrade of our nation’s credit rating because of the uncertainty it would create. I simply could not bring myself to vote for legislation that would yet again call into question the full faith and credit of the United States,” Costa said. Costa also took to the House floor today to urge compromise and an end to the debt limit crisis. His remarks as prepared for delivery are laid out below: Mr. Chairman, this rule will further drive a wedge between the two parties rather than bring us closer to an agreement. It has been a week since bipartisan discussions over the $4 trillion “grand deal” broke down yet we have seen little progress toward a solution. Missing in today's debate is a bipartisan approach toward our nation's fiscal health. We can cut through the partisan rhetoric with a balanced package that: Implements the Simpson-Bowles recommendations to reduce spending by $4 trillion over 10 years lower tax rates, ensure the solvency of Medicare and Social Security and stabilize the debt. The House should also consider a clean balanced budget amendment, like H.J.Res. 2, which says our country can’t spend more than we take in. This amendment and the Simpson-Bowles recommendations should be coupled with a debt limit increase to get us through the next 18 months. It’s time for cooler heads to prevail, and with the clock ticking down to our nation’s first ever default we cannot afford to wait a minute longer. Default is not an option.
06.30.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) applauded the announcement from the U.S. Department of Labor that the Kern County Employers’ Training Resource (ETR) will receive a $2,107,959 grant from the National Farmworker Jobs Program (NFJP). The grant will enable the ETR to continue providing a full array of services for migrant and seasonal farmworkers including vocational education, on-the-job training, work experience, case management, and job search assistance in both English and Spanish. “Our recovering economy depends on a strong and vibrant workforce,” Costa said. “This critical grant will allow the Kern County Employers’ Training Resource to help farmworkers develop the skills they need to keep our economy thriving.” Verna Lewis, Executive Director of the Kern County ETR added, “This funding will help us continue to build a well-trained workforce and a strong economy in Kern County. I am grateful to have the support of the Department of Labor and Congressman Costa.” The NFJP was authorized by the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 in order to counter the impact of the chronic unemployment and underemployment experienced by migrant and seasonal farmworkers who depend primarily on jobs in agricultural labor.
06.22.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) released the following statement regarding President Obama’s televised address on the status of the war in Afghanistan. “Our brave men and women in uniform have made good progress in our effort to disrupt, dismantle, and defeat al Qaeda in Afghanistan and the Middle East. After nearly ten years of war and the death of Osama bin Laden, I applaud President Obama’s decision to begin a responsible withdrawal of our troops from Afghanistan. I look forward to the day when all our servicemembers serving in harm’s way are reunited with their families.” ###
06.22.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) continued his fight against wasteful taxpayer subsidies for corn ethanol by joining his colleagues in introducing the Ethanol Subsidy Repeal Act, bipartisan legislation that would fully eliminate the Volumetric Ethanol Excise Tax Credit (VEETC) and repeal the import tariff on foreign ethanol. The bill would save taxpayers $2.7 billion this year and $6 billion in each subsequent years. “Each year, Americans foot the bill for our nation’s misguided corn ethanol subsidies to the tune of $6 billion,” Costa said. “These wasteful subsidies divert corn into our gas tanks and away from the feedstock our ranchers and dairymen depend on. As a result, food costs have skyrocketed, while livestock and dairy producers are confronting possible feed shortages. Ethanol is one tool in our energy toolbox, but the current policy is unsustainable.” The federal government currently subsidizes the production of corn ethanol through the VEETC, a $0.45 per gallon ethanol tax credit; a $0.54 per gallon tariff on imported corn-based ethanol; and the enforcement of the federal Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS), which mandates the use of ethanol. In May, Costa called for a “full and fair debate” and “commonsense reforms” to American ethanol policy in a letter sent to President Obama, Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, Speaker of the House John Boehner (R-Ohio), and Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) “This bipartisan legislation will end unnecessary government support for an industry that might have needed incentives to get off the ground but clearly no longer needs such support. We ought to have a debate in the light of day about our nation’s misguided corn ethanol policy,” Costa added. “I hope the House leadership will listen to the message sent last week by our friends in the Senate: End these price distorting subsidies.” The legislation closely resembles an amendment offered by Senators Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) and Tom Coburn (R-Okla.) that overwhelmingly passed the Senate last week by a vote of 73-27. # # #
06.14.2011	Site selected one of America’s 11 Most Endangered Historic Places Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) congratulated Hanford’s China Alley for being named one of America’s 11 Most Endangered Historic Places by the National Trust for Historic Preservation (NTHP). Costa supported this designation for China Alley in a letter to the NTHP in January. “China Alley is an essential part of the fabric of Hanford,” Costa said. “The continued restoration of the historic China Alley is a tribute to California’s early Chinese settlers and pays homage to Hanford and California’s rich immigrant history. I was pleased to support China Alley’s nomination earlier this year and extend my congratulations to the Taoist Temple Preservation Society for this remarkable achievement.” Steve Banister of the China Alley Historic District added, “National treasures in rural parts of the country like ours are too often overlooked and forgotten. I am grateful to the National Trust for Historic Preservation for recognizing the value of preserving China Alley, and I thank Congressman Costa for supporting our application every step of the way.”
06.14.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced a grant of $1,939,598 for the Kings Community Action Organization in Hanford, CA, for the Head Start and Early Head Start Program. “Head Start is essential for the early education of our children,” Costa said. “These funds will provide families with health and support services while ensuring another generation of children in Kings County is prepared for kindergarten this fall.” Head Start provides comprehensive early childhood education and development services to low-income preschool children on a part- or full-day basis. Under current law, Head Start funds are provided directly by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to local grantees, which must comply with detailed federal performance standards.
06.07.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced $12.9 million in Farm Bill funding for Fiscal Year 2011 to help Valley farmers and growers prevent the introduction and spread of plant pests and diseases. Included in the funding is $1.1 million to prevent the spread of the European grapevine moth in California. “Valley farmers and farmworkers depend on a strong summer harvest,” Costa said. “This critical funding will give our farmers and growers a suite of tools to combat the spread of the pests and diseases that threaten Valley agriculture every day. I fought to include pest and disease prevention funding in the last Farm Bill, and I am pleased to see this money return to California. ” Barry Bedwell, President of the California Grape and Tree Fruit League added, “This essential funding will help California growers fight the spread of plant diseases and pests like the European grapevine moth. Working with our supporters in Congress and the Department of Agriculture, we will be able to continue protecting our crops from this pest and ensure a strong summer harvest.” The funding, made available through the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS), will go toward the following programs in California: Asian Defoliating Moths Survey - $110,804 Enhancing Exotic Pest Surveys - $5,771,824 Plum Pox Virus (PPV) Survey -$221,607 Tomato Commodity Tuta absoluta Survey - $443,214 Detector Dog Team - $3,423,831 Enhancing Plant Pest Identification Capabilities at the California Department of Food and Agriculture - $221,607 Enhancing taxonomc and molecular diagnostics capacity for fruit flies - $110,804 Trap and Lure for Walnut Twig Beetle - $177,804 Tuta absoluta Sex Phermones – Detection and Management Tools - $110,804 Development of an Integrated Pest Management Program for the Light Brown Apple Moth in Nurseries - $83,250 Assessment of disinfectants for control of Phytophthora ramorum - $128,532 National Ornamentals Research Site at Dominican University of California - $664,822 Regional Strategic System for Early Detection of Invasive Species - $188,430 European Grapevine Moth - Survey and Control Technologies - $171,746 European Grapevine Moth - $1,108,036
06.01.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) continued working to find comprehensive solutions to California’s broken water system during a Water and Power Subcommittee hearing on H.R. 1837, the San Joaquin Valley Water Reliability Act. Costa urged cooperation among all stakeholders, but emphasized that California’s Central Valley has historically borne the brunt of the sacrifices required by previous water compromises. “The fact of the matter is that the Central Valley has been a target with a bull’s-eye on it for years,” Costa said. “If we are going to find real water solutions in California, there must be shared sacrifice among all stakeholders and all regions.” Costa pledged his support for improving H.R. 1837 and moving it forward in the House of Representatives, but cautioned that the bill’s success will depend on cooperation. “Unless we are willing to work with Senator Feinstein, the Department of the Interior and the State of California, this measure – as it is proposed today – will never become law in the 112th Congress.” Costa’s prepared remarks are below: Thank you, Chairman McClintock and Ranking Member Napolitano, for holding today’s hearing on H.R. 1837 – the San Joaquin Valley Water Reliability Act. In the San Joaquin Valley, we share a common goal: restoring a sustainable and reliable water supply for the farmers, farmworkers, and farm communities that feed our state, the nation, and the world. California’s water system is broken. The system was built for 20 million people, we have 38 million people today, and our population is expected to reach 50 million in two decades. There has never has been and there never will be a silver bullet, but we must work to find the art of the possible. While H.R. 1837 is not perfect and there are issues that need to be worked out before it could become law, I am happy to participate and lend my support as the bill moves through the legislative process. The bill tackles many of the same issues I have been working to resolve over the past several years. Titles I and III aim to address one of our biggest challenges in California water policy: federal and state water laws have changed not just with new legislatures, but with different administrations. The letter of the law, the interpretation of the law, and the implementation of these laws are constantly in flux. It’s unfortunately why we have been in court for decades. Case in point: the Central Valley Project Improvement Act of 1992 (CVPIA). Mr. Birmingham’s testimony makes a fairly strong case for why the implementation of that law and its interpretation has not matched Congressional intent. We have been trying to fix this administratively since CVPIA’s inception, but there are many other examples. The measure is similar in concept to legislation I introduced earlier this year with Congressman Cardoza, H.R. 1251 – the More Water for Our Valley Act of 2011. The bill seeks to provide Congressional direction for the implementation of the Endangered Species Act and restore balance to our water availability that is lacking. Our Valley’s water supply needs certainty while we work on long-term solutions like the Bay Delta Conservation Plan. This provision embodies that kind of goal, and I support the concept. Title II of the bill before us repeals and replaces the San Joaquin River Restoration Settlement Act. The Settlement is not perfect. However, those water districts that asked Senator Feinstein and I to carry the implementing legislation in 2006 are not asking for this repeal-and-replace language. The program will likely be seriously underfunded in the coming years, and there is no viable strategy for making up a multimillion dollar shortfall in spite of our best efforts. Moreover, there are third-parties to the Settlement who have had to deal with damages as a result of restoration flows, and there is not yet a clearly established process for mitigation or compensation. This legislation does not address these matters. For these reasons and the budget realities of the next 5 years, I believe we should re-examine this program and remain open to a discussion regarding the merits of this policy, in the long-term. The Settlement had nearly three years of Congressional review, House and Senate hearings and markups, numerous Members negotiating with all affected California water agencies and the state, and much public input and intense debate. If Congress is to re-examine the San Joaquin River Settlement, we should do it in an open, thoughtful process that includes those most affected by its implementation. I will support this legislation today and believe it will pass the committee in markup and on the Floor in the next several months. However, I also predict that unless we are willing to work with Senator Feinstein and the Department of the Interior, this measure as it is proposed today will never become law in the 112th Congress. We have our work cut out for us.
05.18.2011	Fresno, CA – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced today $9.1 million in federal funding awarded to help five Central Valley water delivery districts save water and increase water delivery, storage, and management efficiencies. The U.S. Departments of Agriculture and the Interior awarded the funding through the WaterSMART (Sustain and Manage America’s Resources for Tomorrow) program, a cooperative pilot program to fund water use efficiency projects. “Our farmers, farm workers, and farm communities depend on water,” Costa said. “This funding will help bring more water to Valley farmers and growers by allowing our water districts to deliver water more efficiently. This is a win for our Valley economy.” The following water districts will receive WaterSMART funding: Buena Vista Water Storage District The Water Use and Irrigation Efficiency Project Reclamation Funding: $999,681, Total Project Cost: $2,081,648 The project will line 1 mile of earthen canal to reduce seepage losses, build new turnouts for more efficient water deliveries, install a Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition system and retrofit meters. The project is expected to conserve 4,000 acre-feet per year and will provide water supply sustainability to the district and contribute to wildlife enhancements. These system improvements will provide more precise water deliveries to growers, allowing them to implement such things as tailwater return systems, ditch lining and irrigation system evaluations and retrofits. South San Joaquin Irrigation District South San Joaquin Irrigation District, Division 9 Irrigation Enhancement Project Reclamation Funding: $1,000,000, Total Project Cost: $12,996,280 The project will build a state-of-the-art, pressurized irrigation system, replacing an open channel system to irrigate approximately 3,800 acres, and will capture agricultural run-off for irrigation re-use. The project incorporates automated water delivery controls and updated metering technology, allowing for precise measurement and accounting of water use. The project will result in energy conservation, reduced air emissions and improved water quality, and it is expected to conserve 3,498 acre-feet of water per year. Fields currently flood-irrigated can convert to sprinkler or micro-drip irrigation systems that result in significantly less on-farm water use. Semitropic Water Storage District Water Use Efficiency and Energy Improvements for Semitropic Water Storage District and Growers Reclamation Funding: $711,170, Total Project Cost: $1,474,640 The project will implement district-level improvements to increase the district’s water and energy efficiencies by adding pumping capacity at two conveyance facilities and by adding a turbine to one of the district’s pumping plants. Semitropic estimates that the turbine will produce 2.9 percent of the District’s power needs. With the addition of this turbine, 16 percent of the District’s power need will be met with renewable energy sources. The project is expected to conserve 2,560 acre-feet of water per year. Semitropic's improvements will enable growers to enhance their on-farm efficiency by reducing the on-farm energy required to provide groundwater and will enable growers to operate improved drip systems. Henry Miller Reclamation District 2131 Arroyo Canal Modernization Reclamation Funding: $434,975, Total Project Cost: $886,802 The project will install four long-crested weirs (LCW) on the main canal for the district. LCWs precisely control canal-water levels and help prevent system spills. Installing LCWs will reduce the water-level fluctuations in the canal, providing more constant water deliveries. This will improve the reliability and the flexibility of the water deliveries to growers and promote accurate measuring and water accounting. The district estimates the project will conserve 7,200 acre-feet of water per year and enable district growers to invest in more efficient irrigation systems such as pressurized drip systems. Firebaugh Canal Water District Firebaugh Canal Water District 1st Lift Canal Lining Project Phase 1-Terminus to Washoe Avenue Reclamation Funding: $1,000,000 Total Project Cost: $2,814,000 The project will concrete-line 2.6 miles of earthen canal to prevent seepage and sediment in delivered surface water. By decreasing the suspended silts, growers can reduce the back-flushing and filtering needed for efficient on-farm irrigation systems. In addition to conserving 300 acre-feet of water per year, this project will encourage growers to install high-efficiency on-farm irrigation systems such as drip or sub-surface drip irrigation.
05.11.2011	Comprehensive bill meets future energy needs, invests in American infrastructure Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) and other members of the bipartisan House Energy Working Group unveiled today the Infrastructure Jobs and Energy Independence Act, a comprehensive solution to secure America’s energy future, put Americans back to work, and rebuild the nation’s water and transportation infrastructure without raising taxes or increasing the national debt. The only bipartisan, comprehensive energy plan introduced in the House, it will create an estimated 1.2 million jobs annually and generate $8 trillion in economic output. “With gas prices skyrocketing and turmoil in the Middle East, it is clear we can no longer afford to keep pumping our dollars to unstable regions of the world,” Costa said. “We’ve got to develop our energy right here in America using every tool in our energy toolbox. This bipartisan legislation will reduce our dependence on foreign oil, develop American energy, repair our infrastructure, and create hundreds of thousands of good jobs in the Valley and across the nation – all without raising taxes.” The Infrastructure Jobs and Energy Independence Act harnesses America’s vast natural resources by allowing the safe, responsible expansion of offshore oil and gas exploration. The legislation dedicates the $2.2 to $3.7 trillion in new federal revenues that would be generated from offshore energy production to create jobs, cut the deficit, invest in clean coal and nuclear technology, clean up our environment, increase renewable and alternative energy sources, and rebuild our crumbling highways and bridges. U.S. offshore resources are enough to replace oil imports from Venezuela and Saudi Arabia for the next 80 years and enough clean natural gas to fuel American industry for the next 63 years, yet remain largely untapped. Meanwhile, unemployment in some parts of the Valley is in the double digits and our national infrastructure needs an estimated $2.2 trillion for repair. The Infrastructure Jobs and Energy Independence Act uses American resources to create American jobs and take back our energy destiny from potentially hostile overseas governments. Since its formation in March, the bipartisan Energy Working Group, led by Costa, Tim Murphy (R-PA), Tim Walz (D-MN), and Bill Shuster (R-PA), has focused on achieving goals set by the President to reduce oil imports by one-third over the next 10 years. The group realizes that any energy plan must contain both short- and long-term solutions to provide relief from high oil prices and make direct investments in energy independence, infrastructure and job creation. Toward that end the group has been meeting privately, without the influence of lobbyists or interest groups, to form a common-sense national energy strategy that meets future energy needs while ending our addiction to foreign oil. # # #
05.09.2011	Fresno, CA – As food and gas prices and the national debt continue to rise to unacceptable heights, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) urged Congressional leaders to allow a full and fair debate on the taxpayer subsidization of corn-based ethanol. In a letter sent last week to President Obama, Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, Speaker of the House John Boehner, and Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, Costa highlighted the $6 billion price tag of corn-based ethanol subsidies and the skyrocketing food and gas prices that are the result of this misguided policy. “American taxpayers are footing the bill for corn-based ethanol subsidies that are causing gas prices, food prices, and our national debt to rise,” Costa said. “We ought to have a full and fair debate about the cost of these subsidies and the effect they have on the price of everyday goods in California. Ethanol is one tool in our energy toolbox, but the current ethanol policy is unsustainable.” American taxpayers currently subsidize the production of corn-based ethanol through a $0.45 per gallon ethanol tax credit; the enforcement of the federal Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS), which mandates the use of ethanol; and a $0.54 per gallon tariff on imported corn-based ethanol. Costa’s letter is below: Dear President Obama, Secretary Geithner, Speaker Boehner, and Minority Leader Pelosi: As Congress debates deficit reduction, tax reform, reauthorization of the Farm Bill and policies to promote trade there has never been a more appropriate time to revisit our ethanol policy. Subsidization of corn-based ethanol in particular is driving up input costs for farmers, ranchers and dairymen while also creating record-high food prices for American consumers. The $0.45 per gallon ethanol tax credit costs taxpayers more than $6 billion a year – nearly double the $3 billion in tax incentives oil and gas companies receive – and the result has been a financial burden for America’s livestock producers and financial hardship for many American families struggling to put food on the table. Combined with the federal Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS), which mandates the use of ethanol, and a $0.54 per gallon import tariff, which makes importing ethanol prohibitively expensive, corn-based ethanol is among the most heavily subsidized industries in America. Given the need to rein in federal spending and focus our limited resources where they will do the most good I encourage the leadership of both parties to allow and encourage an open debate on our nation’s ethanol policy. As members of Congress more thoroughly understand the costs and benefits of our ethanol policies I am confident we can come together to implement commonsense reforms that promote alternative energy production without driving up costs for farmers or consumers.
05.08.2011	Costa Continues Leading Fight for Additional Funding, Creating Thousands of Jobs Fresno, CA – After leading the fight for California’s high-speed rail system in Congress, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced today $300 million in additional federal funding for construction of the nation’s first, true high-speed rail system. These funds will extend the track and civil work from Fresno to the “Wye” junction, which will provide a connection to San Jose to the West and Merced to the North. The funding was made available through the Federal Railroad Administration’s (FRA) High-Speed and Intercity Rail Program. After Florida rejected federal high-speed rail funding, Costa led the fight to redirect this funding to California’s high-speed rail system. In April, Costa wrote a letter (attached), signed by 14 other members of Congress, to Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood urging support for California’s application for Florida’s rejected funds. Costa called the announcement another victory for the Central Valley and another step toward completion of the planned 800-mile system which will connect 80% of California’s population. “High-speed rail in California means one thing: jobs,” said Costa. “This additional $300 million in federal funding will create hundreds of thousands of good jobs and unleash more economic opportunities in the Central Valley. Building a high-speed rail system in California is a marathon, not a sprint, and this announcement is another step toward realizing our vision of the nation’s first, true high-speed rail system. We, in the Central Valley, are leading the state in the construction of this system, and California is leading the nation. This announcement is a major victory for our Valley.” Matching funds will be provided through the state bond which Costa originally authored.
05.04.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman Jim Costa (D-CA) announced Fresno, Kings, and Kern counties will receive a total of $4,213,715 in federal funding to combat homelessness. The grants were awarded in a U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) national competition through the Continuum of Care Homeless Assistance (CoC) programs. “This critical funding will allow some of the San Joaquin Valley’s best non-profit, faith-based, and governmental organizations to continue fighting the scourge of homelessness in our communities,” said Costa. “I salute the worthy recipients of these grants, and I am proud that HUD saw fit to recognize the good work already being done in the Valley to combat homelessness.” The following organizations in Fresno, Kings, and Kern counties were awarded HUD grants: Bakersfield Homeless Center, $90,000 Flood Bakersfield Ministries, $89,038 County of Kern Housing Authority, $1,743,780 Kern County Mental Health, $74,592 HMIS Expansion, $75,000 City of Fresno Housing Authority, $645,047 Marjaree Mason Center, $445,000 Kings Community Action Organization, $230,418 Kings United Way, $158,008 Clinica Sierra Vista, $662,832 Last year, at Costa’s invitation, Barbara Poppe, the Director of the Interagency Council on Homelessness toured Fresno with the Congressman and Mayor Swearengin, seeing firsthand the magnitude of the Valley’s homelessness epidemic. “Homelessness is a multifaceted and complex problem that requires an innovative and comprehensive approach. This funding will serve as an important down payment on the fight to end homelessness once and for all,” Costa added. CoC programs provide funding for a range of assistance to persons who are homeless, including transitional housing, permanent housing, and a variety of supportive services.
05.02.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman Jim Costa (D-CA) released the following statement regarding the announcement yesterday by President Obama that Osama bin Laden has been brought to justice: “Almost ten years after the United States was brutally attacked by al Qaeda, Osama bin Laden is finally dead. I am grateful to the brave men and women of the United States military and intelligence communities who carried out this dangerous operation, and I salute the determined efforts of President Bush and President Obama to right this grievous wrong. After yesterday’s events, let there be no doubt of America’s resolve to bring to justice those who seek to do us harm.”
04.27.2011	Reps. Costa, Nunes, Cardoza: We support JSF “without reservation” Fresno, CA – Congressman Jim Costa (D-CA) announced today his support for the selection of Naval Air Station (NAS) Lemoore as the future home of the F-35C Joint Strike Fighter (JSF) mission. Costa was joined by fellow Central Valley Congressmen Devin Nunes (R) and Dennis Cardoza (D) in sending a letter to the United States Navy urging the homebasing of the JSF aircraft at the Central Valley naval installation. “NAS Lemoore’s strategic location in California’s Central Valley and excellent mission support facilities make this installation best suited for the Joint Strike Fighter mission,” Costa wrote with his colleagues. “Continued success at NAS Lemoore will benefit both the United States Navy and the Central Valley that we call home. Without reservation, we support homebasing the Joint Strike Fighter mission at NAS Lemoore.” The Navy is currently considering locations on the West Coast to base the F-35C Joint Strike Fighter mission. These aircraft will replace the FA-18C Hornet aircraft currently stationed at NAS Lemoore. As required by the National Environmental Protection Act, the Navy is drafting an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) regarding the potential homebasing of the JSF on the West Coast. The Draft EIS will be published early next year. The text of the letter Costa sent with his colleagues is below: April 25, 2011 The Honorable Roger M. Natsuhara Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Navy 1000 Navy Pentagon Room 4E739 Washington, DC 20350 Dear Secretary Natsuhara, As members of Congress from California’s Central Valley, we write in strong support of the homebasing of the F-35C Joint Strike Fighter at Naval Air Station (NAS) Lemoore. NAS Lemoore’s strategic location in California’s Central Valley and excellent mission support facilities make this installation best suited for the Joint Strike Fighter mission. As the newest and largest West Coast naval master jet base, NAS Lemoore is uniquely positioned to accept these new aircraft and the accompanying Navy personnel. With two 13,500 foot runways, a naval hospital, a new housing complex, and other facilities that increase the quality of life for the men and women of our Navy, NAS Lemoore has become an integral part of West Coast naval operations, the city of Lemoore, and surrounding communities. Further, a nearby veterans hospital offers quality healthcare for our robust community of naval personnel, veterans, and their families. Since its commissioning in 1961, NAS Lemoore has been an economic engine for the city of Lemoore and California’s Central Valley. All told, NAS Lemoore has contributed more than a half a billion dollars to the regional economy and generated over 4,540 jobs in our communities. Continued success at NAS Lemoore will benefit both the United States Navy and the Central Valley that we call home. Without reservation, we support homebasing the Joint Strike Fighter mission at NAS Lemoore. Sincerely, JIM COSTA Member of Congress DEVIN NUNES Member of Congress DENNIS CARDOZA Member of Congress
04.08.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-CA) released the following statement regarding the recently announced budget compromise. “From the outset of this debate, I have encouraged both parties to come together and reach a bipartisan consensus on a budget that keeps the government running, reduces our deficit, and reflects the values we hold as Americans. As we saw during these recent discussions, partisan bickering and bitter political attacks don’t solve problems. The only way to find solutions is by sitting down in good faith, holding true to our shared values, and finding common ground. “As thankful as I am that we averted a devastating government shutdown this evening, I remain concerned about the challenges on the horizon. For the past three months we have debated a small slice of the federal budget – just 15 percent. With our national debt close to 14 trillion dollars, arguing about millions and billions just won’t cut it. We need an adult conversation about our fiscal future with everything on the table. We simply cannot afford to kick this can down the road a minute longer. Let’s get to work.” # # #
04.07.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-CA) released the following statement in response to the death of two Navy officers from Naval Air Station, Lemoore. “I was deeply saddened to learn of this tragedy that took the lives of two men who have served their country honorably. It is a tragic reminder that the men and women of our Armed Forces put their lives at risk every single day in defense of our beloved country. My thoughts and prayers are with the family and friends of Lt. Matthew Ira Lowe and Lt. Nathan Hollingsworth Williams and the entire Lemoore community.”
04.05.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) reminded high school students that the submission deadline for the 2011 Congressional Art Competition (CAC), "An Artistic Discovery," is 5:00pm on April 8, 2011. High school students who live in California’s 20th Congressional District are encouraged to enter the competition for a chance to have their piece exhibited en route to the United States Capitol Building for an entire year. Guidelines for the competition are as follows: Participants must be high school students residing in the 20th District Artwork must be no larger than 28" by 28" framed (framing not required) and two-dimensional Eligible forms of artwork are paintings, prints, drawings, collages, computer art, mixed media and photography A release form certifying the originality of the art piece must be signed by teacher and student Artwork cannot weigh more than 15 lbs Entries must be submitted by 5:00pm on April 8, 2011 to either the Fresno or Bakersfield District Office Since 1982, the Congressional Art Competition has honored the creative talents of thousands of high school students across the nation. Local competitions are voluntarily hosted by Members of Congress in their home districts. In June, the winning piece is sent to Washington, and winners are invited to the Capitol for a ribbon-cutting ceremony and Congressional reception. The national competition receives over 500 entries every year. For further information, please visit https://www.costa.house.gov or contact Joel Saldana in Congressman Costa’s Fresno District Office at (559) 495-1620.
03.31.2011	Members to soon introduce energy independence and job creation bill Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) today announced the formation of the House Energy Working Group, a bipartisan group that will introduce a clean-energy independence plan that creates a new energy infrastructure and rebuilds our country’s aging roads, bridges, locks and dams. The group will be led by Reps. Costa, Tim Murphy (R-PA), Bill Shuster (R-PA), and Tim Walz (D-MN). Last session, the legislators introduced HR 2227, the American Conservation and Clean Energy Independence Act. “The bipartisan House Energy Working Group is a solid first step toward securing America’s energy independence,” said Costa. “With gas prices skyrocketing and turmoil in the Middle East, it is clear we can no longer afford to keep pumping our dollars to unstable regions of the world. We’ve got to develop our energy right here in America using every tool in our energy toolbox. It’s time to put aside our political labels and get to work for the good of the country.” As gas prices continue to rise, experts warn that gas prices could soon reach five dollars a gallon. OPEC stands to reap over $840 billion in revenue this year, much of it from the United States, which imports nearly 60% of its oil. Meanwhile, after forty years of talking about energy independence, America has yet to implement a long term, national energy strategy. Energy independence is vital for national security, as reduced reliance on foreign oil and gas increases stability here at home. The House Energy Working Group has pledged to leave politics at the door and focus on comprehensive and common-sense solutions. The group announced the first step in that process will be the reintroduction of the American Conservation and Clean Energy Independence Act, a bipartisan bill that received 40 cosponsors in the last Congress. The legislation puts America directly on the path to energy independence by encouraging the development of our own resources. The Group will introduce legislation dedicating an estimated $2.2 to $3.7 trillion in royalty and lease payments from offshore energy production for investments in alternative energy and energy efficiency, lower emissions at power plants, clean water and rebuilding America’s infrastructure. The bill also extends tax incentives for clean energy production and conservation to foster new, long-term investments in clean energy technology. “Our bipartisan working group is singularly focused on accomplishing the goal of energy independence. As both Democrats and Republicans, we've set aside politics to develop legislation that will grow jobs and boost our economy,” said Murphy. “Today, the President announced his goal of reducing oil imports by one-third over the next ten years, a goal we will be working on in our bipartisan energy group to achieve. There’s no reason to continue importing oil from unstable and unfriendly regimes abroad when we can use our own vast natural resources in a safe and responsible way to take back our energy destiny." “America has vast reserves of domestic energy that can harness our transition to a new energy economy that will lead us closer to independence from our dangerous reliance on foreign oil,” said Shuster. “I am pleased to cosponsor this common-sense and important legislation with my colleagues. It is past time that we invest in domestic energy to create American jobs and power our nation with American energy.” “I am proud to be part of this bi-partisan coalition of lawmakers. I believe putting aside partisan bickering and finding common-sense solutions will speed up America’s transition to an energy independent future,” said Walz. “Continuing to send our money overseas to countries that don’t like us doesn’t make any sense. We can tap into the American can-do spirit and work together to find better, more affordable ways to power our homes, workplaces and schools.”
03.29.2011	Costa: It’s time to put aside political differences, end regulatory drought Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) today introduced H.R. 1251, the More Water for Our Valley Act, continuing his efforts to find commonsense solutions to California’s broken water system. The attached legislation would ease restrictions on pumping that have limited the flow of water to the San Joaquin Valley, ensuring more water for Valley farmers and reasonable protection for endangered species. Costa spoke on the House floor in support of this needed legislation. Video of the speech can be found here and text of the bill can be found here. “Madam Speaker, California’s Governor will soon declare an end to a drought that has devastated the San Joaquin Valley. Our cities are flooding, our rivers are raging, and snowpack in the Sierras is deeper than any of the past 15 years. “It is clear that the drought is over. Somehow, Washington hasn’t gotten the news. “With unemployment still in double digits in seven counties in the Valley, some folks here in Washington think our communities can recover from the Great Recession with just over half the water our farmers need. They don’t understand the Valley. They don’t understand us. “Water is lifeblood of the Valley. It puts food on our tables, sustains our economy, and creates good jobs. “That’s why today I’m introducing legislation that would allow needed flexibility for California’s water policy. As we work to find short and long term solutions to California’s broken water system, passing this commonsense legislation will bring over 500,000 acre feet of water to Valley farmers and farm communities. “It’s time to put aside our political differences, it’s time to reach a compromise, and it’s time to end this regulatory drought.”
03.28.2011	Costa: Commonsense bill would mean more water, more jobs for the Valley FRESNO, CA – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) unveiled new legislation today that would bring significantly more water to Valley farmers and growers who receive water from the Central Valley Project (CVP) and the California State Water Project (SWP). The legislation would for four years provide congressional direction to implementation of the Endangered Species Act, restore operational flexibility for California water projects, and provide reasonable protection to threatened species. Specifically, the legislation would modify reasonable and prudent alternatives in the biological opinions for the operations of the CVP and the SWP issued by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service and the National Marine Fisheries Service. “Our streets are flooding, our food banks are going empty, and unemployment in the Valley is nearing 20%. California’s water system is broken. We can fix it,” said Costa. “This commonsense legislation would bring needed flexibility to California’s water policy. If this bill becomes law, our Valley would receive an additional 200,000 acre feet of water that could be put to good use this summer. This bill means more water, more jobs, and a stronger economy for the San Joaquin Valley. It is time to put aside our political labels and get to work for the people of the valley by sending this bill to the President's desk.” The legislation is supported by numerous Valley water districts, including Westlands Water District and Friant Water Authority. Tom Birmingham, General Manager of Westlands Water District, added, "We are on track to have one of the wettest years on record in California, and farmers on the Westside of the San Joaquin Valley have been told that they can expect to receive slightly more than half of their normal water supplies. This unimaginable situation is the result of rigid restrictions placed on operations of the Central Valley Project under the Endangered Species Act, restrictions that the Court and the National Academies of Science have found are not supported by science. The legislation that Mr. Costa will introduce will change this situation.” Joe Del Bosque, owner of Empresas Del Bosque, Inc. of Los Banos, CA, and member of the California Water Commission, highlighted the positive effect this legislation would have on his farm: “With this additional water, we could grow another 120 acres of cantaloupes, 85 acres of asparagus, and irrigate 500 more acres of wheat. The increase would bring 25 jobs to my farm alone and put food on the table for more Valley families.”
03.22.2011	FRESNO, CA – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) and Congressman Dennis Cardoza (D-Merced) released the following statement: “We are pleased with the decision by Natural Resources Committee Chairman Doc Hastings and Water and Power Subcommittee Chairman Tom McClintock to hold a hearing in Fresno on the impact of burdensome regulations on the water supply of the San Joaquin Valley. Nothing demonstrates the devastating impact of these regulations more than the Bureau of Reclamation’s announcement today of just 5% more water for our Valley. “When the President flies to San Francisco next month, we hope he takes the time to look out the window and see the impact his Administration is having on the forgotten San Joaquin Valley’s water supply. Unlike previous years when federal officials could legitimately claim that water supply reductions were due, in part, to drought conditions, this year demonstrates the draconian impact these regulations have on the people who live and work on the Westside of the San Joaquin Valley. “The Bureau’s announcement is no doubt helpful, but it underscores how truly broken California’s water system really is. With abundant rain and above average snowpack, a 55% allocation just won’t cut it. When other federal service areas are receiving 100% of their water and the State Water Project predicts a 70% allocation, it is clear the system is broken, period. It can be fixed. If the Administration would follow our recommendations alone, we could receive up to an additional 200,000 acre feet of water that could be put to good use this summer. “The fight for water is an issue that touches the life of virtually every person who lives and works in the San Joaquin Valley - not just farmers and farm workers. The time for political gamesmanship and damaging rhetoric is over. Working with the Senate, we must come together in good faith to find real, bipartisan solutions. We are hopeful that the hearing held here in Fresno will provide important information to help identify those solutions.”
03.14.2011	The recent earthquake in Japan and the tsunami that swept across the Pacific Ocean have taken thousands of lives and destroyed the homes and livelihoods of countless individuals. My thoughts and prayers go out to the people of Japan in this time of dire need. Resources If you are concerned about the safety of friends or family and you cannot get in touch with them, you may contact the U.S. State Department at '); document.write(addy_text53373); document.write('<\/a>'); //-->\n JapanEmergencyUSC@state.gov '); //--> This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. '); //--> or call 1-888-407-4747. Continuously updated information can be found on the State Department’s website, and the Japanese Embassy’s website. For further information on the United States response to this crisis and how you can help with recovery efforts, please visit the White House's website hereand the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) at https://www.usaid.gov/japanquake/help/ Additional Information U.S. Department of Energywww.energy.gov NOAA’s National Weather Service Pacific Tsunami Warning Centerhttps://ptwc.weather.gov/ OECD Nuclear Energy Agencywww.oecd-nea.org Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency (in Japan)www.nisa.meti.go.jp/english/ Japanese Meteorological Agencywww.jma.go.jp/en/tsunami
03.10.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that the Fresno Fire Department will receive an Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency. “Every day, our firefighters put their lives on the line for the safety of the residents of Fresno,” said Costa. “We have an obligation to protect these brave men and women and ensure that they have the best equipment and training possible. This grant is a significant and smart investment in the safety of all Fresnans.” Awarded through the Operations and Safety Program Area of the AFG awards, the Fresno Fire Department was awarded $236,880. This funding can be used for training, equipment, personal protective equipment, wellness and fitness, and health and safety modifications to stations and facilities. The purpose of the AFG Program is to award funding directly to fire departments and EMS organizations that are unaffiliated with a hospital to improve their ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first responders. Through a competitive process overseen by experts in the fire service field, AFG grants are awarded to applicants whose requests best address the priorities of the AFG Program. For more information, visit the AFG Program’s website.
03.10.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced $616,502 in federal funding for the Shafter Community Health Center. The grant, made available through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Health Center program, will enable this health center to provide comprehensive, quality health care services to families in the Central Valley. “Rural communities in California depend on access to quality, affordable health care,” said Costa. “With this critical investment, the Shafter Community Health Center will be able to continue offering comprehensive primary and preventative health care services to those who need it most while enabling the center to provide additional health care services including dental care and substance abuse services.” Opened in December 2002, the Shafter Community Health Center operates on a year-round basis, providing a full range of primary and preventive care and supportive services to an underserved population, including migrant and seasonal farm workers.
02.28.2011	Costa Will Also Serve on Agriculture Subcommittee on Conservation, Energy & Forestry; Resources Subcommittees on Water & Power and Energy & Mineral Resources Fresno, CA – After being selected as Ranking Member on the Rural Development, Research, Biotechnology and Foreign Agriculture Subcommittee, Congressman Costa made the following statement: “Our smaller cities and rural areas are a critical part of our Valley’s economy,” said Costa. “By serving as Ranking Member of the Rural Development, Research, Biotechnology and Foreign Agriculture Subcommittee, I intend to bring much needed attention to the priorities of our rural towns. From Selma to Parlier, Kettlemen City to Weedpatch, the Valley has a great deal of need.” “As Ranking Member, I am also committed to protecting research programs at our Valley’s great agricultural colleges like my alma mater, Fresno State and defending successful export initiatives like the Market Access Program that have helped to expand markets and promote U.S. agriculture products abroad.” Costa will continue as a member of the Resources Subcommittee on Water and Power.“Water and jobs continue to be among my highest priorities as I represent the needs of farmers, farm workers, and farm communities in our Valley. Even as rain and snow are falling throughout the state, we know that our Valley’s water issues are far from over. I look forward to working in a bipartisan fashion with my colleagues on the Water and Power Subcommittee and this Administration as we look for real solutions to our state’s water challenges.” Congressman Costa will serve on the following subcommittees: Committee on Agriculture: · Subcommittee on Rural Development, Research, Biotechnology, and Foreign Agriculture Jurisdiction: Rural development; farm security and family farming matters; agricultural research, education, and extension services; biotechnology, foreign agriculture assistance and trade promotion programs, generally. · Subcommittee on Conservation, Energy & Forestry Jurisdiction: Soil, water, and resource conservation, small watershed program, energy and biobased energy production, rural electrification, forestry in general and forest reserves other than those created from the public domain. Committee on Resources · Subcommittees on Water and Power Jurisdiction: Generation and marketing of electric power from Federal water projects by Federally chartered or Federal regional power marketing authorities, water resources planning conducted pursuant to the Water Resources Planning Act, water resource research and development programs and saline water research and development, interstate waters, water rights and major interbasin water or power movement programs, irrigation and reclamation projects, water resources development and recycling programs, Indian water rights and settlements, international water programs · Energy & Mineral Resources Jurisdiction: U.S. Geological Survey, except for the activities and programs of the Water Resources Division or its successor, geothermal resources, conservation U.S. uranium supply, Mining interests, conservation and development of oil and gas resources of the Outer Continental Shelf, petroleum conservation on the public lands and conservation of the radium supply, transportation of natural gas from or within Alaska and disposition of oil transported by the trans-Alaska oil pipeline, rights of way over public lands for underground energy-related transportation.
02.28.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) released the following statement on President Barack Obama’s State of the Union address: “The President’s call for all Americans to work together to make the country’s economic recovery our highest priority is something we can all agree on. Some of us in Congress have been saying that for the past two years!” "The President’s “Winning the Future” blueprint has outlined the many challenges that lie ahead – reducing the deficit, reforming government to make it more efficient and effective, and investing in infrastructure, education and innovation. America must maintain its world-wide competitive edge in this arena.” “The key to the Valley’s future is the health of the state’s water infrastructure and ensuring an adequate and reliable supply of water remains my highest priority. It is the key to our economic recovery and the way to win the future for Valley residents. I join the Administration’s call for shared responsibility with my Republican colleagues as we work together on the country’s economic recovery.
02.28.2011	FRESNO – Today, Congressman Jim Costa announced that in response to his request, the U.S. Department of Agriculture has decided to fully deregulate Roundup Ready Alfalfa. “Last year I joined my colleagues in requesting Secretary Vilsack take this action, and I am glad that the USDA was able to make this common sense decision,” Costa said. “This decision is good news for Valley agriculture, dairies and jobs”. Attached is a copy of the full USDA announcement.
02.28.2011	Fresno, CA – Upon learning of today’s decision by the Department of the Army, the National Cemetery Administration, and the Veterans Administration to deny a waiver request for Hmong General Vang Pao to be interred in Arlington National Cemetery, Congressman Jim Costa issued the following statement: “General Vang Pao and our Hmong Veterans fought shoulder to shoulder with American soldiers during the Vietnam war,”“Many paid the ultimate sacrifice, and our nation owes a debt of gratitude to General Vang Pao and these patriotic individuals. Their service should be honored," said Costa. “General Vang Pao and our Hmong Veterans fought shoulder to shoulder with American soldiers during the Vietnam war,”“Many paid the ultimate sacrifice, and our nation owes a debt of gratitude to General Vang Pao and these patriotic individuals. Their service should be honored. said Costa. “I am very disappointed that the Administration has seen fit to be so insensitive to General Vang Pao’s widow, family, and our community on the first day of his funeral service by denying him burial in Arlington National Cemetery. There is a precedent for the approval of these waivers for non-US military personnel. General Vang Pao clearly meets the tests required of time, service, and loyalty to our country. He should have been granted this waiver.” Major General Vang Pao led the Royal Lao Army during the Secret War in Laos, fighting against the People’s Army of Vietnam in cooperation with the CIA and United States military forces. These forces numbered in the tens of thousands and conducted direct missions against Communist forces and North Vietnamese supporters. Bravely leading thousands of soldiers in a guerilla war, Vang Pao became a hero due to his leadership and dedication. Immigrating to the United States in May of 1975, Major General Vang Pao was instrumental in negotiating the resettlement of thousands of his fellow Hmong. Vang Pao continued his leadership after his exit from military service. He was active in fostering US-Lao relations, and combating human rights abuses abroad. The General passed away Thursday January 6th after a battle with pneumonia.
02.28.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa today announced $16.922 million in emergency funding from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to prevent the spread of the European grapevine moth in California. This funding will help Central Valley farmers combat the spread of this foreign pest, which was first found in California in 2009. “Preventing the spread of the European grapevine moth means ensuring the financial security of Central Valley famers and their families,” said Costa. “I am pleased the Administration has recognized the seriousness of this threat and continues to provide resources to detect and prevent its spread. In the last Farm Bill, I fought hard for pest and disease funding to give our farmers the tools to combat the new pest Valley agriculture faces each day. This emergency funding will go a long way toward protecting our Valley economy.” Barry Bedwell, President of the California Grape and Tree Fruit League, commented, “This funding is coming at a critical time for our growers to intercept the first flight of the grapevine moth,” said Bedwell. “With the help from our partners in Congress and the Department of Agriculture, we will be able to continue to protect our crop from this pest.” This funding, made available through USDA’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS), is dedicated to stopping the spread of the grapevine moth at an early stage. Funds go towards the trapping, detection, and surveying of the pest. Background The European grapevine moth is found in Europe, the Mediterranean, southern Russia, Japan, the Middle East, Near East and northern and western Africa. Since 1986, surveys for this pest have been conducted throughout the United States without detections. However, in the fall of 2009, EGVM was found in California, its first detection both in the United States and North America. To date, CDFA has established quarantines based on EGVM detections in Fresno, Mendocino, Merced, Napa, Solano and Sonoma counties. More information about APHIS’ European grapevine moth program is available online at www.aphis.usda.gov/plant_health/plant_pest_info/eg_moth/index.shtml.
02.28.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno), along with Congressmen Dennis Cardoza (D-CA), Larry Kissell (D-NC), and Mike McCaul (R-TX), wrote a letter to President Barack Obama urging him to reverse U.S. Army Secretary John McHugh’s decision to reject a waiver request for Hmong General Vang Pao to be interred at Arlington National Cemetery. “The approval of this burial request is a solid step in the journey of Hmong recognition, which began with the Executive Order President Ford signed, allowing for the resettling of thousands of Hmong in the United States after the war,” wrote the bipartisan coalition. After delivering the letter, Congressman Costa released the following statement: “I believe the Secretary of the Army has made a poor decision in rejecting the burial waiver requested by the family and supporters of General Vang Pao and the entire Hmong-American community.” BackgroundMajor General Vang Pao led the Royal Lao Army during the Secret War in Laos, fighting against the People’s Army of Vietnam in cooperation with the CIA and United States military forces. These forces numbered in the tens of thousands and conducted direct missions against Communist forces and North Vietnamese supporters. Bravely leading thousands of soldiers in a guerilla war, Vang Pao became a hero due to his leadership and dedication. Immigrating to the United States in May of 1975, Major General Vang Pao was instrumental in negotiating the resettlement of thousands of his fellow Hmong. Vang Pao continued his leadership after his exit from military service. He was active in fostering US-Lao relations, and combating human rights abuses abroad. The General passed away Thursday January 6th after a battle with pneumonia. On February 4, 2010, Secretary McHugh rejected the burial waiver requested by the family and supporters of General Vang Pao. In his role as Commander in Chief, the President is able to overturn the Secretary’s decision to reject the waiver. According to a report from the U.S. Government Accountability Office, between 1967 and 1998, 113 individuals without military service were approved for Arlington burial, out of a documented 156 requests. The total number of approvals during this time period was 196, out of 340 total requests. The Clinton administration overruled the Army Assistant Secretary’s denial recommendation at least 12 times during his 2 terms.
02.28.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) made the following statement at a hearing of the House Committee on Agriculture’s Subcommittee on Rural Development, Research, Biotechnology and Foreign Agriculture. The hearing focused on the various definitions of “rural” applied under programs operated by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Congressman Costa is the Ranking Democratic Member on the Subcommittee. Statement as prepared for delivery: “Good morning Chairman Johnson. Thank you for calling today’s hearing, and I congratulate you on being named Chairman to this Subcommittee for the 112th Congress. I look forward to working with you and all the members on both sides of the aisle on the many issues under our jurisdiction. I am proud of what this Committee has accomplished in a bipartisan fashion during my time in Congress and I hope we can continue down that road for the next two years. “Today’s hearing is an important one, because the various statutory and regulatory definitions of ‘rural’ applied to USDA Rural Development programs have a significant effect on rural communities in my district and home state. For most of your here today, I’m sure the first thing that comes to mind when you think of California is more likely to be Hollywood or palm trees than rural America. “But the fact is, my congressional district is one of the most productive agricultural regions in the country and many of our communities are not only rural, but also largely poor and disadvantaged. Despite the need, my district continues to struggle with eligibility for these programs, whether it is rural housing, health, or essential community facilities, largely because of the criteria used to define rural communities. “Establishing a nationwide definition of rural continues to challenge districts like mine across the country. I think everyone here, USDA included, would be hard-pressed to come up with a singular definition that accurately portrays what it means to be rural in each and every state. Unfortunately, these definitions do apply and often exclude communities and their residents from financing essential infrastructure like housing, basic utilities, and health facilities. “Definitions based on population or distances from urbanized areas also do not take into account other socioeconomic factors that could elevate communities to be ideal candidates for Rural Development programs. Some cities grow above the population cutoff without the accompanying increased economic development and diversified economies that many people associate with urban areas. Some community facilities primarily serve rural residents despite their ‘urban’ classification. These facilities - though serving rural needs - remain ineligible for rural programs that aim to meet these goals. The Central Valley of California has seen this play out time and time again. “Recent Farm Bills have made tweaks to the definition of rural, so I look forward to hearing from both panels on whether or not a new approach is needed. It’s no secret that Rural Development is under the budget microscope, even with nearly all of their programs being oversubscribed. If more rural communities can be better served with a different set of criteria or a different regionally-based approach to development, then that is something this Committee should consider for the next Farm Bill. “I hope USDA will be able to provide this Committee with some suggestions from the lessons it has learned from the administration of awards not just in annual appropriations, but the Recovery Act funds to certain RD programs that aimed to bolster essential infrastructure. Once again, I welcome today’s witnesses and I look forward to their testimony. I yield back my time. “
02.28.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) sharply criticized the Department of the Army’s treatment of a burial waiver request for Hmong General Vang Pao to be interred at Arlington National Cemetery in a letter addressed to Secretary of Defense Robert Gates. Secretary of the Army John McHugh issued a rejection of the burial waiver on February 4, 2011, the first day of the Hmong General’s well-attended funeral. “Since the Army was made aware of the funeral, the timing of the announcement showed both unacceptable disorganization and a callous insensitivity to the General’s family and the tens of thousands of funeral attendees,” Costa wrote to Secretary Gates. Costa also reiterated his deep disappointment in the Army’s rejection of the burial waiver, which was requested by the family and supporters of General Vang Pao. “In 1981, General Vang Pao set an example to his fellow countrymen by becoming an American citizen in the adopted country he loved. Without a doubt he deserved to be buried alongside the same men with whom he fought shoulder to shoulder, American soldiers,” Costa wrote. The Administration has yet to respond to a February 8, 2011, request by Costa and three other members of the House of Representatives to overturn Secretary McHugh’s decision. The text of the letter is laid out below: February 16, 2011 The Honorable Robert Gates Secretary of Defense 1300 Defense Pentagon Washington, DC 20301 Dear Secretary Gates: This letter serves to express my disappointment in the manner that your department handled my recent request for a burial waiver for Major General Vang Pao in Arlington National Cemetery. As you well know, General Vang Pao led the Royal Lao Army during the secret war in Laos, fighting against the People’s Army of Vietnam in cooperation with the CIA and US military forces. Commanding tens of thousands of Hmong men and women, Vang Pao conducted direct missions against communist forces. In 1981, General Vang Pao set an example to his fellow countrymen by becoming an American citizen in the adopted country he loved. Without a doubt he deserved to be buried alongside the same men with whom he fought shoulder to shoulder, American soldiers. Beyond the principal rejection of the overall request, I was also disappointed that your department chose to release the Army’s denial decision just as the General’s elaborate funeral began in Fresno California. Since the Army was made aware of the funeral, the timing of the announcement showed both unacceptable disorganization and a callous insensitivity to the General’s family and the tens of thousands of funeral attendees. Lastly, Secretary Gates, I’d like to express my dissatisfaction with the level of communication that my office and I received during the waiver request process. Calls to your Department and the Secretary of the Army’s office went unreturned and officials were not forthcoming with information about the waiver process and procedure. It is my hope to continue working with your department in a productive manner to address the many needs of California’s San Joaquin Valley. Unfortunately the Hmong people and I were let down by both the underlying decision in this matter, and in the way this process was handled. Thank you very much for your time and we look forward to hearing from you regarding this matter. Sincerely, /s/ JIM COSTA Member of Congress
02.28.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced $1,177,812 in federal funding for the United Health Centers (UHC) of the San Joaquin Valley. The grant, made available through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Health Center program, will enable these health centers to provide comprehensive, quality health care services to families in the Central Valley. “Rural communities in California depend on access to quality, affordable health care,” said Costa. “United Health Centers has provided high-quality health care to underserved populations in the Central Valley for almost 40 years. With this critical grant, UHC will be able to continue providing comprehensive primary health care services to those who need it most while enabling the centers to provide additional health care services including mental health care and substance abuse services.” UHC is a non-profit, community-based organization serving 28 rural communities in Fresno and Tulare Counties. The organization’s seven medical facilities are located in Parlier, Mendota, Sanger, Huron, Orange Cove, Kerman, and Earlimart. In 2009, the combined centers served 40,360 patients, 98% of whom lived at or below 200% of the federal poverty level.
02.28.2011	Costa Calls on Salazar to Ease Restrictions “The system is broken, period.” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that the Interior Department is forecasting an increased federal water supply allocation for south of the Delta agricultural contractors. In its 2011 Federal Water Allocation Outlook, the Interior Department forecasts a water allocation of 50 percent. After learning of the announcement, Costa delivered a letter to Interior Department Secretary Ken Salazar urging him to continue working to ease the regulatory restrictions that prevent more water from reaching Central Valley farms. “With a 50% allocation, the Valley can begin to get on its feet again. But, it should not be lost on anyone that regulatory restrictions are still impeding our progress,” Costa wrote. “I do not see any reason why agricultural service contractors on the Westside of the Valley should not be receiving upwards of 70% of contracted amounts by the final water supply allocation. We must do more…” In a statement released today, Costa reiterated the need to continue working toward a permanent solution to the Valley’s water woes: “Every additional drop of water that we secure for the Valley puts people back to work and helps our farmers take advantage of the most productive agricultural land in the country. But, a 50% allocation is a clear indication that the system is broken, period. We need a permanent solution for Valley farmers. Progress has been made, and there is much more to do.” The text of the letter to Secretary Salazar is laid out below: February 18, 2011 The Honorable Ken Salazar Secretary of the Interior Department of the Interior 1849 C Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20240 Dear Secretary Salazar: As you know, I have been working tirelessly with federal, state, and local water agencies along with my colleagues in Congress to bring real solutions to California’s ongoing water challenges. Every additional drop of water we have secured is a step forward in our continued efforts to provide a sustainable water supply to the region. I appreciate your commitment to partnering with me and the work that you and your staff put into finding ways within existing law to additional bring water to the San Joaquin Valley last year. This flexibility yielded real water that allowed farmers, farm workers, and farm communities in the Valley to receive more than a 45% water allocation last year while they rebounded from severe water supply shortages, regulatory cutbacks, and an economic recession. With your help, we have made good progress, but we must do better. Last year, we broke ground on projects like the Delta Mendota Canal-California Aqueduct Intertie. We secured critical funding for drought relief and water supply enhancement projects throughout the Valley and the State. At our urging – in conjunction decisions by Judge Oliver Wanger in the courts and the National Academy of Sciences – your Department is now in the process of revising and integrating the two biological opinions that have had such significant impacts on our Valley’s water supply. And, on top of these and countless efforts that are still in the works, we are finally seeing some progress on the Bay Delta Conservation Plan that will determine the long-term viability of our water system. While much has been done and more water is certainly flowing in the system, obstacles remain that could impede our progress. Today, the Bureau of Reclamation announced an initial 50% water supply allocation for agricultural service contractors in the Westside of the San Joaquin Valley. Although this is five times the amount that those same contractors received in 2009, hydrological conditions have improved dramatically since we were in the throes of the drought. Last December was one of the wettest months in recent history, and while this January was a dry month for the state, runoff and snowpack rates are continuing to approach and exceed numbers for an average water year for the Central Valley and State Water Projects. Furthermore, it is estimated that recent and coming winter storms will add even more water into the system. Mr. Secretary, it may go without saying that a 50% initial water supply allocation comes as good news to many of my constituents who were in dire straits during this last drought, but it’s not enough. Farmers can take this number to the bank, secure a loan, and rebuild their businesses when they were turned away before. Acres of fallowed agricultural lands can be cultivated, and farmers can grow the fresh vegetables, fruit, and fiber that feed our nation. With a 50% allocation, the Valley can begin to get on its feet again. But, it should not be lost on anyone that regulatory restrictions are still impeding our progress. In light of the hydrological conditions we have experienced this year, I do not see any reason why agricultural service contractors on the Westside of the Valley should not be receiving upwards of 70% of contracted amounts by the final water supply allocation. We must do more, and I look forward to continuing to work with you to find ways to increase the water flowing to farmers, farm workers, and farm communities on the Westside of the Valley. With this in mind, I would also like to take this opportunity check in with you as to the status of numerous water projects in the attached list on which I have been working with your staff over the past two years to bring to fruition. Once completed, many of these projects would be able to boost our water supply. As such, they should continue to be expedited and given your personal consideration. At your earliest convenience, please forward an update to me of the projects on the attached list so that we can keep this process moving. Once again, thank you for your attention to this and I look forward to your response. Sincerely, /s/ JIM COSTA Member of Congress
02.28.2011	Costa: “We cannot use an axe where a scalpel is needed” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) released the following statement after voting against H.R. 1, a continuing resolution that would fund the federal government through September 30, 2011: “This week the House had a serious debate about the difficult task of putting our economy back on the path toward fiscal sustainability. With our national debt approaching $14 trillion, it is imperative that we cut spending, grow our economy, and create jobs for the San Joaquin Valley. “Reducing our nation’s deficit requires careful consideration of our nation’s priorities. We cannot be reckless, and we cannot use an axe where a scalpel is needed. Throughout the course the week, I voted for more than $1 billion in additional targeted cuts to wasteful, inefficient, and ineffective programs. Tough oversight and targeted cuts like these are necessary for righting our fiscal house. “The legislation I voted against tonight won’t grow the economy and it won’t create jobs. It would mean fewer police officers patrolling our streets, fewer teachers in our classrooms, and fewer workers building a state of the art high speed rail system in the heart of the Central Valley. The legislation takes the meat axe approach to smart investments in education and health care that would prove beneficial for the Valley. “Further, this continuing resolution contained several provisions that could have jeopardized recent progress made to improve our Valley’s water supply. Numerous water managers across the San Joaquin Valley contacted me to warn of the unintended consequences of this legislation and urged me to vote against the legislation. Water remains among my highest priorities, and I cannot support carelessly crafted legislation that would undermine our efforts to bring water to our farms. “The legislation the House passed tonight is a first step in a very long process. I am hopeful that Republicans and Democrats can come together in a bipartisan fashion to improve this legislation. Our nation’s fiscal health depends on it.”
02.28.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced the 2011 Congressional Art Competition, "An Artistic Discovery," to give high school students in California’s 20th Congressional District an opportunity to showcase their artistic talents. High school students living in the 20th Congressional District are encouraged to enter the competition for a chance to have their piece exhibited en route to the United States Capitol Building for an entire year. “The annual Congressional Art Competition is a wonderful way to showcase works of art from high school students across the nation,” said Costa. “I look forward to seeing the great artistic talent of the San Joaquin Valley’s high school students.” Guidelines for the competition are as follows: 1. Participants must be high school students residing in the 20th District 2. Artwork must be no larger than 28" by 28" framed (framing not required) and two-dimensional 3. Eligible forms of artwork are paintings, prints, drawings, collages, computer art, mixed media and photography 4. A release form certifying the originality of the art piece must be signed by teacher and student 5. Artwork cannot weigh more than 15 lbs 6. Entries must be submitted by 5:00pm on April 8, 2011 to either the Fresno or Bakersfield District Office Since 1982, the Congressional Art Competition has honored the creative talents of thousands of high school students across the nation. Local competitions are voluntarily hosted by Members of Congress in their home districts. In June, the winning piece is sent to Washington, and winners are invited to the Capitol for a ribbon-cutting ceremony and Congressional reception. The national competition receives over 500 entries every year. For further information, please visit https://www.costa.house.gov or contact Angie Vega in Congressman Costa’s Fresno District Office at (559) 495-1620.
01.18.2011	Costa: “Our Valley is set to receive more water than in recent years. This is good news for Valley jobs and our economy.” FRESNO – Congressman Jim Costa today announced that the Interior Department is forecasting a federal water supply allocation for south of the Delta agricultural contractors that is four times greater than last year’s initial allocation. In its 2011 Federal Water Allocation Outlook, the Interior Department forecasts a water allocation of 45%. Last year’s initial water allocation was a mere 5%. Costa called the forecast a good starting point and an important step forward for the Valley’s economy. “Our Valley is set to receive more water than in recent years. This is good news for Valley jobs and our economy,” said Costa. “An increased forecast will allow our farmers to start planning for the coming growing season. Advanced planning will have a ripple effect throughout our economy, from growers to local businesses.” Water forecasts and initial allocations often improve as the water year develops. For instance, Costa along with other Valley lawmakers and leaders were able to press the Administration to bump last year’s initial allocation of 5% to over 40% by the end of the water year. “Given early snowpack levels and runoff, I view this forecast as a starting point we can increase overtime,” added Costa “We pressed the Administration to increase the water flowing to the Valley in 2010 and we can do it again this year.” Costa also recognized the Interior Department for today’s announcement: “Our work with Senator Feinstein and Congressman Cardoza to push the Administration has made a difference. They have shown a willingness to provide more administrative flexibility and attention to Valley water. I appreciate the efforts of the Interior Department on this critical issue and I look forward to working with everyone involved in California water to increase our supply.” Today’s water supply forecast will be followed by an official water allocation announcement of Water Year 2011 for the Central Valley Project. This initial water allocation announcement is planned for mid-February, as required by contract terms. Water supply updates will then be made monthly or more often as appropriate and will be posted on Reclamation’s website at https://www.usbr.gov/mp/pa/water.
01.11.2011	FRESNO – Congressman Jim Costa today requested that Major General Vang Pao be granted eligibility for burial at Arlington National Cemetery. The letter, which was also signed by Congressmen Dennis Cardoza, Madeleine Bordallo and Tim Holden, was sent on behalf of the General’s family to both Secretary of Defense Robert Gates and Secretary of Veterans Affairs Eric Shinseki. Major General Vang Pao of the Royal Lao Army led thousands of Hmong soldiers during the Secret War, fighting with the United States against the People’s Army of Vietnam. General Vang Pao passed away last week from complications to pneumonia.
01.08.2011	FRESNO – Congressman Jim Costa issued the following statement on the shooting in Tucson, Arizona involving Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords, members of her staff, and some constituents: “My thoughts and prayers, along with those of all Americans, go out to my colleague and friend Congresswoman Gabrielle (Gabby) Giffords and the other victims who were part of today’s tragic attack. Gabby and I have worked together on numerous issues since she came to Congress. She is bright, passionate, and cares deeply about her district and our country. For her husband Mark, my friend and veteran space shuttle commander, we are praying for you and your family. "Senseless acts of violence like this have no place in our country. An attack on an elected official communicating and meeting with her constituents is an assault on our freedoms and democratic process. The individual responsible for this cowardly attack should be prosecuted to the full extent of the law."
12.17.2010	Funding will strengthen agriculture and water science programs, boost enrollment for Hispanic students Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa today announced $783,000 in federal funds for West Hills College, Coalinga, and California State University, Fresno. The funding, made available through USDA’s National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA), will support the Valley’s agriculture economy by expanding academic programs in agriculture and water science. This includes investments in curriculum development, infrastructure and equipment expansion, and recruitment efforts across the Valley and in underserved communities with high populations of Hispanic students. “These funds are a down payment on our Valley’s future and an investment in our agriculture economy,”“These programs will train the next generation of farmers, leaders, and entrepreneurs who will keep our economy growing and competitive in a global market.” said Costa. Costa also highlighted the impact the funding will have on increasing enrollment in underserved communities like Hispanic students. Currently, only half of college-age Hispanics are enrolled in college-degree programs in the United States. Increasing student recruitment in our Valley’s underserved areas and Hispanic communities is critical to promoting economic opportunity across the region,” added Costa. “This good news is a testament to the hard work of West Hills College and CSU Fresno, and highlights the importance of advancing education here in our Valley.” The funding is part of NIFA’s Hispanic-Serving Institutions Education grants program. Recipients of the funding have an average Hispanic undergraduate enrollment of 49 percent. The funding is broken down between West Hills College and two projects at CSU Fresno. "The faculty and staff in the Jordan College of Agricultural Sciences and Technology are proud of the role we play in the agricultural economy of the valley,” said Dr. Charles Boyer, Dean of Jordan College of Agricultural Sciences and Technology (CSU Fresno). “These grants will allow us to better serve our educational and research missions and engage all students including Hispanic students.” “This grant positions our college in Coalinga to address the significant shortage of trained personnel in this Natural Resources Management area while strengthening our relationship with Fresno State’s Agricultural program,” said Dr. Frank Gornick, Chancellor of West Hills Community College District. CSU, Fresno ($245,000) CSU Fresno was awarded $245,000 to increase the number of graduates in Food and Agricultural Sciences by 10-20% and meet the growing research and development demands of the Valley’s agriculture and food processing industries. The funding will allow CSU Fresno to acquire advanced scientific equipment, increase the program’s infrastructure and research capabilities, and enhance recruiting efforts. The expansion will play a role in helping our Valley’s agriculture and food processing industries continue to sustain growth and remain competitive in a global market. CSU, Fresno ($290,000) CSU, Fresno was awarded $290,000 to develop an Agricultural Education Orientation program that will recruit and enroll students from across the region. The program aims to enroll 20 students each year who will be exposed to career opportunities in the agricultural education field. One qualified, underrepresented student who completes the program and is majoring in Agricultural Education at CSU, Fresno will receive full financial assistance covering their educational expenses for two academic years allowing them to focus on their education and career success, which would not be possible without such support. West Hills College, Coalinga ($248,000) West Hills College, Coalinga was awarded $248,000 to address the shortage of students entering careers in irrigation and natural resources. The funds will go towards creating two new academic programs in Irrigation Technology and Natural Resource Management to build upon their existing Agricultural Engineering Technology program. Along with developing new curriculum, the funding will allow West Hills to purchase new equipment and classroom technology. The College will also use the funds to boost enrollment by increasing recruiting across the Valley and in underserved communities with high populations of Hispanics.
12.17.2010	Recovery Act-funded expansion will improve health care services for area residents Fresno, CA – Congressman Jim Costa joined with Valley health care providers and patients today to break ground on an expansion to the United Health Centers (UHC) of San Joaquin Valley facility in Parlier. The expansion was made available through a $1.5 million Recovery Act grant to construct a 20,800 square foot administration building. The new building will house all administration departments under one roof, allowing the facility to operate more efficiently and better serve Valley patients. “Securing funding for our local health centers is vital to improving access to quality care for Valley families, especially in our rural areas,” sad Costa. “This new facility will increase the center’s efficiency and strengthen the services available to residents. United Health Centers plays a critical role in delivering health care to Valley residents and I am pleased that this expansion will allow them to advance their mission.” “The project is made possible through a $1.5 million grant from the American Reinvestment and Recovery Act (ARRA), which provided the seed money to make the $4.5 million project a reality,”“This completed campus will be a model for all Community Health Centers for the Central Valley and the State of California. Our patients will be proud to call United Health Centers their health care home.” said Colleen Curtis, CEO of UHC. Costa has been an active supporter of UHC and their efforts to provide comprehensive medical, dental and community health services to Valley residents. Along with the $1.5 million grant that made today’s expansion possible, Costa announced $695,438 in Recovery Act funding in March of 2009 for UHC in Parlier. The funding announced in March allowed UHC to hire new health care providers and staff to provide medical care to low income and underserved populations in the area. This included 1.5 FTE medical providers, 3 FTE medical assistants, 2 front office staff and .5 FTE billing staff. The additional staff allowed UHC in Parlier to see more patients and decrease wait times for appointments.
12.16.2010	“We can’t move our economy forward, unless members of both parties leave the campaign politics behind.” WASHINGTON – With Congressman Jim Costa’s vote, the House of Representatives passed the President’s bipartisan compromise to extend tax cuts benefiting Valley families and businesses. The legislation now moves to the President’s desk where it will be signed into law. Costa, who had pushed both political parties to support the plan, released the following statement in response: “After months of partisan bickering, I am pleased that Congress has extended these important tax cuts. A failure to act would have left countless Valley families and businesses out in the cold. “Looking ahead, the American people want to see two things. First, they want to see an end to the election year tactics of both parties. With too many politicians focused more on trading jabs than doing the work of the people, the tax cut debate showed Washington at its worst. Enough is enough. We can’t move our economy forward unless members of both parties leave the campaign politics behind. “Americans also want Congress to get serious about putting our fiscal house back in order. From discretionary spending caps to performance based budgeting, my colleagues in the Blue Dog Coalition and I continue to bring solutions to the table. Many of our proposals were included in the Deficit Commission’s report. Congress must take the Commission’s recommendations seriously and work together on this issue.” Background While some Members of Congress vowed to oppose the tax cut deal on political grounds, Costa repeatedly called on both Republicans and Democrats to set aside partisan talking points to send a deal to the President’s desk. If Congress had failed to act, Americans would have seen their taxes go up on January 1st. For months, Costa pushed for a compromise similar to the one passed by Congress today. In September, Costa joined a group of his colleagues in calling on the House leadership to temporarily extend all income tax rates.
12.15.2010	WASHINGTON – “The state and federal agencies must get this plan right so our Valley receives its fair share of water.” This was Congressman Jim Costa’s response to a report released today by the Administration providing an update on the state and federal agencies’ work to address California’s long-term water challenges. The federal update, which can be viewed here, focuses specifically on the work to complete the Bay Delta Conservation Plan (BDCP) – a plan with the dual goals of improving water deliveries to the Central Valley and southern part of the state as well as restoring the health of the Bay Delta. Congressman Costa’s full statement is below: “California’s crumbling infrastructure and flawed policies have cost our Valley water and jobs. While we’ve been able to scrape by on our annual water battles, the future of our region’s economy depends on long-term solutions. With stakes so high, the state and federal agencies must get this plan right so our Valley receives its fair share of water. “Putting together a plan that works for all of California will not be easy, but we cannot afford to do nothing. To make real progress on this issue, the Administration must work with all of the local, state, and federal agencies involved. The Administration must also recognize the importance of sound science and the many factors degrading the health of the Delta. “Moving forward, it’s important that the stakeholders believe that this plan is more than just an endless series of studies. Our state’s long-term water supply relies on implementing real solutions. I will continue to follow this process closely and work with all of the parties involved.”
12.15.2010	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Jim Costa took to the floor of the House of Representatives to again call on Congress to extend tax cuts for Valley families, farmers, and businesses. In the speech, Costa called out members of both political parties for caring more about campaign politics than preventing people’s taxes from going up. To view Costa’s speech, click here. The prepared text of Costa’s speech is copied below: “Madame Speaker, I rise today in support of extending tax cuts to American families and businesses. “This week, we have a choice. Congress can continue the campaign politics of the past year or Republicans and Democrats can set aside their talking points and get something done for the people we are here to serve. “I support the latter. In my district, families are putting together their budgets and trying to make ends meet. Small businesses are making hiring decisions. Family farmers are scared of losing their operations due to a looming bump in the estate tax. “In this fragile economic recovery, we cannot afford to let that happen. After months of partisan gridlock, it’s time for members of this Chamber to listen to the American people and prevent taxes from going up on January 1st. “Delay is not an option and I call on Congress to send the commonsense compromise before us to the President’s desk.” Background Over the past weeks, Congressman Jim Costa has been in the middle of the national debate over whether to pass the President’s compromise to extend tax cuts for American families and businesses. While some Members of Congress have vowed to oppose the deal on political grounds, Costa has repeatedly called on both Republicans and Democrats to set aside partisan talking points to send a deal to the President’s desk. If Congress fails to come together and address this issue, Americans will see their taxes go up on January 1st. For months, Costa has been pushing for a compromise similar to the one currently being considered. In September, Costa joined a group of his colleagues in calling on the House leadership to temporarily extend all income tax rates.
12.10.2010	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Jim Costa issued a statement in support of the President’s bipartisan tax compromise and called out members of both political parties for standing in the way of extending tax cuts to Valley families and workers. “Despite the bipartisan compromise laid out by the President, some lawmakers are more interested in extending the last election than the tax cuts for American families and workers. The campaign is over and that goes for members of both parties. “The people of the Valley simply cannot afford more delay. Families are putting together their budgets and trying to make ends meet. Small businesses are debating hiring and financial decisions. Family farmers are concerned about dramatic changes to the estate tax. The only folks who don’t seem to be worried are the few Members of Congress who think it’s okay to play the same political games while people continue to search for work and the economy tries to recover. “I called on Congress to pass a similar compromise in September and now it’s time to act. This deal isn’t perfect and of course there are improvements I would like to see. But that’s reality and that’s how life works. You have to compromise to get things done. “As Congress continues to debate this issue, I call on my colleagues to support this commonsense plan. The people of my district need these tax cuts and we need the certainty to get our economy going again.” ###
12.08.2010	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jim Costa praised the passage of the DREAM Act tonight in the U.S. House of Representatives. Costa voted in favor of the legislation. “I am pleased that the House has approved the DREAM Act,” said Costa. “Children who were brought to this country through no fault of their own should have the opportunity to contribute to our country’s well-being by serving in the U.S. Armed Forces or pursuing higher education.” Costa, who earlier in the year called on House leadership to include AgJOBS legislation as part of an intermediate immigration reform solution, also highlighted the importance of both parties working together on comprehensive immigration reform. “Our immigration system is broken and it will take both political parties to fix it,” said Costa. “This includes moving quickly to pass AgJOBS legislation. AgJOBS is critical to our Valley’s economy and farm communities across America. It’s my regret that it was not a part of today’s vote. I remain hopeful that the new Republican majority will take up this issue when the next Congress begins.”
12.06.2010	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jim Costa today announced that Ms. Adriana Threlkeld of Fresno will serve as the Valley’s Congressional Page for the spring session of the 112th Congress. Adriana is the daughter of Ms. Enedelia Bedrosian and granddaughter of Ms. Adrian Threlkeld. Currently a junior at University High School, Adriana will be working for the House of Representatives from January 24th, 2011 through May 27th, 2011. "The House Page Program is a great way for young men and women to learn how their government works," said Costa. "Pages do everything from monitoring votes for Members and preparing Congress for daily business, to running messages between the House and Senate Chambers. I am excited that a talented Valley student like Adriana will get to experience this unique opportunity.” Pages are sixteen year old high school students hired to serve as support staff for the U.S. House of Representatives. All Pages must be sponsored by a Member of Congress, and meet a variety of requirements. Earlier this year, Costa encouraged students from across the Valley to apply. In 2008, Costa hosted Elizabeth Monsma from Shafter High School. During the academic year, Pages are required to attend Page school in addition to their Congressional responsibilities. They live in a supervised Page Residence Hall and receive a monthly stipend. For more information about the House Page Program, please visit https://pageprogram.house.gov/factsheet.pdf.
12.02.2010	“Just as the interstate highway is longer than its first stretch of road, California’s high-speed rail system will be greater than this initial segment.” WASHINGTON – Congressman Jim Costa released the following statement today after the California High-Speed Rail Authority’s Board of Directors approved the starting point for the state’s high-speed rail project in the Central Valley. “The Board’s approval sets the stage for our Valley to kick-off construction on our nation’s first true high-speed rail system. Our region will benefit from the jobs the project will create and the Valley will serve as the heart of what will be an 800 mile system connecting Los Angeles and the Bay Area. “Today’s procedural decision is only the starting point. The Authority must look for ways to lower costs and extend the line as soon as possible. We must also remain focused on the projects ultimate goal: building a statewide system. Just as the interstate highway is longer than its first stretch of road, California’s high-speed rail system will be greater than this initial segment. “As the people of California know, building the state’s high-speed rail project is a long-term process. The system will be built in phases and improvements will be made along the way. The Authority must work closely at the local, state and federal level, as well as with groups like agriculture to mitigate impacts of construction along the route. There is much more work to do and I look forward to moving this project forward.”
11.19.2010	WASHINGTON – Congressman Jim Costa made a play for additional high-speed rail funds today, asking the Obama Administration to redirect unused federal high-speed rail funding to California. Costa’s request follows news that some incoming governors, including in Ohio and Wisconsin, have rejected federal funding for their state’s high-speed rail projects. “Several states have recently announced their intention to cancel their high speed rail plans,” said Costa. “These unused funds should go to California’s project which will create jobs, improve air quality, and spur economic growth. Our state’s high-speed rail project is a reality and additional federal investment will bring us closer to breaking ground.” In sending the letter, Costa was joined by fellow Co-Chairs of the California High-Speed Rail Caucus and other members of the California delegation. The California High Speed Rail Authority has $4.3 billion to construct the first portion of the high-speed rail system which will be located between Merced and Bakersfield. These dollars are made up of federal grants, including the $715 million for the Central Valley segment Costa announced in late October, and funds from the state bond which Costa originally authored.
10.27.2010	Ammonia discharges degrade the Delta and cost the Valley water and jobs Fresno, CA – Today, Congressman Jim Costa blasted Sacramento sanitation officials, stating that their disregard for the facts and inaction to remove ammonia from treated sewage being dumped into the Delta is costing the Valley jobs and a fair share of water. Costa’s latest call for northern officials to get serious about cleaning up the Delta follows the release of a sanitation district-funded study that investigates the cost to the Sacramento region of reducing ammonia discharges into the water system (for more on the study, click here). “It’s unacceptable that big polluters to our North continue to treat the facts like toilet paper while they flush ammonia into the Delta,” said Costa. “The feet dragging by Sacramento sanitation officials shows just how broken our water policy is. It’s ridiculous that pollution upstream can go unchecked while critics of our Valley try to cut off our water and scapegoat our region for the problems in the Delta. It’s time for sanitation officials to get moving and start playing a role in California’s water crisis.” Reducing ammonia discharges is critical to addressing the major issues degrading the environmental health of the Delta. To date, regulatory agencies have focused almost solely on water exports to the Valley while overlooking other factors contributing to the decline of the Delta. This single-minded approach has restricted the Valley’s water, devastating communities and the local economy. “Misguided policies have cost the Valley dearly in terms of jobs and economic opportunity. They have devastated our farmers, farm workers, and working families. The people of our Valley will not yield any more ground and will not accept further inaction by other parts of the state. We have pushed back against the flawed regulations and our critics to secure more water this year. We will continue to do whatever it takes to protect our way of life as we work with everyone in California to address our water challenges.” Two recent studies point to Sacramento's wastewater as a significant cause behind the declining fish populations in the Delta. One study, authored by Patricia Glibert of the University of Maryland, concludes that the Delta's environmental problems are more likely tied to wastewater pollution than to water diversions, indicating that increased ammonia in Sacramento wastewater has disrupted algae production in the Delta, which rippled up the food chain to compromise fish species. Another study by Inge Werner, a toxicologist at UC Davis, concluded that threatened Delta smelt may be harmed by exposure to ammonia at levels below federal limits and that long-term exposure could reduce smelt growth and feeding activity, which would ultimately affect their breeding success. Earlier this year, Costa wrote to the State Water Resources Control Board and the Central Valley Regional Water Quality Control Board to take immediate action to address ammonia discharges being dumped into the Delta. To read this letter, click here.
10.25.2010	Valley will kick off construction of nation’s first high-speed rail system Fresno, CA – After pressing the White House for funding and advocating on behalf of the Valley, Congressman Jim Costa, joined by Fresno Mayor Ashley Swearengin, today announced $715 million in federal funds for Valley high-speed rail. The funding, made available through the Federal Railroad Administration’s (FRA) High-Speed Intercity Passenger Rail Program, will go towards beginning construction on the state’s high-speed rail system between Merced and Bakersfield. In what will be a major boost to the Central Valley’s economy, the high-speed rail system is expected to generate more than 135,000 full-time one-year job equivalents over the course of its construction. Rep. Costa highlighted the impact high-speed rail will have on the Valley’s economy and the years of work put in to get to this point. Costa was the original author of the high-speed rail bond that passed in California in November, 2008. The bond measure allocated $9.95 billion towards the state’s high-speed rail project. “High-speed rail means more jobs and economic opportunity for the Valley,” said Costa. “That’s why I authored the original bond measure and fought for these funds. Our years of hard work have paid off and the Valley will kick-off construction of our nation’s first high-speed rail system. I applaud the commitment of Secretary Ray LaHood and the Administration to make this project a reality.” Fresno Mayor Ashley Swearengin called the announcement an “incredible development” and emphasized the growing momentum for the project. "This is an incredible development, both for California's high-speed train initiative and for Fresno and the San Joaquin Valley,”“I commend Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood and Administrator Joe Szabo of the Federal Railroad Administration for their commitment to high-speed rail. We look forward to working with the California High Speed Rail Authority to move this project forward.” Mayor Swearengin said. In FY2010, Congress appropriated $2.5 billion for high-speed rail and intercity passenger rail. Through the work of Rep. Costa, Rep. Cardoza, and Mayor Swearengin, FRA announced $715 million of these funds to begin construction of the state’s high-speed rail system in the Central Valley. Matching funds will be provided through the state bond which Costa originally authored. FRA will work with the state to determine whether to first begin construction on the Merced to Fresno segment or the Fresno to Bakersfield segment. Earlier this year, California’s high-speed train project was the nation’s largest recipient of federal stimulus funding, $2.25 billion from the $8 billion available within the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.
10.25.2010	Without funds secured by Costa, new health center would not have been completed FRESNO – Today, Congressman Jim Costa joined with local health care providers and patients to open a new dental center in Fresno. The “Elm Dental Center” was made possible through the over $4 million in Recovery Act funding that Costa secured for Clinica Sierra Vista (CSV) to expand health care services and facilities in the Valley. If it weren’t for the work of Costa and CSV, one of the nation’s largest community-based health center organizations, the Elm Dental Center would never have become a reality. With the design, plans, and 78% of the construction completed, the health organization initially leading the project declared bankruptcy. Recognizing that not finishing the project would limit patient access to oral health services, CSV stepped in and Costa secured the funding to bring the dental center across the finish line. At today’s ribbon cutting ceremony, Costa reflected on the work required to complete the project and how important the new dental center will be to providing health care to the people of the Valley. “I fought for these funds because leaving this dental center unfinished and abandoned was not an option,” said Costa. “When the future of this facility hung in the balance, I knew that we had to push forward. The people of our Valley deserve top quality medical facilities and health care. The Elm Dental Center delivers on these goals. I commend the work of Clinica Sierra Vista and its continued commitment to improving health care for families across our region.” CSV CEO Steve Schilling highlighted the impact the new center will have on expanding access to oral health services for the greater Fresno area, especially the underserved in the Southwest portion of the city. “We are excited about this opportunity that was made possible through stimulus funding and the important support of Rep. Jim Costa,” said Schilling. “We will now be able to deliver essential oral health services to the terribly underserved and underinsured populations of southwest urban Fresno. This project has been a long time in the making, begun by our predecessor four years ago. With a lot of help and community support, we are finally able to bring this important asset into play for the greater Fresno community and our patients. I couldn’t be happier about the addition of this important community resource for our neighborhoods.” The Elm Dental Center was constructed at a cost of approximately $2.6 million. The project was completed by using part of the $4,008,251 in Recovery Act funding that Costa helped secure for CSV to improve and construct new health care facilities throughout the Valley. The 7,756 sq. ft. facility contains nine updated dental operatories, a state-of-the-art electronic dental record system, modern dental diagnostic x-ray equipment, and a large community classroom and training area. It will accommodate two dentists, one hygienist, and additional support staff.
10.22.2010	USDA & Recovery Act funding invests in Valley’s rural infrastructure FRESNO – Congressman Jim Costa today delivered $244,000 in federal funding for the City of San Joaquin to invest in local jobs and strengthen the city’s infrastructure. Costa also broke ground on an expansion of the city’s Public Works building which was made possible through today’s announcement. At the event, Costa was joined by City of San Joaquin Mayor Amarpreet Dhaliwal and USDA’s Rural Housing Service Administrator Tammye Trevino who traveled here from Washington D.C. “Our smaller cities and rural areas are a critical part of our Valley’s economy,” said Costa. “That’s why I fought for these funds and why I will continue to work to see that our region receives our fair share of tax dollars. These projects will improve the City of San Joaquin’s infrastructure and strengthen the local community.” The funding is broken down into three projects and was allocated through the USDA Rural Development’s Community Facilities grant program. These grants are geared to assisting in the development of essential community facilities in rural areas and towns. In particular, the $162,690 Community Facilities grant to expand the city’s Public Works building was funded through the Recovery Act. USDA’s Rural Housing Service Administrator Tammye Trevino highlighted the importance of investing in rural infrastructure and the role the Recovery Act played in making today’s announcement possible: "One of the projects announced today is being funded through the Recovery Act, which will not only improve the safety conditions of city employees but also create construction jobs in this rural community.” The three projects are: · $162,690 to expand the Public Works building to provide more office space and adequate restrooms with showers for emergencies/safety. The project will also include remodeling the shop section of the building to install a generator and auto lift. An auto lift will allow mechanics to better work on city vehicles. · $52,500 will go to new equipment for the Public Works Department including an animal control vehicle and a skid steer loader. Updated equipment will allow animal control officers to increase their pick-up efficiency, saving the city time and money. · $29,700 will go to a new roof for the Veterans Memorial Hall. The roof is leaking and causing damage to the newly remodeled building. The new roof will protect the building and extend its useful life, providing space for community gatherings in the city.
10.14.2010	Costa’s work to secure funding made the Intertie project possible The Intertie will bring more water to the Valley, increase water reliability Fresno, CA – Congressman Jim Costa’s fight for the Valley’s economy took another step forward today at a groundbreaking for a major Valley water project that he fought to fund. The Intertie pipeline and pumping station will link the Delta Mendota Canal to the California Aqueduct. Once completed, the project will increase the flow of water to Valley communities and improve the reliability of water supplies. The Intertie will be fully operational in 2012. Costa’s work to secure earmarks and Recovery Act funding made the Intertie project possible. In the FY 2010 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill, Costa passed an amendment to provide $10 million dollars for Valley water projects. $4.1 million of these funds were allocated to the Intertie. In July, Costa helped secure and announce $14.6 million in Recovery Act funding to begin construction of the project. Costa highlighted the importance of the Intertie to the Valley economy and his work to bring the project to fruition by securing federal funding through earmarks and the Recovery Act. “I fought for this project because more water equals more Valley jobs,” said Costa. “The Intertie will deliver more water to our region and help strengthen our economy. This project was stalled for years, but we used all of the tools at our disposal to make it a reality. This includes the earmarks and stimulus funding we secured to bring the Intertie online.” While Costa called the groundbreaking a victory for the Valley, he also stated that the Valley’s fight for water was far from over. “The Intertie is a win for our Valley’s economy, but it is only one more step towards securing our fair share of water,” said Costa. “This year we increased our water allocations and pressed the Administration to begin revising the flawed regulations limiting our water. We must continue to hold the federal government’s feet to the fire so we can further increase the amount of water flowing to our region.” Also participating in today’s groundbreaking in Tracy, CA are Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar, Senator Dianne Feinstein, Rep. Dennis Cardoza, and other lawmakers and water officials.
10.08.2010	Recovery Act funded project will create 100 jobs and improve health care for local families Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa’s fight to construct a new outpatient center at Corcoran District Hospital has taken a major step forward. Today, Costa announced $12 million for Corcoran hospital to construct a 17,000-square foot outpatient center. The loan, made available through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (Recovery Act), will allow the hospital to provide ambulatory surgery and imaging services to the 14,000 residents across the Kings County community. Construction of the new center will create 100 jobs for the region. “This project has been years in the making and I am proud that our efforts have paid off,” said Costa. “Construction of the new center will create jobs and improve access to health care for Kings County families. This funding is a major win for the Kings County community and I will continue to work to ensure that our Valley receives the investments we need to grow and move forward.” The Corcoran District Hospital is an acute care hospital located in the southern portion of Kings County. Costa has been working with Corcoran District Hospital throughout his time in Congress to expand health care access and services to the people of Kings County. CEO of Corcoran Hospital John Brenn highlighted the importance of this project and expressed his appreciation for the work of Rep. Costa. "The City of Corcoran and its hospital were thrilled to receive the news that the USDA has approved its application for a Rural Development loan of $12 million to enable it to complete the first phase of its replacement hospital project,” said Brenn. “This phase will create 100 construction jobs in a region that is experiencing 16% unemployment right now, and the completed health care facility will improve access to high quality services in a county that is largely indigent and rural. We are grateful to Congressman Costa for his efforts and influence to make this a reality in Corcoran." The Recovery Act funding for the replacement hospital project announced today was made available through the USDA Rural Development Community Facilities program which focuses on strengthening and investing in rural communities.
10.08.2010	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Jim Costa today announced that he is accepting applications for the House of Representatives Congressional Page Program for the spring, 2011. The program allows high school students interested in government to gain exposure and participate in the political process. The spring session will run from January 23, 2011 through May 27, 2011. The application deadline is November 15, 2010. "This is a terrific opportunity for Valley students who have a passion for government and public service,” said Costa. “The page program provides students a unique experience that they can apply towards college and their career. Our office is excited to bring a student from our Valley to Washington, and I encourage all of those who are qualified to apply.” Pages have served the U.S. House of Representatives for over two hundred years. Page duties include assisting Members with their legislative duties, delivering correspondence and small packages within the congressional complex, answering phones in the Member Cloakrooms, and preparing the House Floor for sessions. House Pages live, work, and study in Washington and are compensated with a salary. They split their time between studies at the fully accredited Page School in the Library of Congress and their page duties within the House. Accommodations are provided at the House Page Residence Hall just a few blocks from the Capitol and the Library of Congress. Students interested in applying should contact Congressman Costa's Washington, D.C. office at (202) 225-3341 to receive an application. What are the basic eligibility requirements? · Age: Must be 16 years old, by the date beginning the page term · Citizenship: Must be a U.S. citizen · Academics: Must have a 3.0 GPA or above
10.07.2010	As we work our way out of the recession, we must make sure our rural areas are not left behind Fresno, CA – Congressman Jim Costa today announced $77,000 in federal funding to repair homes in the rural areas of Fresno, Kings, Madera, Merced, and Tulare counties. The funding, made available through the USDA Housing Preservation Grant program, was awarded to Self-Help Enterprises, a nonprofit housing and community development organization serving the Valley. The funds encourage economic development across rural areas by improving the local housing supply and making home repairs such as wiring, heating, roofing and plumbing. “As we work our way out of the recession, we must make sure our rural areas are not left behind,” said Costa. “These funds will spur economic development in our smaller towns by strengthening the housing market and quality of life for residents. I am pleased to see additional federal funds return to our local communities and I will continue to support these efforts.” President and CEO of Self-Help Enterprises, Peter Carey, said that the funding will not only improve housing, but also create jobs in the construction field: “Not only will these funds improve housing in rural communities, but they will provide jobs in the hard-hit construction industry.” The repairs and home improvements are financed through a combination of loans and grants. In partnership with USDA Rural Development and local communities, Self-Help Enterprises has repaired or rehabilitated nearly 6,000 homes across the Valley.
10.06.2010	Rep. Costa Announces Retroactive Pay Deadline For Valley Soldiers Affected By Stop Loss Fresno, CA - Congressman Jim Costa today announced that Valley service members whose service was extended under stop loss orders in Iraq and Afghanistan have until December 3rd, 2010 to apply for retroactive pay. Troops eligible for retroactive pay will receive $500 a month for each month their service was extended. The Defense Department estimates that while 145,400 troops are eligible, only 58,000 claims have been paid out so far. “Our brave men and women have made tremendous sacrifices for our country,” said Costa “In 2009, we passed legislation to compensate our service members for tours that were involuntarily extended in Iraq and Afghanistan. With the deadline fast approaching, I urge all eligible troops to submit their claims so that they can receive the retroactive pay they earned through their service. Working with our local veterans organizations, I want to make sure that all eligible service members here in our Valley get the benefits they deserve.” Costa fought for these benefits in 2009 by helping to pass HR 2346, the War Supplemental Appropriations Act which established retroactive stop loss special pay. This allows troops whose service was involuntarily extended between September 11, 2001 and September 30, 2009 to file claims in order to receive retroactive pay if eligible. The deadline for submissions is December 3rd, 2010. The average benefit is $3,800. For more information or to submit a claim please visit www.defense.gov/stoploss. Valley service members are also encouraged to contact Costa’s Fresno office at (559) 495-1620.
10.04.2010	Recovery Act funds fill officer vacancies, prevent department layoffs caused by local budget cuts Bakersfield, CA – Congressman Jim Costa today announced over $7,384,635 for the Kern County Sheriff’s Department to retain officers or hire new recruits to fill open positions. The grant, made available through the Recovery Act, was released through the US Department of Justice COPS Hiring Recovery Program (CHRP) and will fund 27 full-time local officer positions. "These funds will prevent hardworking police officers from losing their jobs due to local budget cuts,” said Costa. “As we work our way out of this recession, we must ensure that local police departments have the tools they need to keep our streets and neighborhoods safe. I am pleased to see more resources invest in our communities, and I will continue to support these efforts.” Kern County Sheriff Donny Youngblood said the funding will help replace some of the 40 deputies put out of work due to last year’s budget process: “A void was created in the budget process a year ago. This funding will help fill those holes.” CHRP grants will provide 100 percent funding for approved entry-level salaries and benefits for three years for newly-hired, full-time sworn officer positions (including filling existing unfunded vacancies) or for rehired officers who have been laid off, or are scheduled to be laid off on a future date, as a result of local budget cuts. Police departments receiving the grants will then be required to retain the grant funded positions for a fourth year. The funding provides much needed support to state and local government budgets, and will help the nation’s law enforcement agencies add and retain the manpower needed to fight crime more effectively through community policing.
10.01.2010	Costa: My message from this April still stands. If Miller thinks he can destroy the entire Valley way of life to suit his own ends, he’ll get the fight of a lifetime. Washington, D.C. – In April, Congressman Jim Costa took on Bay Area Democratic Congressman George Miller (D-Richmond) following his promise to push for tougher restrictions on water deliveries to farms and cities in the San Joaquin Valley (link here). Costa said at the time that if Miller wants a war over water allocations, then Costa and California’s 20th Congressional District would give him one (link here). Costa and the Valley responded by fighting to increase federal water allocations to communities south of the Delta. But the war over Valley water is still on. Most recently, Miller and a group of outside politicians sent a letter to Jean Sagouspe, President of Westlands Water District in West Fresno, harassing the water district over how they use their water. The letter specifically addresses Westlands’ water supply and a water exchange taking place with Metropolitan Water District of Southern California. Today, Costa responded to Miller and the other lawmakers in a letter and issued the following statement: “Miller and his allies are dead wrong to create the impression that extra water was delivered to Westlands in 2010. No region’s water supply in California has been more impacted by the water crisis than here in the San Joaquin Valley. That is a fact. “Thanks to our efforts, we secured a lot more water this year than what the federal government originally intended to give us. While we still need more, we handed Miller a defeat and he just can’t stand to see more water flowing to the Valley. Now he is harassing one of our water districts because he doesn’t like their attempts to maximize what water they have. “Water exchanges are an important part of planning for coming water years and delivering water to communities in times of need. They are also an important tool for Valley communities to use in the face of the flawed federal water regulations that we are fighting and Miller supports. “My position has not changed one bit. If Miller and his allies think they can get away with attacking Valley farmers and farmworkers whose livelihoods depend on water, he is wrong. “If he wants to pick a fight with an entire Valley population whose economy hinges on a fair share of water, we’ll give him one. “We won a partial victory this year and Congressman Miller clearly doesn’t like it. His letter to Westlands is another reminder of how serious and long-term this battle is and how hard we have to keep working. “But my message from this April still stands. If Miller thinks he can destroy the entire Valley way of life to suit his own ends, he’ll get the fight of a lifetime.” Text of Rep. Costa’s letter is copied below. ### October 1, 2010 The Honorable Grace Napolitano The Honorable John Garamendi 1610 Longworth House Office Building 2459 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Mike Thompson The Honorable George Miller 231 Cannon Office Building 2205 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Colleagues: This letter is in response to your recent correspondence with my constituent, Jean Sagouspe of Westlands Water District (Westlands), requesting information regarding the agency’s water supply. While I am certain that Mr. Sagouspe will appreciate the opportunity to address the specific questions in your letter in detail, I would be remiss in my role as a representative of the San Joaquin Valley if I did not share my own thoughts with you on this critical issue. You are wrong to create the impression that extra water was delivered to Westlands in 2010. The reality is that in recent years insufficient water has been provided to one of the most productive agricultural regions in the world due to the regulatory imposed drought and below average rainfall. No region’s water supply in California has been more impacted by the water crisis than here in the San Joaquin Valley. This is a fact. Water is the lifeblood of the Valley. Without an adequate water supply, farmers, farm workers, and entire communities across my District have endured significant hardships trying to sustain jobs and provide for their families. While we have worked to increase our share of water flowing to the region this past year, the devastating impact on the Valley’s economy and quality of life due to a lack of water is real and still persists. More work must be done and California must get serious and work together to provide meaningful solutions to our water supply challenges. Your letter makes reference to an innovative water exchange that I and other members of the Valley delegation helped to facilitate between Metropolitan Water District (Metropolitan) and Westlands. Above all else, the work of these two agencies to find creative solutions to ongoing problems that have been made worse by federal regulatory requirements is something that should be commended. The exchange will benefit cities and farms alike by making water available to 25 million people in Southern California where it is needed and also return those supplies back to the San Joaquin Valley at a time when they are needed. Even with these noteworthy efforts, the underlying problem remains: federal regulatory restrictions have crippled the operational flexibility of California’s water system. This lack of flexibility has placed a greater value on water storage, which is what a water exchange between two water agencies is all about – finding a place to store water until it is needed. The exchange between Metropolitan and Westlands is effective because it produces dual benefits, first for Southern California and then for the San Joaquin Valley. However, interim solutions like these may not always be available to us. As you know, I have been pushing the Administration and working with the federal, state, and local water agencies to revise and change the regulations that have negatively impacted the Valley, and will continue to do so. But, if we intend to work towards solving California’s water problems in future water years, we will need to work together to find more flexibility and storage throughout the system and need your support. Now more than ever, California’s water crisis has placed a premium on everyone working together rather than splitting into factions for those below the Delta and those above it. Each of us relies on the Delta as the lynchpin of our plumbing system and each of us has a part to play in the solution. To illustrate that point, Congresswoman Napolitano, your constituents are totally dependent upon both the quality and quantity of water that we are able to deliver though the Delta. Congressman Miller, your constituents are at risk from the pathogens that the Sacramento Regional County Sanitation District is releasing into the Delta. Congressman Garamendi, your constituents are counting on the repairs to the Delta that only the Bay Delta Conservation Plan (BDCP) can deliver. And, Congressman Thompson, your constituents and the rest of Northern California would face massive cutbacks in water used above the Delta that some environmentalists are now calling for in the wake of the State Water Resources Control Board’s draft flow criteria report. It is high time that we put regional politics of the past aside and address our state’s long-term water needs. Every region of California deserves a water supply they can count on, and if we cannot start from there, we are doomed to failure. Our water system is clearly broken; and arguing over who broke it rather than working on solutions such as BDCP and the coequal goals of the Delta Vision is not beneficial to any of the constituencies we serve. Sincerely, JIM COSTA Member of Congress
09.17.2010	Costa fought to secure funding for Valley specialty crops in 2008 Farm Bill Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa today announced $17,281,158 in federal funding to benefit Valley specialty crop growers. The funding, made available through the Farm Bill’s Specialty Crop Block Grant Program, was awarded to 64 projects across California. The Valley is a leading producer of specialty crops which include tree nuts, fruits, dried fruits, and vegetables. “We fought hard to secure funding for specialty crops in the last Farm Bill and I am pleased that Valley farmers will receive this support,” said Costa. “Our Valley is a leading producer of specialty crops and these grants are critical to growing our economy.” Congressman Costa, along with other Valley leaders like Rep. Dennis Cardoza, was instrumental in securing support for specialty crops in the 2008 Farm Bill. Through their support, the Food, Conservation and Energy Act of 2008 allocated $1.7 billion for specialty crops. Before the 2008 Farm Bill, the Valley did not receive its fair share of federal funds as the majority of funding was reserved for commodity crops like corn and soybeans. Since passage of the last Farm Bill, Costa has been working to position the Valley for success in the upcoming 2012 Farm Bill. In May, Costa hosted a hearing for the upcoming Farm Bill in Fresno so Washington lawmakers could hear first-hand the importance of supporting Valley agriculture. “The 2008 Farm Bill was a win for Valley agriculture and we must build on our success in 2012,” said Costa. “The hearing we had in Fresno took our Valley’s message straight to Washington. I will continue to fight so our farmers and entire economy see a fair return on our tax dollars.” The block grants will benefit crop growers and consumers as well. Projects include improving efficiency and reducing costs of distribution systems; investing in specialty crop research; developing new and improved seed varieties and specialty crops; pest and disease control; increasing the marketability of specialty crop farmers, including Native American and disadvantaged farmers; and improving food access in underserved communities. A full list of the 64 projects that will be funded can be viewed at the USDA’s website here. Examples of projects funded are below: Partner with the California Agricultural Export Council and other interested members, which represent California specialty crop products such as almonds, pistachios, prunes, raisins, walnuts, and wine to implement a specialty crop promotional campaign in Europe Partner with the University of California‘s Center for Produce Safety to investigate the environmental factors that trigger survival mechanisms in outbreak-related strains of Salmonella and to elucidate those mechanisms related to desiccation tolerance and environmental persistence, which will help the produce industry interpret Salmonella-positive test results and assist in the decision-making process related to pre- and post-harvest risks of contamination Partner with the Almond Board to conduct a state-wide survey of almond production practices that will assist in the development of a comprehensive carbon literature review, modeling of soil carbon and nitrogen dynamics, and the development of a comparison between total carbon impacts of applied pruning compared with burning Partner with the California State Beekeepers Association, Inc. to encourage land owners and land managers to produce food resources for pollinators, specifically forage crops for honey bees pollinating CA specialty crops Partner with the Valley Fig Growers to enhance the competitiveness of California fig growers by contracting with a food product development firm that will assist in the development of new value-added uses for fig paste
09.15.2010	New UC Merced – UC Davis program will start bringing medical students to train in the Valley Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressmen Jim Costa and Dennis Cardoza announced a major step forward in their fight to establish a new medical school in the San Joaquin Valley. Costa joined with Cardoza and the Valley Coalition for UC Merced Medical School to unveil a new partnership between UC Merced and UC Davis to begin accepting students for the Fall of 2011. The UC Davis-UC Merced San Joaquin Valley PRIME program will start with six medical students who will receive the first two years of medical education at UC Davis then receive their clinical training at approved facilities in the Valley. “Our hard work is paying off and a new medical school in the heart of our Valley is on its way,” said Costa. “Our region needs more doctors and this medical school is critical to providing the health care Valley families need. Momentum continues to build and I am ready for medical students to start training in our communities. I am proud to fight for this project alongside leaders like Congressman Cardoza and the entire Coalition, and I look forward to building on the progress we have made.” Congressmen Costa and Cardoza have led the effort to bring a medical school to UC Merced and address the physician shortage in the San Joaquin Valley. In July, the two Representatives and the Coalition announced the report “Vision for the Valley.” The Coalition, a San Joaquin Valley wide organization comprised of over 1,000 community leaders, elected officials, physicians and others, published the 56-page report as a way to raise greater community awareness of the need for a medical school in the Valley and to elicit community input for its development. The report details the challenges of health care in the Valley, noting that the Valley has 51% fewer primary care physicians and 31% fewer specialists than the rest of the state. The Coalition highlighted the importance of this new program and expressed their appreciation for the efforts of Congressman Costa. "Today's announcement is so significant for the Valley,” said Bryn Forhan, Chair of the Coalition. “Next fall we will have the beginnings of a medical school where Valley students interested in pursuing medicine can get their education right here in the Valley. As Chair of the Valley Coalition for UC Merced Medical School, I thank Congressman Costa for his persistence and determination in getting us this far and continuing to fight on behalf of the Valley."
09.09.2010	Funds allow city and county to better address effects of abandoned and foreclosed homes Fresno, CA – Congressman Jim Costa today announced over $6 million in federal funds to help the city and county of Fresno further combat the effects of abandoned and foreclosed homes. The funds, made available through the Housing Department’s Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP), allow local governments to acquire, rehabilitate and resell homes that have been vacated or are in foreclosure. “I am pleased that the city and county have received more funding to address foreclosed homes in our communities,” said Costa. “Our Valley was one of the regions hit hardest by the housing crisis and this additional assistance is welcome news. While these funds will go a long way towards addressing properties in foreclosure, more work needs to be done to help responsible families struggling to stay in their homes. To date, the Administration’s efforts have not gone far enough to address this crisis and I will continue to push for more support for Valley families” The city of Fresno was awarded $3,547,219 and the county will receive $2,739,766. The dollar amounts were determined based on an assessment of rates of foreclosure, subprime mortgage loans and delinquencies in a particular area. This latest round of funding allocated through the NSP program was authorized by the recently-signed into law Wall Street Reform Act.
09.08.2010	Wastewater from Sacremento facilities is degrading the Delta, costing Valley water and jobs Fresno, CA – The Central Valley Regional Water Quality Control Board is the latest voice to join Congressman Jim Costa’s calls for Sacramento sanitation officials to step up their treatment of sewage being dumped into the Bay Delta. On Friday, the State Board release a draft discharge permit that would force the Sacramento area to upgrade its treatment process and clean up the wastewater pumped into the water system. Wastewater from Sacramento facilities, specifically discharges of ammonia, play a major role in degrading the health of the Delta, costing the Valley water and jobs in the process. “This news is a positive step forward in our fight for water,” said Costa. “The inaction by Sacramento sanitation officials has cost our Valley water and jobs. Their willingness to ignore the facts is a direct insult to the people of our Valley who rely on a stable supply of water to survive. With the State Board now weighing in, momentum is building to press sanitation districts to act. “Each year, our Valley has to go toe-to-toe with big polluters to our North to secure the water we need to get by. Enough is enough. These sanitation facilities have a major role to play in the water crisis and cannot keep pointing fingers at Valley families for our state’s water challenges. The days of excuses are over and it’s time for Sacramento sanitation officials to get in gear. With a growing chorus of voices on our side, our Valley is winning our fight for water and we will continue to make progress.” Costa has long called for Sacramento to clean up the Delta so more water can flow to the Valley. In June, Costa wrote to the State Board to take immediate action to address ammonia discharges in the Delta (to read this letter, click here.) Most recently, Costa slammed northern sanitation officials following the release of a report that investigates the cost to the Sacramento region of reducing ammonia discharges and other pollutants into the water system (for more on the report, click here).
09.08.2010	Recovery Act-funded project invests in regional jobs and economic opportunity while moving America towards energy independence Bakersfield, CA – Congressman Jim Costa today announced $30 million in federal dollars to directly fund over 100 high-paying, full-time Valley jobs and thousands more indirectly. The funding, made available through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, was awarded to advance Clean Energy Systems Inc.’s (CES) pioneering work to develop clean energy and improve air quality for our Valley at their Kimberlina facility north of Bakersfield. Through a series of meetings and correspondence with the Department of Energy, Costa fought to secure funding for this innovative, job-creating project in the Valley. “Securing this funding is a major victory for our region’s economy and future generations of Valley residents,” said Costa. “This project will further spur economic development in the heart of our Valley while creating high-paying jobs over the short and long-term. As we work to improve our economy, I will continue to fight so our Valley sees a fair return on the tax dollars we send to Washington. I am proud to have supported this funding and I commend the leadership of CES for helping make our region an emerging hub for innovation and energy development.” "Congressman Costa has taken a strong interest in clean technologies like ours that make sense for the Valley and California. He has been instrumental over the past several years in keeping this program moving forward," said Keith Pronske, President and CEO of Clean Energy Systems. "His hands on approach and commitment to understand the benefits of our technology will directly lead to cleaner air and more local jobs." CES are leaders in developing clean and emission-free energy technologies – a field that is critical to the Valley’s economic future as well as our nation’s access to affordable and reliable energy. The core of CES’s work uses rocket science to convert traditional fuels such as natural gas or syngas from coal, biomass, or petcoke into energy with nearly 100% carbon capture, meaning close to zero CO2 emissions. These efforts play a key role in reducing America’s dependence on foreign sources of oil and gas. The Recovery Act funding announced today will go to development, testing, and construction of turbines used to convert traditional fuels into clean energy. These turbines will be the first of their kind, making CES’s Kimberlina facility a true pioneer in the field. For more information regarding CES and their work in Kimberlina, visit their website here.
08.18.2010	$46.6 million grant will enhance internet access and quality for Valley households, schools, and businesses Fresno, CA – Congressman Jim Costa joined with Congressman Cardoza and Department of Commerce Secretary Gary Locke today to announce $46,619,757 in federal funding to enhance broadband internet quality and access for the Valley. The funding, made available through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, was awarded to the Central Valley Independent Network (CVIN) to better connect Valley residents, businesses, schools, and other institutions to high-speed internet. “Investing in our broadband infrastructure is an investment in the future of our region,” said Costa. “Improving internet access will create new education opportunities for our students and will make Valley businesses and industries more competitive. This is good news for the 49% of Valley households without high-speed internet access, Valley jobs, and our entire economy.” According to a June 2009 report by the Public Policy Institute of California, internet and broadband use has increased in all regions of California except for the Central Valley, where 49 percent of households cannot access high-speed service. Moreover, current broadband infrastructure in the region is largely inadequate to meet the needs of local businesses and community anchor institutions. In response to this situation, CVIN will use the funds to deploy a 1,371-mile fiber backbone network through 18 Central Valley counties. This will benefit the over 1,500,000 households and 160,000,000 businesses in the region by allowing local internet service providers to utilize the new network. Fresno, Kings, and Kern are among the counties that will benefit from the enhanced broadband infrastructure, as well as the CSU Fresno and Bakersfield campuses.
08.11.2010	Bakersfield, CA – Congressman Jim Costa today announced $564,251 in federal funding for Kern County schools. The funding, made available through the Education Department’s Readiness Emergency Management for Schools Program, was awarded to the Kern County Superintendent of Schools to strengthen and improve emergency response and crisis management plans. These response plans will increase school’s preparedness to address issues ranging from food safety to infectious diseases. “I am pleased that Kern schools will receive this funding to further safeguard our children’s schools,” said Costa. “Providing a safe educational environment for Valley kids is vital to ensuring that our schools can prepare students for college and beyond. Improving our schools is key to our Valley’s economic future and today’s announcement is another step in the right direction.” In reviewing and improving their plans, schools will work with community partners including, local law enforcement, public safety or emergency management, public health, and mental health agencies and local government. Response plans will include training for school staff, a plan to sustain local partnerships, and a plan for communicating policies and reunification procedures to parents.
08.08.2010	Legislation provides support to states to prevent thousands of job losses Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa returned to Washington today amidst a six-week work period in the Valley to vote in favor of legislation that is estimated to save 311,000 American jobs in education, law enforcement, public safety and health care fields. The U.S. House of Representatives resumed session to consider the bill, the Education Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act, which passed with Costa’s support by a vote of 247-161. “This legislation keeps teachers in the classroom, police on the streets, and our local health care facilities open treating patients,” said Costa. “Ensuring that these hardworking men and women can continue to serve our communities is critical to protecting Valley jobs and our economy.” In addition to saving police, firefighting, and nursing jobs, the bill is vital to protecting regional education workforces, providing grants to state and local governments to help them retain and hire teachers and other educational professionals. The Department of Education estimates that the legislation will fund 161,000 teaching jobs nationally (16,500 in California). In California’s 20th the National Education Association estimates that the bill will fund approximately915 K-12 jobs. Congressional District, the National Education Association estimates that the bill will fund approximately “Without this funding, states would be forced to lay off thousands of workers, especially teachers,” said Costa. “No one would feel the effects of these job losses more than Valley students and families. As students get ready to go back to school, we must make sure that teachers are in the classrooms to prepare them for college and their careers.” The legislation is fully paid for, funded largely by closing tax loopholes that encourage large corporations to ship American jobs overseas. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the bill will cut the deficit by $1.4 billion over the next decade. The bill’s provisions have received the support of national and local groups including the National Education Association, National Governors Association, CA Hospital Association, California Association of Public Health Systems, and Private Essential Access Community Hospitals. This bill will directly benefit Valley facilities like Valley Children’s Hospital and Community Medical Center that have been struggling as a result of state budget cuts. Following today’s vote, Costa will return to the district to host a small business workshop to support Valley business owners and entrepreneurs. For more information on this event, click here
08.06.2010	FRESNO, CA – Congressman Jim Costa released the following statement today after participating in a ribbon cutting ceremony for the expansion of the children’s center at WestCare California’s residential facility in Fresno. Due to an increased demand for family-based treatment in the Central Valley, Costa secured $381,000 in FY2009 for campus renovation and expansion to strengthen WestCare’s Fresno facility. “This new center will help WestCare advance its mission of helping those who’ve fallen on tough times get back on their feet and provide for their families,” said Costa. “The best thing we can do to help at-risk families is to provide them a safe and secure environment in which to recover. WestCare plays a vital role in our communities, and this expansion will allow them to better serve Valley residents in need.” Background The facility being expanded is a new children’s center for individuals in WestCare’s residential program. The expansion involved constructing a 1,300 sq. ft. addition to their women and children’s wing. WestCare is one of the largest not-for-profit health agencies in the U.S. and provides critical behavioral and social services to Valley families.
08.05.2010	Grants awarded to CSU Fresno will train more Valley nurses and improve health care for residents FRESNO, CA – Congressman Jim Costa today announced over $160,000 in federal funding to train Valley nurses and improve access to health care for families. The funding, in the form of two grants, will go to California State University, Fresno to prepare more individuals for careers in nursing and provide nurses with advanced education. The grants were made available through the Department of Health and Human Services and were authorized by the new health care law. “Nurses serve on the front lines of our health care system and are critical to caring for our seniors, families, and children,” said Costa. “This funding will strengthen our nursing workforce so Valley residents have access to the health care they need. Addressing our region’s shortage of health care professionals is vital to the future of our Valley, and these grants are another step forward.” Due to increased demand and an aging population, the San Joaquin Valley faces a growing nursing shortage. While Valley nursing programs have expanded, they would need to graduate 132% more nurses a year to meet even 90% of the current national average of nurses per 100,000 people by 2020. Costa has been actively working to increase the Valley’s health care workforce. This includes his efforts to develop a new medical school at UC Merced and his support for programs like the National Health Service Corps. The California State University, Fresno will benefit from the following two grants: Nurse Education, Practice, Quality and Retention ($90,021) – Provides infrastructure funding to expand the capacity of the nursing pipeline, promote career mobility for individuals in nursing, prepare more nurses at the baccalaureate level, and provide continuing education training to enhance the quality of patient care. Advanced Education Nursing Traineeship ($56,376) – Supports schools of nursing and individuals preparing to be many types of nurse specialists requiring advanced education.
07.29.2010	$14.6 million contract awarded for the Delta Mendota Canal/California Aqueduct Intertie project WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa today announced that the Bureau of Reclamation has awarded a $14.6 million contract for construction of the Intertie project that will link the Delta Mendota Canal to the California Aqueduct. The project will deliver water to San Joaquin Valley farmers who are in the most need of assistance during the water supply crisis. The funds are made possible through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act and are expected to provide the required funding to complete the project. “After working to secure funding, I am pleased that the Intertie is one step closer to delivering additional water to our Valley,” said Costa. “This project has been stuck in a bureaucratic backlog for six years. Fighting through this delay is a victory for our entire region.” “Water is the lynchpin of our local economy, from employment in rural farming communities to jobs in urban areas,” added Costa. “The Intertie will bring more water to farmers and will have a ripple effect throughout our economy. Our efforts to bring more water to the Valley this year continue to produce results and I look forward to breaking ground on this vital project.” Today’s announcement sets the stage for construction to begin on the Intertie. When completed, the project will connect the Delta-Mendota Canal to the California Aqueduct with a new pipeline and pumping station. The project with provide much needed flexibility in managing the water system and allow water to move to farmers who have been hardest hit by the crisis. According to the Bureau of Reclamation, the Intertie is scheduled to be online to deliver water in fall of 2011. Congressmen Costa has long fought for the Intertie project and was successful last year in passing legislation (click here) to help fund and support it. In July 2009, Congressmen Costa introduced two legislative amendments to alleviate the effects of the water supply crisis. One amendment cut through bureaucratic red tape by making it easier for water to be transferred from one county to another. The second amendment increased funding for the California Bay-Delta Restoration Program, providing a $10 million down payment on water projects including the Intertie. Both amendments passed Congress in October as part of a conference report for the FY 2010 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill. Since then, Costa demanded (click here) that the Interior Department make the Intertie project a top priority.
07.27.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa today introduced legislation to honor Hmong Veterans in the Valley and across the nation. The bill would provide burial benefits in National Cemeteries to Hmong Veterans who served in support of U.S. forces in the Vietnam War. “Our Hmong Veterans fought shoulder to shoulder with American soldiers during the Vietnam war,”“Many paid the ultimate sacrifice and I am proud that Hmong Veterans now call places like our Valley home. Our nation owes a debt of gratitude to these patriotic individuals and their service should be honored with burial benefits in our National Cemeteries.” said Costa. Officers from the CIA's Special Activities Division trained and led Hmong men in Laos and into Vietnam during the war. These forces numbered in the tens of thousands and conducted direct missions against Communist forces and North Vietnamese supporters. Since the end of the conflict in Vietnam, thousands of Hmong families have resettled in areas around the country. As a result of legislation signed by President Ford in 1975, today they are legal permanent residents or United States Citizens. Currently, burial benefits are available to veterans and Members of the U.S. Armed Services, their spouses and dependants, Reserve Officers, Public Health Service Officers, Merchant Mariners from World War II, and the Philippine Armed Forces. This legislation would add Hmong veterans to the list of individuals eligible for interment in National Cemeteries after they undergo a verification and documentation process by the Department of Veterans Affairs to certify their service. There are approximately 6,900 Hmong veterans that would be eligible for these burial benefits. It’s estimated that less than 3,000 of these veterans would actually take advantage of the benefits if made eligible for burial today. Costa was joined by 22 other Members of Congress in introducing the bill.
07.26.2010	Proposed rule would impact Valley meat producers and processors Washington, D.C. – Following Congressman Jim Costa’s request, the USDA Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration (GIPSA) announced its decision to extend the comment period for a proposed rule that would impact the way Valley meat producers and processors do business. In a House Agriculture Committee hearing on July 20th, Costa blasted the proposed rule, stating that it contains provisions far beyond what was mandated in the Farm Bill and has the potential to negatively impact Valley industry. Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman","serif";} “I am pleased that the USDA has responded to our calls to extend the comment period for this proposed rule” said Costa. “The Administration must listen to our farmers and ranchers to understand the devastating impact this rule could have and make the changes necessary to protect our Valley’s livestock industry.” GIPSA published the proposed rule in the Federal Register on June 22, 2010. The Agency proposed adding several new sections to the regulations under the Packers and Stockyards Act of 1921, as amended and supplemented. GIPSA will consider comments received by November 22, 2010. Comments may be submitted via e-mail to.
07.22.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa issued the following statement today upon House passage of an extension of emergency unemployment benefits. Approval by the House of Representatives sends the temporary extension to the President to be signed into law. Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} “After weeks of partisan delay, I am pleased that jobless Valley residents will receive this temporary relief as they continue to search for employment,” said Costa. “Our Valley is home to some of the hardest working people in our nation. Extending these benefits provides those who’ve lost their jobs a needed lifeline as they fight to get back on their feet and support their families. More than ever, Congress must focus on promoting economic growth and job creation in our communities. This is why I will continue to secure additional water and the tools our Valley needs to put people back to work.” The House vote to agree to Senate amendments to H.R. 4213, the Restoration of Emergency Unemployment Compensation Act, extends the Emergency Unemployment Compensation and Extended Benefits programs through November 30, 2010. This will retroactively restore benefits to people who may have started losing their benefits as early as the end of May. For video of Costa speaking in support of the extension on the House floor today, click here. Background The current lapse in extended benefits is unprecedented. Since 1959, the government has never allowed extended unemployment benefits to expire when the national unemployment rate is still above 7.2 percent. Extending unemployment benefits is widely acknowledged to be beneficial not just for the unemployed and their families, but for the economy as a whole. Moodys.com chief economist Mark Zandi, a former advisor to the McCain presidential campaign, testified before the Senate Finance Committee that every dollar in unemployment benefits creates at least $1.61 in economic activity as recipients spend their benefits in neighborhood businesses. According to a new survey by the Pew Research Center’s Social & Demographic Trends Project, 55 percent of all adults in the labor force say that since the economic downturn began 30 months ago, they have suffered a spell of unemployment, a cut in pay, a reduction in hours, or have become involuntary part-time workers. Unemployment rates in Fresno, Kern, and Kings Counties for the month of June are as follows: Fresno: 16% Kern: 15.7% Kings: 15.9%
07.13.2010	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} Recovery Act-funded courthouse in Bakersfield boosts Valley jobs and business BAKERSFIELD, CA – Congressman Jim Costa joined with U.S. General Services Administration Administrator Martha Johnson, Bakersfield Mayor Harvey Hall, Chief Judge Anthony Ishii and others today to break ground on the new U.S. Courthouse in Bakersfield. The new courthouse, made possible through $28.5 million in funding from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, is already spurring economic development and job creation for area contractors and businesses. “The new courthouse is an investment in the future of our Valley that is already creating jobs and spurring economic growth for the people of Bakersfield,” said Costa. “Securing these federal funds for our communities is a key part of our fight to strengthen our Valley’s economy. I would like to thank the entire city of Bakersfield and our local leaders for working with me on this project, and I look forward to celebrating the official opening in 2012. This is part of our continuing effort to return our fair share of tax dollars that we send to Washington home to our Valley.” Despite the critical need for a new facility, the U.S. Courthouse in Bakersfield lacked sufficient funding for construction until the Recovery Act awarded $28.5 million to the project. The new courthouse will house a U.S. Magistrate Court and Chamber, the District Clerk’s Office, U.S. Marshals office, and U.S. Probation and Pretrial Services. The new courthouse is also unique in its state-of-the-art energy efficient design. Both the building materials and the actual construction are aimed at reducing energy costs and saving taxpayer dollars. To date, the Recovery Act has invested $462,779,140 in California’s 20th Congressional District. It has invested $433,479,630 in Kern County.* *Numbers taken from www.recovery.gov
07.13.2010	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} Applauds action by VA to step up care for soldiers with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} FRESNO, CA – Congressman Jim Costa hailed yesterday’s announcement by Veterans Administration Secretary Shinseki that the VA is adopting new regulations to make it easier for our nation’s veterans suffering with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) to receive critical health and disability benefits. “Those who risk their lives in defense of our liberties deserve the best available care when they return home,” said Costa. “This includes our service members with injuries like PTSD that may not be visible. The benefits that these new rules will provide our Valley’s veterans are long overdue, and I commend the VA for taking action to improve health care for our veterans struggling with PTSD.” Before this change in VA regulations, veterans seeking health and disability benefits for PTSD were faced with the often impossible task of pinpointing the specific traumatic incident or stressor (i.e. an exploding bomb or ambush) that might have triggered their disorders. As a result, less than half of the Iraq and Afghanistan veterans diagnosed with PTSD are receiving benefits from the VA. Under the new rule, veterans simply need to prove they served in a war zone where the conditions were consistent with their symptoms. The new rule will also make it easier for all veterans suffering from PTSD to receive VA health care and disability compensation, and many Vietnam veterans who were denied PTSD benefits in the past may now be eligible. For more information, see the attached fact sheet. Additional information can also be found at www.va.gov or by calling the VA’s toll free benefits number at 1-800-827-1000. Background Over two million service members have served in Iraq and Afghanistan since 2001. It is estimated that 20 percent of these service members will develop PTSD. PTSD is a medically recognized anxiety disorder that can develop from seeing or experiencing an event that involves actual or threatened death or serious injury to which a person responds with intense fear, helplessness or horror, and is not uncommon among war veterans.
07.01.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Costa voted to protect the Valley’s economy and consumers by passing sweeping legislation to bring accountability and oversight to Wall Street. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act will put an end to taxpayer-funded bailouts, “too big to fail” banks, and the reckless behavior in the financial industry that brought our economy to the verge of collapse, devastating the savings, retirement funds, and livelihoods of countless Valley residents in the process. Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} “From the small business owner to our local community banks and working families, our entire Valley paid the price for reckless behavior on Wall Street,” said Costa. “This legislation will help prevent future financial crises while ensuring that Valley taxpayers don’t get stuck bailing out failed banks again. The days of “too big to fail” must end and this bill provides the oversight the financial industry needs.” Moving forward, Costa stated that our nation must renew its commitment to the real drivers of economic growth in America, specifically Valley agriculture, small business, and middle class families. “While this bill takes important steps to shore up our economy, our long-term economic security relies on protecting Valley agriculture, businesses, and families,” said Costa. “This is why securing more water and supporting our farmers, workers, and the middle class continue to be my top priorities in Congress.” The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act is fully paid for and the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimates that it will reduce the deficit by $3.2 billion over 10 years. The bill ends “too big to fail” financial firms before risky and irresponsible behavior threatens to bring down the entire economy. It also strengthens oversight over large banks and financial firms, including new regulation of credit rating agencies and riskier hedge funds, derivatives, and other complex financial deals. Text of the legislation can be viewed here. Highlights of the legislation are copied below.
07.01.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa released the following statement today regarding Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger’s intention to delay a vote on the $11.14 billion water bond until the November 2012 ballot: “Postponing this critical bond measure is frustrating to most of us who support the water package. However, the possibility of delay is better than outright defeat in November. “As our population has grown, our aging water infrastructure has continued to crumble beneath the weight of increased demand for this precious resource. No one knows this better than the people of our Valley. From farmers to farm worker families and Valley small businesses, we all rely on a stable supply of water to survive. “Throughout history, our Valley has had to fight for water to protect our economy and children’s futures. This year alone, we took on people who don’t live in our Valley to secure the water we need to get by. We have made progress, but the economic viability of our Valley also depends on long-term solutions, not just yearly battles. “The possibility of delay raises a number of questions. The biggest danger is granting Valley opponents more time to attack the bond and critical projects that will bring more water to our communities. “While delay will not affect the initial implementation of the 2009 water package, our State cannot continue to kick the can down the road. For too long, the people of our Valley have been forced to do more with less. Year after year, we should not have to go toe-to-toe with extreme environmentalists and critics to our North to provide for our families. “These are tough economic times, but a failure to deal with the long-term water challenges facing our state is not an option. Moving forward, I will continue to work at the federal, state, and local level to provide a more sustainable water supply for our Valley and California.” Costa is no stranger to bond measures that will benefit the Valley and State’s water supply. While in the State Legislature, Costa authored and helped win statewide approval of three water bonds, which raised more than $2 billion to improve California’s water system and provide for safe, reliable drinking water. The bond measures included Proposition 204 where he worked with a bipartisan coalition to create the benchmark Safe, Clean and Reliable Water Supply Act of 1996 that included restoration of the Bay Delta as well as groundwater recharge and flood control projects; and Proposition 13, the Safe Drinking Water, Clean Water, Watershed Protection and Flood Protection Bond Act that improved water quality, increased underground storage and repaired outdated water pipes and storage systems.
06.29.2010	Funding to train and place over 300 Valley workers WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa today announced $2,999,913 in funding to strengthen health care and create new job opportunities in the Valley. The funding, made available through the Department of Labor’s Community-Based Job Training program, will help meet the Valley’s growing health care workforce needs by providing job training and placement to over 300 Valley residents.“These funds will create jobs and strengthen health care right here in our Valley. It’s a double win for our region,” said Costa. “Our health care workforce must expand to meet the needs of our growing population, and this funding is a key step towards reaching that goal. Moving forward, I will continue to ensure that our local colleges and medical centers have the tools they need to succeed and serve Valley residents.” The funding was awarded to State Center Community College District (SCCCD). SCCCD partners with local workforce investment boards, community colleges, and rural and urban hospitals to offer training and job placement in healthcare occupations with a demonstrated need for workers in the Valley. Those new to the health care workforce receive training in both general and specialty progressions. Displaced workers receive refresher certifications to allow them to find and obtain employment. Incumbent workers receive training in areas of local need such as health care interpreting and/or upgraded credentials that leads to better occupational security and job advancement. Key SCCCD partnerships include Community Medical Centers, UCSF Fresno Medical Education Program, West Hills Community College District, and Fresno City College.
06.25.2010	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} Funding allows ag producers to upgrade tractors and farm equipment Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa today announced $10 million in funding for Valley farmers and ranchers to upgrade their tractors and agricultural equipment. The funding, made available through the USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS), offers agricultural producers incentives for retiring old inefficient engines to help improve air quality. “Today’s announcement is another win for our farmers and Valley economy,” said Costa. “Bringing this funding home will provide our farmers the financial tools to upgrade their farm tractors to meet emissions standards. I am pleased that the USDA recognizes the importance of supporting Valley agriculture as we work to improve our air quality. I also commend the work of our farmers who have been proactive throughout this process. I will continue to work with the Administration to ensure that our farmers and entire Valley receive the resources we need to succeed.” This funding is in addition to over $13 million available earlier this year for agricultural air quality improvements through the 2008 Farm Bill’s Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP). Costa was critical to securing this funding in the 2008 Farm Bill, and has worked closely with the Administration to make today’s additional $10 million available. The release issued by the USDA NRCS in California is below. ### USDA NRCS: FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Alan Forkey (530) 792-5653 Ted Strauss (559) 252-2191 $10 Million More Available to Help Ag Producers Improve Air Quality Funding to Reduce Backlog of Applications for Diesel Engine Replacement DAVIS, Calif., June 25, 2010 – The USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) in California announced $10 million in additional funding for farmers and ranchers interested in reducing air quality emissions from off-road mobile or stationary agricultural sources. This funding is in addition to over $13 million available earlier this year for agricultural air quality improvements through the 2008 Farm Bill’s Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP). The funding offers agricultural producers incentives for retiring old inefficient engines that contribute to air pollution problems. "This program has been so successful that we wanted to make more funding available for the large number of farmers and ranchers still requesting assistance this year,” said Ed Burton, NRCS State Conservationist for California. “We’ll be able to help more producers than we did in 2009.” The program’s success shows in the numbers: NRCS administered $18.7 million and funded 335 applications for replacement of on-farm diesel combustion engines in 2009. There are 36 counties eligible to use the funds to help achieve compliance with National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS). The eligible counties are Alameda, Amador, Butte, Calaveras, Contra Costa, El Dorado, Fresno, Imperial, Inyo, Kern, Kings, Los Angeles, Madera, Marin, Mariposa, Merced, Mono, Napa, Nevada, Orange, Placer, Riverside, Sacramento, San Bernardino, San Diego, San Joaquin, San Mateo, Santa Clara, Solano, Sonoma, Stanislaus, Sutter, Tulare, Tuolumne, Ventura and Yolo. “These counties are currently not in compliance with air quality standards for eight-hour ozone and particulate matter,” Burton said. “We’re impressed how farmers and ranchers have stepped up and made an investment in improving California’s air quality.” Producers have to come up with about half of the funds needed to voluntarily swap out older engines for newer, more efficient ones that are nearly 75 percent cleaner. Stationary, portable and heavy-duty off-road mobile systems are included as part of the program. NRCS has worked with academic, conservation, regulatory and industry groups to identify agricultural practices that will reduce ozone precursors [oxides of Nitrogen (NOx) and Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC)] and particulate matter [respirable (PM10) and fine (PM2.5)] emissions from agricultural sources. Applications have been ranked according to the amount of emission reductions achieved in the producer’s proposed plan. More information can be found at www.ca.nrcs.usda.gov/programs/eqip/2010/index.html. While there currently is an application backlog, interested producers in eligible counties can contact their local NRCS Service Center for information about future opportunities. A list of offices is available at https://offices.sc.egov.usda.gov/locator/app?state=CA. - NRCS -
06.24.2010	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 Agreement reached today by water users and environmental groups in response to Judge Wanger’s smelt decision Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman","serif";} Washington, D.C. – Following Judge Oliver Wanger’s May decision that federal regulations restricting Valley water are flawed, Valley water users and environmental groups reached an agreement regarding the Delta smelt that will keep the pumps moving water south of the Delta turned on through June. All pumping restrictions required under the smelt biological opinion will cease as of July 1st, allowing water to flow freely to the Valley through the end of the year. “This agreement will allow the pumps to stay turned on through June. This means more reliable water deliveries for our Valley economy,” said Costa. “Our battle against the flawed regulations cutting off our water is producing results, and Judge Wanger’s decision is a key step forward in our fight. More work remains in reforming these misguided water restrictions, but I am pleased that we have been able to increase the predictability of water flowing to our Valley in the short term.” Under the terms of the negotiated agreement by the water users and environmental groups: The CVP and the SWP jointly will conduct pumping operations that maintain the Old and Middle River (OMR) flows so as not to be more negative than -5,000 cubic feet per second (cfs). The FWS may require reduced pumping operations in order to maintain OMR flows less negative than -5,000 cfs if the numbers of smelt harmed (salvaged) at the pumps exceeds agreed upon levels or if trends of smelt salvaged at the pumps show an imminent threat to the species. For more information on Judge Wanger’s Delta smelt ruling, click here. More information on the agreement can be found here.
06.23.2010	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa today introduced a resolution expressing opposition to Iran’s nuclear weapons program and ongoing human rights abuses. The resolution also reaffirms Congress’ support for Iranian citizens struggling for freedom and calls for fair, democratic elections in Iran. Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} “Following the anniversary of Iran’s disputed presidential election, Congress must reaffirm its commitment to supporting democracy and freedom around the world,” said Costa. “Iran’s repeated defiance to the global community’s calls for disarmament is unacceptable. Congress must respond with additional sanctions and unified opposition to this abusive regime. Iran’s actions threaten our allies and the stability of the entire region” Iran's post-election crackdown following the disputed presidential election on June 12, 2009, was a human rights disaster. Violations of human rights have been pervasive throughout the history of the regime. Before and after the election, Iran's Revolutionary Guards, Basij militia, and police arbitrarily arrested thousands of peaceful protesters and dissidents, including students, women's rights activists, lawyers, and journalists in a clear effort to intimidate critics and stifle dissent. Along with expressing opposition to Iran’s weapons program and human rights violations, Costa’s resolution denounces the continued violence against the Iranian people by the Government of Iran and pro-government militias. The resolution also reaffirms the universality of individual rights and the importance of democratic and fair elections. As a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Costa has been a vocal proponent of tougher sanctions on Iran. In April, Costa was named a House conferee to participate in House-Senate conference committee negotiations on H.R. 2194, the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2009. Costa was joined by Rep. Ted Poe (R-TX), along with Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee Howard Berman (D-CA), Ranking Member Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Rep. Gary Ackerman (D-NY), Rep. Dan Burton (R-IN), Rep. Ron Klein (D-FL) and Rep. Mike Pence (R-IN) in introducing the resolution. “Since the fraudulent elections, hundreds of thousands of Iranians have taken to the streets in protest,” said Rep. Ted Poe. “They are fighting to be free and many giving their lives for democracy. At this critical time, they need to know that the United States, the leader of the free world, still believes that the pursuit of inalienable rights is worth the sacrifice. I urge my colleagues to send a strong message to the Iranian people that we condemn the human rights violations taking place in their country and that the United States will stand with them in their fight for freedom.”
06.14.2010	Increase brings allocation to four times the amount of water the Valley received last year WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa today announced that the Interior Department will be increasing water allocations from the federal Central Valley Project to 45 percent for agricultural service contractors south of the Delta. Interior’s latest announcement is another increase from the Department’s initial announcement of 5 percent on February 26. “Today’s announcement means more water and more jobs for our Valley,” said Costa. “This increase is also a sign of how far we’ve come in our fight for more water. This year, we started with the prospect of a zero water allocation. But our Valley fought back. We took on Valley outsiders who tried to cut off our water. We also took on the Washington bureaucracy until they listened to our Valley’s message.” Last year, the Westside received a mere 10 percent allocation. Costa said that the Valley will be able to build on this year’s success to secure more water next year. “The progress we have made this year sets the table for more water to the flow to our Valley in coming water years,” said Costa. “We still have more work to do, but we have turned a corner. I will continue to work to ensure that our Valley receives more of the water we need to succeed.”
06.11.2010	Sheriff applauds Costa for securing funds to help make raid possible WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa today applauded Valley law enforcement following this week’s raid on the violent Nuestra Familia gang. The raid, which resulted in over 30 arrests, was one of the largest in the Valley’s history. Law enforcement took down the gang’s organizational structure, seizing drugs and firearms in the process. “This week’s raid is a victory for our families and local law enforcement,” said Costa. “Our men and women in uniform put their lives on the line to make our communities safer. We owe them all a debt of gratitude for their service. Because of this historic coordination by local, state, and federal officials, our streets are cleaner and our neighborhoods are stronger.” Federal funds secured by Costa helped make the raid possible. Following the sweep, Kings County Sheriff Chris Jordan said, “It's only through the funding provided to us by Congressman Costa that allowed us to expand our narcotics enforcement operation and handle a case of this magnitude." (For more, click here) In FY08, Costa delivered $611,000 for the expansion of the Kings County Narcotic and Gang Task Force. This funding strengthened law enforcement in Kings County, allowing them to better fight drugs and gangs in the Valley. Costa expressed his appreciation in a letter to the Kings County Narcotic and Gang Task Force, which can be viewed below. ### Dear Chief Shortnacy: It is with great pride that I congratulate you and the other members of the Kings County Gang and Narcotics Task Force for your successful raid on the Nuestra Familia gang earlier this week. The magnitude of this case is certainly worthy of special recognition. The arrests of over two dozen violent drug traffickers goes a long way towards making Kings County and the entire Valley a safer place to live. This sweep demonstrates the importance of collaboration between local, state, and federal law enforcement agencies in the fight against illegal narcotics trade. The work ethic and enthusiasm of each officer in your department is evident in the successful outcome of this operation. There is no public safety issue more pressing in our Valley than the fight against violent gangs who traffic drugs through the region. Congratulations once again on your successful raid on the Nuestra Familia gang, and please let me know how I can be of assistance to your operations in the future. Sincerly, JIM COSTA Member of Congress
06.10.2010	$250 checks to be delivered over next several months Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa announced that today Medicare will begin mailing out $250 ‘donut hole’ checks to tens and thousands of qualifying seniors. Under the recently enacted health reform law, seniors who fall in the donut hole coverage gap in 2010 will receive this one-time, tax-free $250 rebate check. These checks will continue to be mailed monthly over the next several months as seniors enter the coverage gap. "This is just one example of how health care reform is strengthening Medicare and helping Valley seniors,” said Costa. “Prescription drug costs are a big burden on Valley seniors. These checks will save our seniors money as we get closer to closing the donut hole completely in 10 years.” The checks are the first benefit from health reform for seniors in the Medicare Prescription Drug program. Beginning in January 2011, seniors in the donut hole will receive a 50% discount on brand name drugs. By 2020, the donut hole will close completely. Seniors are subject to the donut hole if their prescription drugs cost too much to be paid for through basic Medicare coverage, but aren't expensive enough to qualify for catastrophic coverage. The ‘donut hole’ coverage gap is the period in the prescription drug benefit (once their prescription drug costs exceed $2,830) in which the beneficiary pays 100 percent of the cost of their drugs until they hit the catastrophic coverage threshold. Cost of Rx Cost to Patient Covered by Medicare 0–$295 100% of Rx cost No Medicare coverage $295–$2,830 25% of Rx cost 75% covered by Medicare$2,830-$6,440 100% of Rx cost No Medicare coverage over $6,440 5% of Rx cost 95% covered by Medicare Medicare recipients don’t have to do anything to get the $250 check – once their drug costs for the year hit $2,830 the one-time check will be issued automatically. Making prescription drugs more affordable for seniors is only one of the many benefits for seniors included in the recently enacted health reform law. Other benefits for seniors include: • Provides free preventive care services under Medicare, beginning in 2011. • Strengthens Medicare by extending its solvency by an additional 12 years, from 2017 to 2029. • Improves seniors’ access to doctors. • Continues to reduce waste, fraud and abuse. • Improves care by helping doctors communicate and coordinate. • Expands home and community-based services to keep seniors in their home, instead of in nursing homes.
06.10.2010	Grants will go toward expanding economic and housing opportunities WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa today announced over $6,000,000 in funding for the city of Bakersfield. The funding, awarded through the U.S Department of Housing and Urban Development, will go towards expanding economic and housing opportunities for the people of Bakersfield. “I am pleased that the people of Bakersfield will receive this critical funding,” said Costa. “These grants will invest in our communities to provide economic and housing support for those in need.” The funding is broken down into four grants: 1) $3,634,857 – Community Development Block Grant: Provides annual grants to States and local units of government to develop viable urban communities by providing decent housing and a suitable living environment, and by expanding economic opportunities, principally for low- and moderate – income persons. 2) $147, 357 – Emergency Shelter Grant: Provides annual grants to State, local, and private entities to improve the quality and number of emergency homeless shelters. 3) $1,695,784 – HOME Grant: Helps to expand the supply of decent, affordable housing to low- and very low-income families by providing grants to States and local governments to fund housing programs that meet local needs and priorities. 4) $635,917 – HOPWA Grant: Provides housing assistance and related supportive services to local units of government, States and non-profit organizations for projects that benefit low-income persons medically diagnosed with HIV/AIDS and their families.
06.09.2010	Costa: Funds are critical to protecting farmers and our economy Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa today delivered an additional $1 million in federal funding for Valley farmers to fight the European Grapevine Moth, a foreign pest threatening this summer’s harvest. Costa worked to secure the funding to protect the Valley’s economy and prevent farmers from suffering financial losses after the moth was found in the region. “Bringing these federal funds home to our Valley is critical to protecting farmers and our economy,” said Costa. “Without fast action, the moths could spread and result in significant crop losses. These funds will allow our farmers to fight these moths in time for the summer harvest.” Costa coordinated with the Administration, local agricultural leaders and farmers to secure this critical assistance. “When grapevine moths were found in our Valley, we took our message straight to the Administration,” said Costa. “We fought to provide our farmers with the tools to fight this pest and our efforts delivered results. I am pleased that the USDA recognized the need to move quickly, and I commend NRCS and APHIS for working with us to provide immediate assistance. I will continue to push the Administration to work with our farmers and agriculture commissioners to protect our agriculture industry from this pest.” Farmers can use the funds, distributed at a 50/50 cost share, to implement pest management techniques in areas affected by the moth. The funds were made available through the USDA’s Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS). Highest priority will be given to helping grape growers with vineyards that lie within 400 meters of a confirmed trapping of the grapevine moth in Fresno, Mendocino, Merced, Monterey, Solano, and Sonoma Counties. Second priority will be given to treat vineyards that are between 400-1000 meters of a moth trapped in all quarantined counties except Napa (Fresno, Mendocino, Merced, Solano, and Sonoma). Yesterday, Costa announced $1.75 million in funding to combat the grapevine moth through the USDA’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS). APHIS has already provided $3 million in Farm Bill and Agency contingency funds to the effort. Combined with today’s NRCS funding, over $5 million has been allocated for farmers to fight the moth. Background The European grapevine moth is found in Europe, the Mediterranean, southern Russia, Japan, the Middle East, Near East and northern and western Africa. Since 1986, surveys for this pest have been conducted throughout the United States without detections. However, in the fall of 2009, the grapevine moth was found in California, its first detection both in the United States and North America Applications will be taken at NRCS offices in the affected counties beginning today https://offices.sc.egov.usda.gov/locator/app?state=CA . Sign-ups will continue until June 23, 2010.
06.08.2010	Funds will prevent spread of pest threatening Valley grape industry and jobs Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa today announced $1.75 million in Farm Bill funding to prevent the spread of the European grapevine moth in California. The spread of the grap evine moth threatens the upcoming summer harvest and the Valley’s grape industry. “The livelihoods of Valley farmers and workers depend on a successful summer harvest,” said Costa. “The grapevine moth has the potential to be devastating to our crops if we do not act now. Early detection and intervention is key to protecting Valley jobs and ensuring the continued success of our grape industry. These funds will allow farmers to detect and control this pest before it spreads any further. I am pleased that the Administration has responded to our calls for support and I will continue to work with the USDA to provide the additional tools our Valley needs to combat this pest.” This funding, made available through USDA’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS), is dedicated to stopping the spread of the grapevine moth at an early stage. Funds go towards the trapping, detection, and surveying of the pest. APHIS has already provided $3 million in Farm Bill and Agency contingency funds to the effort.Background The European grapevine moth is found in Europe, the Mediterranean, southern Russia, Japan, the Middle East, Near East and northern and western Africa. Since 1986, surveys for this pest have been conducted throughout the United States without detections. However, in the fall of 2009, the grapevine moth was found in California, its first detection both in the United States and North America. To date, CDFA has established quarantines based on grapevine moth detections in Fresno, Mendocino, Merced, Napa, Solano and Sonoma counties. More information about APHIS’ European grapevine moth program is available online at www.aphis.usda.gov/plant_health/plant_pest_info/eg_moth/index.shtml.
06.03.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa today announced funding to benefit Kettleman City Elementary School. The Economic Impact Initiative Grant, awarded in the amount of $55,516, will be used to renovate the school’s outdoor physical education equipment. “I am glad to see these federal funds return to our Valley,” said Costa. “Investing in our schools is critical to advancing the education and futures of our children. Strong schools are also essential to the economic success of our region. This grant will encourage our local children to be active and improve the health of Valley residents for years to come. ” Targeted communities that are experiencing high rates of unemployment may apply for Economic Impact Initiative grant funds made available through the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development. The funds may be used for a variety of community facility needs including road maintenance equipment, police vehicles, computer and communication equipment, energy efficiency improvements and municipal buildings. More information about USDA Rural Development can be found at www.rurdev.usda.gov.
05.28.2010	Costa: Common sense has prevailed. More water is flowing to our Valley. WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) responded today to Judge Oliver Wanger’s decision on threatened Delta smelt, calling the ruling a win for Valley farmers and the economy. Wanger ruled that the scientific opinions regarding smelt were flawed and that water regulations must consider human factors along with fish concerns. "Today’s ruling is another victory for our farmers, workers, and entire economy,” said Costa. “Commonsense has prevailed. Bureaucrats and extreme environmentalists can no longer claim that fish matter more than people. Time and again, we have taken on these flawed water regulations. We are winning and more water is flowing to our Valley.” Today’s ruling comes on the heels of Wanger’s decision involving endangered salmon. Wanger ordered that limits on pumping water from the Bay Delta can be lifted to allow more water to flow to the Valley. Costa called Wanger’s decision another indication that the fight for more water is producing results. “The legislative and administrative strategy we have pursued is making a difference. We have initiated and supported scientific studies that have been critical to these judicial decisions,” said Costa. “We have secured four times the amount of water we received last year. We have brought home funding for critical water projects. We have also pushed the Administration to revise the water regulations punishing the Valley. Much work remains, and our fight for jobs and the Valley economy will continue.”
05.28.2010	Costa: The people of our Valley want answers, and so do I. WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressmen Jim Costa and Dennis Cardoza demanded answers from the National Academy of Sciences to explain why a scientist whose findings question the validity of federal water policy was removed from the panel examining the factors degrading the health of the Bay-Delta and solutions to the region’s water challenges. “The people of our Valley want answers, and so do I,” said Costa. “These resignations are a concern to those of us who have been fighting for solutions to California’s water crisis. The stakes are too high and our Valley cannot afford for the Committee’s credibility to be jeopardized. The economic viability and future of our region rely on sound science and the truth. Anything less is unacceptable.” Costa and Cardoza voiced their concerns in a letter addressed to Dr. Stephen Parker, Director of the Water Science and Technology Board at the National Research Council. The letter seeks answers on the dismissal of Dr. Patricia Glibert and the resignation of Dr. Michael McGuire from the Committee on Sustainable Water and Environmental Management in the California Bay-Delta. Glibert recently published a study that concludes that efforts to restore the threatened Delta smelt and other declining fish should focus more sharply on reducing nutrient pollution to the Delta rather than on agricultural pumping. The dismissal of Glibert following the release of the study, and McGuire’s subsequent resignation in protest, raise concerns regarding the future of the Committee. The full text of the letter can be read below. # # # May 28, 2010 Stephen D. Parker Director, Water Science and Technology Board National Research Council 500 5t h Street, NW Washington, D.C. 20001 Dear Mr. Parker: We are writing to express our concerns over the resignations of Patricia Glibert, Ph.D., and Michael McGuire, Ph.D., from the Committee on Sustainable Water and Environmental Management in the California Bay-Delta (Committee). The scientific integrity of this Committee is of utmost importance to the Delta and to our constituents; we would like to express our strong support for continuing to move forward with the study in an unbiased and objective manner. Science must guide all efforts to protect and recover fish species in the Delta. It was for precisely this reason that we initiated and supported the National Academies’ review of the two biological opinions on delta smelt and salmonids and other species. From the beginning, our goal has always been to complete an objective, independent scientific evaluation of the causes of decline of listed species and the best methods for recovery while also providing a reliable water supply for Californians. It is our belief that efforts to protect these species must take into account all available scientific evidence on stress factors and provide full consideration of the real impacts of water supply restrictions on society. Dr. Glibert’s work contributes to the important body of knowledge in this area. We understand that Dr. Glibert disclosed the nature of her study prior to her appointment to the Committee and a determination was made that this did not disqualify her from participating on the Committee. We also understand that a number of other Committee members have published research that is part of the relevant literature used in deliberations by the Committee. As such, we are not aware that the National Academies have been presented with any information that would lead to the determination that Dr. Glibert is incapable of considering points of view other than her own. It is extremely important to us that Committee be balanced and objective. We strongly support academic freedom and do not condone any notion of political influence in this scientific process. The ultimate outcome of this important work, if it is to be considered credible, must be undertaken by qualified, independent scientists who are committed to an objective, comprehensive analysis of all of the factors that have limited the abundance of listed fish species in the Delta and have resulted in a significant decrease in the San Joaquin Valley’s water supply. We look forward to your response regarding how the National Academies plans to ensure the integrity of this process as it moves forward. Sincerely, JIM COSTA DENNIS CARDOZA Member of Congress Member of Congress
05.26.2010	Costa: Ruling is welcome news for our economy and those of us fighting to change unfair water regulations WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) issued the following statement after Judge Oliver Wanger ordered that limits on pumping water from the Bay Delta can be lifted to allow more water to flow to the Valley. Wanger’s ruling follows his earlier decision that regulations limiting water for the Valley are flawed. "Judge Wanger's ruling is more welcome news for our farmers and economy. It is also good news for those of us fighting to change unfair federal water regulations. Our job now is to make sure nothing stands in the way of getting the water Judge Wanger’s ruling promises. “This decision means more water will flow to the Valley and jobs will return. We have already secured four times the amount of water we received last year, and Judge Wanger’s ruling is another step forward in our fight for our Valley. "Science is on the Valley's side. The people fighting against us and our economy will find it more and more difficult to hide behind one-sided and biased scientific opinions to excuse their actions. I have long argued that the regulations restricting the Valley's water in the name of protecting endangered fish are flawed. I am pleased that the Administration, and now the courts, are starting to see it our way. "The truth is that agricultural pumping cannot be blamed solely for the decline in the Bay Delta's health. Every day we see further confirmation of the devastation that the dumping of pollutants far to our north is having on the Delta. Most recently, a University of Maryland study concluded that the health of the Delta cannot be seriously improved until the discharges of ammonia into the water system are addressed. "Despite our successes, now is not the time to let up. Every day is a new opportunity to take our fight for water to a new level. The stakes are too high and our economy is on the line. I will continue to keep the pressure on the Administration so we can keep building on the progress we have made."
05.20.2010	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} Costa: Interior and Commerce must incorporate new science into Valley water operations Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressmen Jim Costa (D-Fresno) and Dennis Cardoza (D-Merced) sent a letter to Interior Secretary Salazar and Commerce Secretary Locke, urging the Departments to incorporate new science into revising the current water regulations restricting the flow of water to the Valley. Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} The letter was spurred by findings from Judge Wanger’s court that the regulations do not take into account human factors and that they have not been scientifically justified by the federal agencies. Wanger’s conclusions set the table for more water to flow to the Valley. Costa called Wanger’s decision another step forward in his fight for more water. “The bottom line is that we are winning our fight for water,” said Costa. “Our work to get our economy going again is producing results. But we must keep the pressure on the Administration. Now is not the time to let up and I will continue to push the Administration for more water.” Costa also pushed the Administration to take into account the findings by the National Academy of Sciences initial report on the status of California’s Bay-Delta (for more, click here) and the recent University of Maryland study (for more, click here) on the devastating effects of wastewater discharges into the Delta. The full text of the letter is copied below the release. A signed copy of the letter is attached. # # # May 20, 2010 The Honorable Ken Salazar The Honorable Gary Locke Secretary, Department of the Interior Secretary, Department of Commerce 1849 C Street, N.W. 1401 Constitution Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20240 Washington, D.C. 20230 Dear Secretaries Salazar and Locke: This letter is to follow-up with you in regards to your recent announcement to launch an interagency plan to better integrate science in California’s Bay-Delta. This announcement is welcome news to us and to the farmers, farmworkers, and farm communities of California’s San Joaquin Valley that we represent. As you know, water equals jobs in the Valley and your commitment to working with us and related federal, state, and local agencies are producing results, increasing the water allocation to 40% for South of Delta agricultural water users, up from 10% last year. We are grateful for your efforts. Recent events continue to shed new light on California’s water crisis, including findings by the National Academy of Sciences, the University of Maryland and University of California Davis, as well as this week’s decision by the United States District Court for the Eastern District of California that the agencies violated the National Environmental Policy Act when they adopted the June 2009 biological opinion for the protection of salmonid species and that the National Marine Fisheries Service failed to base its decisions on the best available science and failed to provide scientific justification for certain actions prescribed by the biological opinion. Given what is at stake, we strongly encourage you to act expeditiously to analyze these findings and incorporate new science into water operations for Delta exports for this water year. As you know, decisions by the agencies to restrict water deliveries to California’s San Joaquin Valley without considering the human health and the safety of the human environment have devastated the Valley’s economy and persist to this day even as more rain and snow continues to fall throughout the state. This emergency still exists, and every additional drop of water that we can secure by holding ourselves to the highest scientific standards is essential. We look forward to continuing to partner with you as we seek to find short, mid, and long-term solutions to California’s water challenges and thank you in advance for your prompt response. Sincerely, JIM COSTA DENNIS CARDOZA Member of Congress Member of Congress
05.19.2010	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} FRESNO, CA. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) issued the following statement regarding today’s groundbreaking ceremony for the Fresno Veterans Home. “Today is the culmination of efforts we started over ten years ago. Our work to locate and fund a Veterans home in the Valley has paid off. This home has been a labor of love and a personal mission for many years. Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} “The Fresno Veterans Home is just one of the ways we can say thank you for everything our Valley’s veterans have given us. This home is a place where our veterans can come to live; it is a place where they can receive health care; and it is a place where our veterans can enjoy the quality of life they deserve and have earned. “Our Valley owes an immeasurable debt of gratitude to the countless men and women who answer the call of duty and serve our nation so selflessly. Their stories are the American story. Their sacrifice and bravery must never be forgotten. “It is the honor of a lifetime to have done my part in making the Fresno Veterans Home a reality. Whether it’s fighting for projects like this or ensuring that our soldiers receive the benefits they have earned, I will continue to do everything in my power to serve our Valley’s veterans, just as they have served our country. “I would like to thank Secretary Brautigan, Charlie Waters, Chuck Parnell, Gordon Pickett, Dan Payne, Rufus Hernandez and all the members of the Central CA Veterans Home Support Foundation and the many veterans groups involved for their outstanding work to bring this project to fruition.” The Fresno Veterans Home will be the first veterans home in Fresno County. It will have 300 beds and employ approximately 452 permanent employees Congressman Costa was one of the forces behind the effort to bring the home to Fresno. Over 10 years ago, as a state lawmaker, he helped place it on the list of locations being considered by the legislature and fought successfully to get it approved. Fresno, along with Los Angeles and Redding, made the final cut. As a member of Congress, Costa or a member of his staff attended monthly meetings in the district over the last five years to coordinate planning and construction. Thanks to his work, the Department of Veterans Affairs, under the State Veterans Home Construction program, allocated 65% of the costs of construction for the project. The VA has provided over $92 million for this project. Other California Veterans Homes are located in Yountville (Napa County), Barstow (San Bernardino County), Chula Vista (San Diego County), Lancaster (Los Angeles County) and Ventura (Ventura County). New Homes coming online include Fresno, Los Angeles and Redding (Shasta County).
05.18.2010	Water Regulations Biased Against Valley Must Be Changed WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) said he will use a new study to further his fight to change water regulations that punish the Valley for fish-killing pollutants dumped into the water system far to the north. Costa has long contended that flawed water regulations are devastating the local economy by diverting water from the Valley in the name of saving fish while all but ignoring the effects of pollutants entering the Bay Delta from as far north as the Bay Area and Sacramento. A University of Maryland study examines the impact of dumping pollutants on fish populations in the Bay Delta. The study recommends that efforts to restore the threatened California Delta smelt and other declining fish should focus more sharply on reducing nutrient pollution to the species’ native waters. “Our fight for more water is producing results,” said Costa. "The Administration is moving forward to revise the biological opinions restricting water for the Valley. But we must keep the pressure on and hold their feet to the fire. The stakes for the Valley are too high. “The only way to address our water challenges is to take a commonsense and comprehensive approach to the Bay Delta. This means putting aside the politics and finger pointing to look at the facts. “The Maryland study is another in a growing number of findings as to how flawed and one-sided the regulations restricting the flow of water to the Valley are. The truth is that the dumping of ammonia, nitrates, and sewage into the Delta is having a catastrophic effect on the same fish the regulations are trying to save.” Key quotations from the study and a copy of the release issued by the University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science are copied below. ### Key Quotations Regarding the Impact of Pollution on the Food Supply and Abundance of Delta Smelt and Other Aquatic Species Excerpted from Dr. Patricia M. Glibert, University of Maryland, “Long-term Changes in Nutrient Loading and Stoichiometry and their Relationships with Changes in the Food Web and Dominant Pelagic Fish Species in the San Francisco Estuary, California” “Beginning in the early to mid 1980s, the ecosystem was characterized by sharp declines in delta smelt, longfin smelt, and young-of-the-year striped bass….While smelt is a planktivore, not all the fish studied here are, but all require zooplankton as food at least in their larval or juvenile stages or rely on prey that rely on zooplankton. As predators increased, those fish that were in decline due to changes in food supply were subjected to additional stresses of predation. In the most recent decade, there were the further declines in smelt, along with silversides and threadfin shad. During this time, NH4 {ammonium} loading from wastewater discharge increased 25%, from ~ 9 metric tons to 12 metric tons day, leading to a strong correlation over the time series of CUSUM trends in wastewater effluent NH4 and the delta smelt.” Pages 23-24 “The overwhelming conclusion here is the fact that relationships between nutrients and fish are stronger than those of flow and fish….Water restrictions are thought to be required to reduce further loss of these fish by entrainment in export pumps. However, management strategies to date have not reversed fish declines because they have not addressed the ultimate cause of the change at the base of the food web and the complex role of nutrient form and quantity.” Pages 24-25. “The present study supports the premise that reduction of the NH4 {ammonium} effluent into the Bay Delta is essential to restoring historic pelagic fish populations and that until such reductions occur, other measures, including regulation of water pumping or manipulations of salinity, as has been the current strategy, will likely show little beneficial effect. By altering nutrient composition and nutrient load, it is likely that a healthy phytoplankton assemblage including diatoms could be restored. A clear management path is the application of nitrification and denitrification processing of the dominant nutrient source, the wastewater effluent, prior to discharge into the estuary to 1) decrease NH4 concentration in the river; 2) reduce N:P ratio of the effluent; and 3) increase NO3-:NH4 ratio to a level required to increase diatom abundance to support a more favorable food web for fish production Pre-1982 nutrient concentrations and ratios could serve as a management target.” Page 25 “Thus, a clear management strategy is the regulation of effluent N discharge through nitrification and denitrification. Until such reductions occur, other measures, including regulation of water pumping or manipulations of salinity, as has been the current strategy, will likely show little beneficial effect. Without such action, the recovery of the endangered pelagic fish species is unlikely at best.” Page 29. University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science Christopher Conner Director of Communications & Marketing '); document.write(addy2291); document.write('<\/a>'); //-->\n cconner@umces.edu '); //--> This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. '); //--> (443) 496-0095 Post Office Box 775 • Cambridge, MD 21613-0075 • PUBLIC RELATIONS • 443-496-0095 https://www.umces.edu New Research Links Decline of Endangered California Delta Smelt to Nutrient Pollution Study suggests pollution reductions could help restoration efforts Cambridge, Md. (May 17, 2010) – A new study to be published in the academic journal Reviews in Fisheries Science recommends that efforts to restore the endangered California delta smelt and other declining pelagic fish should more sharply focus on reducing nutrient pollution to the species’ nativewaters. The research indicates these fish populations would greatly benefit from reductions in the amount of nitrogen flowing into Sacramento-San Joaquin Bay-Delta from wastewater treatment plants and balancing the ratio of nitrogen and phosphorus contained in the discharged water. “While a great deal of emphasis has been placed on ensuring there is enough water for delta smelt, we also need to recognize that the water also has to have the right chemical balance,” said Dr. Patricia Glibert of the University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science. “The research shows us that reducing the amount of nitrogen from Bay-Delta wastewater treatment plants should aid the recovery of the delta smelt population. The high nutrient loads are affecting the algae at the base of the food web, which in turn, affect the food supply for the fish. This has altered the ecology of the system over many years.” For her research, Dr. Glibert analyzed 30 years of water chemistry, river flow, plankton, fish population and effluent discharge data to determine possible linkages to the population of the delta smelt and other pelagic fish in the Bay-Delta system. The analysis reveals that declines in delta smelt population most closely coincide with effluent changes from the region’s major wastewater treatment plant. “The effect of nutrient loading on fish populations has been in debate for some time,” said Dr. Glibert. “While the current rate of wastewater discharge is within established permit and nutrient criteria guidelines, the ecology appears to require environmental conditions more favorable than these guidelines. In this study, a broad-scale, long-term approach was taken to understand how nutrients are related to the food web.” “Reviews in Fisheries Science is pleased to publicly release this research prior to being published in our print edition," said journal editor Dr. Sandra E. Shumway of the University of Connecticut. “We believe this research will contribute to the regional public discussions about this issue and will have significance for other nutrient impacted coastal systems elsewhere as well.” A professor of ecology and oceanography at the University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science Horn Point Laboratory and member of the National Academy of Sciences committee examining sustainable water and environmental management in the California Bay-Delta, Dr. Glibert’s research focuses on nitrogen cycling, harmful algal blooms and their relationships with the food web. In addition to this research, Glibert is conducting, or has recently completed, research projects in Chesapeake Bay, Florida Bay, the Arabian Sea, East China Sea, and Australia and she currently serves as co-Chair of the international working group on land based nutrient pollution and harmful algal blooms. The San Francisco Estuary, which encompasses the Sacramento-San Joaquin Bay Delta, is one of the largest estuarine systems on the Pacific Coast as well as one of the largest managed and engineered water systems in the United States. It is the largest source of municipal and agricultural fresh water in California and is home to several economically important fisheries. The Bay-Delta is the subject of considerable national public awareness due to the sociopolitical and socioeconomic tension surrounding the plight of the endangered delta smelt (Hypomesus transpacificus) and the courtordered modifications of water diversion projects to protect the species. The article, “Long-term changes in nutrient loading and stoichiometry and their relationships with changes in the food web and dominant pelagic fish species in the San Francisco Estuary, California,” will appear in Reviews in Fisheries Science later this year. This research was supported by the National Science Foundation and California State Water Contractors and San Luis & Delta-Mendota Water Authority. The University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science is the University System of Maryland’s environmental research institution. UMCES researchers are helping improve our scientific understanding of Maryland, the region and the world through five research centers – Chesapeake Biological Laboratory in Solomons, Appalachian Laboratory in Frostburg, Horn Point Laboratory in Cambridge, Institute of Marine and Environmental Technology in Baltimore, and the Maryland Sea Grant College in College Park.
05.14.2010	FRESNO, CA – On Friday, May 14th Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) will officially announce Adam L. Silva of Hallmark Charter School as this year’s winner of the annual Congressional Art Competition. Silva’s painting is titled “Luna & Night Sky” and will be sent to Washington, DC next month to be on display in the Cannon House Office Building tunnel for one year. His artwork will be displayed with other winning artwork from around the nation. “Each year, the Congressional Art Competition allows Valley students to demonstrate their extraordinary artistic talent,” said Costa. “This year’s winners are no exception, and I look forward to viewing Adam’s inspiring work in our nation’s capitol.” Since 1982, the Congressional Art Competition has honored the creative talents of thousands of high school students across the nation. Local competitions are voluntarily hosted by Members of Congress in their home districts. In June, the winning artwork is sent to Washington, and winners are invited to the Capitol for a ribbon-cutting ceremony and Congressional reception. The competition receives over 500 entries every year. Sara Flowers, of Hanford West High School, won second place with a piece titled “Self-Portrait,” and the third place winner was Maria D. Salcido, of McFarland High School, with a piece titled “Rising Son.” Costa will honor the winners at an event starting at 5:30 pm (PDT) on Friday, May 14th at the United Security Bank Building, first floor. The address is 855 M Street, Fresno, CA 93721. Members of the media are invited to attend.
05.12.2010	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} Bill will curb milk price volatility and promote industry growth WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) today introduced legislation to protect American jobs and strengthen our nation’s dairy industry. The Dairy Price Stabilization Act promotes market stability and individual dairy farmers’ ability to grow their own business. Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} “While periods of boom and bust are not new to the dairy industry, our dairy families cannot afford another year of low milk checks that don’t even cover the cost of production,” said Costa. “The dairy price crisis is devastating our local economy and ability to create and sustain jobs. This bill will help the dairy industry get back on track and curb the milk price volatility that is driving dairy farmers in the Valley and our nation out of business” In 2009, dairy farms throughout the country experienced one of the worst price crises of the last 40 years. Last June, prices dropped to an average of over $6.00 per hundredweight, dramatically below the cost of production. An inconsistent national support system and the absence of a national supply management plan has exacerbated the price instability and created an unsustainable business cycle for many dairy families. In 2009, America’s roughly 65,000 dairies lost over $12 billion. Sharp losses forced dairy farmers to lay off workers and, in many cases, shutter their operations. “We have a real opportunity to make meaningful changes to prevent future dairy crashes like the one we’re in now,” added Costa. “Protecting the livelihoods of our dairy families is critical to promoting a full economic recovery and the nation’s access to healthy dairy products.” The Dairy Price Stabilization Act would help stabilize dairy prices by better aligning supply and demand. Under the program, individual dairies would have the choice of either maintaining their current production level (plus an allowable year-over-year growth rate based on market indications) or expanding their production and increasing their share of the market. Dairies choosing to increase their market share would pay a fee during the first year of expansion which is paid out to their fellow dairy farmers who are maintaining their current share of the market. This creates a rational system that allows the market to absorb increases in production by providing a tangible financial incentive for most dairies to manage their production growth. The structure of the bill is based on unbiased economic analysis and modeling conducted in the past 18 months. Both the growth rate and market access fee would be determined based on market indicators including feed costs which are the largest cost factor for producers in states like California. A producer board of directors would be established to advise the Secretary of Agriculture on any necessary adjustments to program operations. The bill empowers farmers by allowing them to vote on whether to enact the program and, three years after it commences, to vote on whether to continue it. Video of Congressman Costa speaking on the floor of the House of Representatives today in support of the Dairy Price Stabilization Act can be viewed here. Costa was joined by four other Members of Congress from across the country in introducing the bill, including Congressmen Peter Welch (D-VT), Joe Courtney (D-CT), Rick Larsen (D-WA), and John B. Larson (D-CT). “After the worst year in recent memory, the time for comprehensive dairy reform legislation has arrived,” said Rep. Joe Courtney. “I am pleased to join with Congressman Costa and others on this effort that will help stabilize dairy markets and protect our farming families.” “The Washington state dairy industry is the tenth largest in the nation. The 128 dairy farms in Whatcom County, in my district, produce the 2nd greatest amount of milk in the state,” said Rep. Rick Larsen. “This means many local jobs and hardworking families depend on stability in the dairy industry. Every day, countless farmers and families throughout my district suffer through the roller coaster that is the dairy market. “Rep. Costa’s bill makes important steps toward stabilizing the price of milk, which is a top priority for dairy farmers. While I recognize this is only a first step in responding to the concerns that dairy farmers have around the country, this is an important step, and I am happy to support Rep. Costa’s legislation today.” “Continuing volatility within the dairy industry has devastated Vermont’s hardworking family farmers and their counterparts across the country. We have responded with important short-term support measures, but we must not delay in finding a path to long term reform,” said Rep. Peter Welch. “This bill sets an important marker as we find consensus within the industry about how to ensure the survival and prosperity of dairy.” Added Rep. John B. Larson, “I believe in reward for a hard day’s work. But, because of the volatility in milk prices, small dairy farmers in Connecticut, New England, and throughout our nation have been denied a decent living. We need to bring commonsense reform to the market that protects the livelihood of our small dairy farmers, and the food that average Americans put on their table.”
05.07.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) today announced that orchardists and nursery tree growers can begin applying for benefits under the Tree Assistance Program, which was authorized in the 2008 Farm Bill. Signup begins Monday, May 10, 2010, at local Farm Service Agency (FSA) offices. "Orchardists and nursery tree growers are critical to spurring economic and job growth in our Valley,” said Costa. “This program allows orchardists and nursery tree growers to better recover from natural disasters.” The Tree Assistance Program (TAP) provides help to orchardists and nursery tree growers who produce trees, bushes and vines for commercial purposes, to replant or rehabilitate trees, bushes and vines damaged or destroyed by natural disasters. Through Costa’s support, the 2008 Farm Bill expanded eligibility to include nursery tree growers that were ineligible under prior legislation. To be eligible for TAP, producers must have suffered more than a 15 percent death loss due to the natural disaster after adjustment for normal mortality. TAP is a cost-reimbursement program, with payments covering up to 70 percent of replant costs and 50 percent of pruning, removal and other salvaging costs for replacing or salvaging damaged trees. Producers can receive assistance for up to 500 acres of trees, bushes or vines. Producers must also have purchased a policy or plan of insurance under the Federal Crop Insurance Act or Noninsured Crop Disaster Assistance Program, or for 2008, obtained a waiver of the risk management purchase requirement through the buy-in provision. Eligible losses must have occurred on or after Jan. 1, 2008, and before Oct. 1, 2011. For more information on the new TAP program, please contact your county FSA office or the website at https://www.fsa.usda.gov. # # #
05.06.2010	Costa: Changes make health care benefits more accessible for Valley vetsWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) today announced changes to the VA that will make it easier and faster for veterans to apply for their health care benefits. These improvements are a result of the Department of Veterans Affairs updating its online Form 10-10EZ, “Application for Health Benefits.” “These changes to the VA will make critical health care benefits more accessible for our Valley’s veterans,” said Costa. “Just as our military forces pledge to leave no soldier behind, we must promise to do the same for them. I value all the work our men and women in uniform do, and will continue to fight in Congress for their medical care, benefits, salary and education.” The revised online application provides enhanced features that make it easier and faster for veterans to apply for their health care benefits. This updated form also streamlines the collection of information from veterans by eliminating some questions. Veterans may complete or download the 10-10EZ form at the VA health eligibility website at https://www.1010ez.med.va.gov/sec/vha/1010ez/. Veterans may also contact the VA at 1 (877) 222-8387 (VETS) or visit the VA health eligibility website at www.va.gov/healtheligibility. Veterans seeking assistance with the VA or other federal agencies are encouraged to contact one of Congressman Costa’s two district offices: Rep. Costa’s Fresno Office: 559-495-1620 Rep. Costa’s Bakersfield Office: 661-869-1620
05.06.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) today released the following statement after Roelof van Ark was named the new CEO of the California High-Speed Rail Authority. “I am a strong supporter of California’s high-speed rail project and commend the California High-Speed Rail Authority’s decision to hire Roelof van Ark as its new CEO. Mr. van Ark brings a wealth of experience to the project, and his proven track record demonstrates the seriousness with which the Authority is taking its mission to build a world-class high-speed train for California. “High-speed rail will bring great benefits to the Central Valley and California, creating jobs and spurring economic growth to power the state’s future. In the Central Valley alone, the high-speed train is expected to generate more than 135,000 full-time one-year job equivalents over the course of its construction. “This is a highly complex project and Mr. van Ark has a challenging task ahead of him. However, the Authority has selected someone with experience building high-speed rail projects in other countries and who will apply that experience to delivering a safe and efficient high-speed rail system for Californians. The leadership of Mehdi Morshed has been critical to getting us to this point, and I now look forward to working with Mr. van Ark to make high-speed rail in California a reality.” Rep. Costa is considered by many to be the pioneer of California’s high-speed rail project. Costa was the original author of the high-speed rail bond that passed in California in November, 2008. The bond measure allocated $9.95 billion towards the state’s high-speed rail project. Costa is currently the co-chair of the Congressional California High-Speed Rail Caucus.
05.05.2010	Interior and Commerce Departments To Integrate Bay Delta Biological Opinions Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) responded today to Interior Secretary Ken Salazar and Commerce Secretary Gary Locke’s announcement of an interagency plan to revise and integrate two biological opinions issued under the Endangered Species Act. Integrating the biological opinions opens the door to modifying the one-sided scientific rulings limiting the flow of water to the Valley. “This announcement is another indication that we are making progress in our fight for water,” said Costa. “For too long, extreme environmentalists and Valley outsiders have stood behind bad science to hang our local economy out to dry. Revising these flawed biological opinions is a shot to our critics’ agenda which includes cutting off our water, no matter how much it hurts our Valley’s jobs and way of life.” Costa has long pushed for revisions to the rulings that punish the Valley in the name of protecting endangered fish while all but ignoring much of what is actually killing the species. He called the announcement a move in the right direction. “I have long said that the biological opinions are not using the best available science,” added Costa. “Integrating these flawed regulations will finally allow us to take a more commonsense and comprehensive approach to California’s water challenges. This is good news for our Valley’s farmers, workers and communities who depend on reliable water deliveries. It’s also positive for the fisheries that rely on a healthier Bay Delta. I will continue to monitor this process to ensure that all factors affecting the Delta are considered, and that the challenges facing the Valley are fully addressed.” The goal of the near-term strategy is to incorporate new science into the process for implementing the biological opinions in water year 2011. Longer term, the plan calls for development of a single, integrated biological opinion based on a joint science program that encompasses Interior’s FWS, U.S. Geological Survey, and Bureau of Reclamation; Commerce’s NMFS; as well as state scientists. The integrated biological opinion will address the Bay Delta Conservation Plan and water project operations. The new plan grew out of a March 19 National Academy of Sciences assessment of the two separate biological opinions. For more information on the National Academy of Sciences study and Rep. Costa’s response to the preliminary assessment, click here. Last year, Costa introduced HR 2977, a bill directing the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Bureau of Reclamation, to enter into an agreement with the National Academy of Sciences to conduct a comprehensive study of sustainable water and environmental management in the Bay Delta. Costa also joined Senator Feinstein’s efforts to initiate the National Academy of Sciences study on reviewing the two biological opinions.
05.04.2010	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} Costa: Our efforts are paying off. More water is flowing to the Valley WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) today announced that the Interior Department will be increasing water allocations from the federal Central Valley Project to 40 percent for agricultural service contractors south of the Delta. Interior’s latest announcement is another increase from the Department’s initial announcement of 5 percent on February 26. Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} “Our efforts to press the Administration for more water are producing results,” said Costa. “More water is flowing to our Valley this year. Jobs will return and the increased water allocation will help get our economy back on track. Our fight is far from over, but we are turning the corner and making real progress.” Water district managers in the Valley have stated that our farmers need a minimum allocation of 40 percent to make it through the year. Due to drought conditions and misguided regulations, last year the Westside received a mere 10 percent water allocation. In addition to his efforts to increase the Valley’s water allocations, Costa recently took on the flawed regulations that are restricting the movement of water to the Valley (for more information, click here). In a letter to Commerce Secretary Locke, Congressmen Costa and Cardoza, along with Senator Feinstein, called on the Department to exercise greater flexibility in implementing the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) biological opinion so more water can flow to the Valley now. The Interior Department’s full release can be viewed below. /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} # # # Secretary Salazar Announces Increased Central Valley Project 2010 Water Allocation Agricultural Water Service Contractors South-of-Delta Receive 40 Percent Allocation WASHINGTON -- Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar today announced that the Bureau of Reclamation’s 2010 Central Valley Project (CVP) Water Supply allocations have increased for agricultural water service contractors in California’s San Joaquin Valley. “I am pleased to announce that the water allocation for the hard hit, South-of-Delta agricultural water service contractors has increased to 40 percent, up from the initial 5 percent allocation in February,” said Salazar. “It is because of the determination and cooperation of our partner agencies, water users, and stakeholders, and because of the support of Senators Feinstein and Boxer, and Congressional Representatives Miller, Cardoza, Costa, Thompson, and Grace Napolitano that we are able to make this announcement today.” The improved allocation is based in large part on the efforts announced by Secretary Salazar in February to secure additional sources of water to boost allocations for South-of-Delta agricultural water service contractors on the west side of the San Joaquin Valley and improved storage and runoff into the CVP reservoirs, in particular the American River watershed. The California Department of Water Resources has been a key partner in the effort to shore up supplies. Since the February announcement, Reclamation has continued to firm up supplemental water supplies through the following actions: - Improved operations through more precise compliance with Old and Middle River flows by the Bureau of Reclamation and the State Water Project; - Additional water transfers to be made available from senior east side water users to the west side, through groundwater substitution and other actions; - Adjusting the timing of water use (sometimes referred to as source shifting) to address low point issues in San Luis Reservoir; - Capturing and temporarily using excess San Joaquin River Restoration Program flows in the Mendota Pool; - Applying Joint Point Diversion operations to allow for more flexibility between the state and Federal projects. “While this improvement is welcome news, California’s Central Valley is still struggling to overcome the effects of three years of drought and water system operational constraints needed to address water quality and fish species of concern in the Delta,” added Secretary Salazar. “The department continues to work with the state and other water interests to improve the reliability of water delivery throughout California.” Compared to the previous allocation and using a conservative forecast (generally referred to as the 90-percent exceedance forecast): - The allocation for Municipal and Industrial (M&I) water service contractors north of the Delta, including American River and Contra Costa M&I contractors, remains at 100 percent. - M&I water service contractors south of the Delta remains at 75 percent allocation. - Agricultural water service contractors north of the Delta remains at 100 percent allocation. - Agricultural water service contractors south of the Delta are allocated 40 percent—up from the 30 percent allocation made on April 15, 2010. - Friant Division agricultural water service contractors’ allocation of Class 2 water supply increases to 30 percent—up from 15 percent; Class 1 allocation remains at 100 percent. - Eastside Division agricultural contractors’ (Stanislaus River) allocation remains at 100 percent of their contract quantities. - The allocation for settlement contractors with claims to senior water rights along the Sacramento and San Joaquin Rivers remains at 100 percent of their contract quantities. - Wildlife refuges’ allocation north and south of the Delta remains at 100 percent of their “Level 2” water. For additional information on today’s announcement, please see the Mid-Pacific Region’s website at https://www.usbr.gov/mp/pa/water. For questions or additional information, please contact the Region’s Public Affairs Office at 916-978-5100 (TTY 916-978-5608) or e-mail '); document.write(addy_text33937); document.write('<\/a>'); //-->\n mppublicaffairs@usbr.gov '); //--> This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. '); //--> .
04.30.2010	Valley farmers, ranchers and dairymen selected to testify WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) and the House Agriculture Committee today announced the witnesses for the upcoming field hearing in Fresno to discuss U.S. agriculture policy in advance of the 2012 Farm Bill. The hearing will take place on May 3rd at the Fresno City Hall Council Chambers. “I am pleased that Valley agricultural producers will have the opportunity to add their input to the upcoming farm bill,” said Costa. “Listening firsthand to our farmers, ranchers, and dairymen is critical to strengthening our agricultural policy.” The hearing is one of several field hearings the Agriculture Committee is hosting around the country, and is part of an ongoing effort to hear from farmers, ranchers, and industry leaders as the committee prepares to draft the next comprehensive Farm Bill, the set of laws, regulations and programs which provide the overall framework for the system of U.S. agriculture. The hearing is open to the public. Live video of the hearing will be available on the House Agriculture Committee website (https://agriculture.house.gov/hearings/audio.html) for those who can't attend in person. The Committee will also provide the opportunity for local farmers and ranchers to submit comments in writing to ensure that interested individuals have the opportunity to be heard and influence the development of the next farm bill. Details for written submission will be distributed after the hearing. Witness List Panel I Mr. Jamie Bledsoe, dairy producer, Riverdale, California Mr. Tony Campos, almond producer, sheller and shipper, Caruthers, California Mr. John Diener, almond, grape, wheat, alfalfa, sugarbeet, tomato and spinach producer, Five Points, California Mr. Kevin Kester, cattle and grape producer, Parkfield, California Mr. Jon Reelhorn, nursery plant producer, wholesaler, and retailer, Fresno, California Mr. Frank Rehermann, rice producer, Live Oak, CaliforniaPanel II Mr. David Roberts, orange, lemon and grapefruit producer, Visalia, California Mr. Jamie Strachan, vegetable producer and shipper, Salinas, California Mr. John Teixeira, organic tomato, eggplant, bell pepper, melon and corn producer, Firebaugh, California Mr. Paul Van Konynenburg, peach, apple, cherry, apricot, almond, and walnut producer, Modesto, California Mr. Justin Parnagian, peach, nectarine, plum, grape, apricot, and citrus producer, packer and shipper, Fresno, California More Information WHO: Chairman Collin Peterson, Congressmen Costa and Cardoza, and other Members of the House Agriculture Committee WHAT: Field Hearing to Review U.S. Agriculture Policy in Advance of the 2012 Farm Bill WHEN: Monday, May 3rd, 9:00 a.m. PDT WHERE: Fresno City Hall Council Chambers, 2nd Floor, 2600 Fresno St., Fresno, CA
04.29.2010	Agriculture Committee to hear from CA farmers, ranchers and industry leaders WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) today announced that the House Agriculture Committee will hold a field hearing in Fresno to discuss U.S. agriculture policy in advance of the 2012 Farm Bill. The hearing will take place on May 3rd at the Fresno City Hall Council Chambers. “Hearing directly from our state’s farmers and ranchers is critical to crafting the best possible Farm Bill,” said Costa. “The San Joaquin Valley is home to some of the top producers in our country and should play an instrumental role in shaping our agriculture policy. I look forward to hosting the Committee and showing my colleagues firsthand just how important California agriculture is to our nation’s economy.” The hearing is one of several field hearings the Agriculture Committee is hosting around the country, and is part of an ongoing effort to hear from farmers, ranchers, and industry leaders as the committee prepares to draft the next comprehensive Farm Bill, the set of laws, regulations and programs which provide the overall framework for the system of U.S. agriculture. "I am pleased that we will hear from farmers and ranchers in California as we prepare to write the next Farm Bill," said Agriculture Committee Chairman Collin Peterson. "Learning how the current Farm Bill is working on the ground for producers will help us make needed improvements and consider new ideas and new ways to provide an effective safety net for agriculture and rural America." The hearing will consist of two panels that feature an array of witnesses representing the many agriculture interests in the state. The Committee will also provide the opportunity for local farmers and ranchers to submit comments in writing to ensure that interested individuals have the opportunity to be heard and influence the development of the next farm bill. Details for written submission will be distributed after the hearing. The hearing is open to the public. Live video of the hearing will be available on the House Agriculture Committee website (https://agriculture.house.gov/hearings/audio.html) for those who can't attend in person. Information regarding media availability will be made available in advance. More Information WHO: Chairman Collin Peterson, Congressmen Costa and Cardoza, and other Members of the House Agriculture Committee WHAT: Field Hearing to Review U.S. Agriculture Policy in Advance of the 2012 Farm Bill WHEN: Monday, May 3rd, 9:00 a.m. PDT WHERE: Fresno City Hall Council Chambers, 2nd Floor, 2600 Fresno St., Fresno, CA
04.27.2010	Push Commerce Department to increase water flowing to the ValleyWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressmen Jim Costa (D-Fresno) and Dennis Cardoza (D-Merced) today sent a letter to Commerce Secretary Locke, calling on the Department to exercise greater flexibility in implementing the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) biological opinion that is diverting water that could be flowing to the Valley into the Pacific Ocean. “The biological opinions restricting the flow of water to the Valley are flawed and must be reformed,” said Costa. “Until then, the pumps should operate at the highest levels so our Valley receives as much water as possible. Every acre-foot of water is valuable and contributes to the economic health of our region.” Currently, stored water is being released from Shasta Reservoir, because the reservoir is nearly full, and storage capacity is needed for flood protection. However, this water cannot be rediverted downstream in the Delta due to pumping restrictions imposed under the biological opinion issued by NMFS in June of 2009. As a result, tens of thousands of acre-feet of water are now flowing into the ocean. Flexibility in implementation of the NMFS biological opinion would allow more of this sorely needed water to reach the Valley. At the urging of Congressmen Costa and Cardoza, the Department of the Interior has already been more flexible in implementing the 2008 Fish & Wildlife Service biological opinion for Delta smelt, which allowed more water to be moved south of the Delta from January through March of this year. It is critical, especially with over 100% snowpack in the Sierras, that the Commerce Department demonstrate similar flexibility. The time to act is now, while the water can be used productively. Costa and Cardoza have long spoken out against the flawed biological opinions restricting water for the Valley. To address this issue, Costa and Cardoza introduced legislation, H.R. 3999, to force the Bureau of Reclamation to “re-consult” on the two biological opinions under the Endangered Species Act so that the stressors like dumping sewage and non-native species are taken into account and more water flows to the Valley. The letter, signed by Congressmen Costa and Cardoza as well as Senator Feinstein, can be found here .
04.27.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) today made the following statement on the floor of the House of Representatives regarding the 95th anniversary of the start of the Armenian Genocide. Video of Costa’s remarks can be seen here . Excerpts from Costa’s statement (as prepared) are below: “This past Saturday marked the 95th anniversary of the Armenian Genocide. Last Saturday, I joined with Fresno’s Armenian community to commemorate this horrific tragedy. Today, I once again call upon this body to pass the Armenian Genocide Resolution to officially recognize this genocide in our nation. “In my remarks before the Foreign Affairs Committee markup of H. Res. 252, The Armenian Genocide Resolution, I indicated how historians had clearly documented this event. I said, ‘My Armenian friends believe this systematic approach to eliminate the Armenian communities from their homes and farms was among the first genocides of the 20th century, and so do I.’ “Theodore Roosevelt once wrote, ‘...the Armenian massacre was the greatest crime of the war, and the failure to act against Turkey is to condone it ... the failure to deal radically with the Turkish horror means that all talk of guaranteeing the future peace of the world is mischievous nonsense.’ “There is never a ‘right time,’ to recognize genocide and we cannot wait around for a convenient moment to recognize this truly catastrophic event.”
04.23.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) yesterday sent a letter to Governor Schwarzenegger, pressing the Governor to increase the State’s commitment to downtown revitalization projects in the Valley and entire State. Specifically, Costa urged the Governor, like previous governors, to step up their support for downtown communities by locating state agencies downtown whenever possible. “A vibrant, healthy downtown has economic, cultural and environmental benefits which can be felt in any community,” said Costa. “We can’t turn our backs on over two decades of combined state and federal efforts to prevent our downtowns from ‘dying on the vine.’” Throughout his career, Costa has been supportive of downtown revitalization efforts. This support includes specific projects in both Fresno and Bakersfield, such as the efforts to bring a Federal Courthouse to Bakersfield, and revitalize Chinatown in Fresno. The text of Costa’s letter to Governor Schwarzenegger is below. # # # April 21, 2010 The Honorable Arnold Schwarzenegger Governor State of California State Capitol Building Sacramento, CA 95814 Dear Governor Schwarzenegger, Please tell me Governor, that it is not the State’s intention to turn its back on a collaborative, bipartisan effort on the local, state, and national level to revitalize downtowns in California. A vibrant, healthy downtown has economic, cultural and environmental benefits which can be felt in any community. Previous State and Federal Executive Orders have had a common purpose in mind – revitalizing cities throughout California and the United States. I understand our state of California is facing difficult economic times. In the majority of cases, office space downtown for state and federal agencies is cost-effective and competitive. If we turn our backs on over two decades of state and federal efforts to prevent our downtowns from “dying on the vine” we have no one but ourselves to blame. Throughout my career as a state legislator in California, and during my time in Congress, I have been supportive of downtown revitalization efforts. This support includes both specific projects in Fresno and Bakersfield, such as the efforts to bring a Federal Courthouse to Bakersfield, locate state agencies downtown, as well as revitalizing Chinatown in Fresno. Furthermore, I’ve been instrumental in larger policy efforts at the state and federal level, including during my tenure as President of the National Conference of State Legislators. The Executive Order issued by President Jimmy Carter and renewed by succeeding Presidents of both parties to locate federal offices in downtown communities whenever possible is an example of the importance that downtowns hold, and a strong statement of Federal support for downtown revitalization. Further, the “Good Neighbor Program” instituted by the GSA under President Clinton was an important effort to enhance public-private partnership with urban downtown associations and maintain the vitality of American cities by locating federal agency offices in downtowns when possible, all things being equal. I urge you to keep the commitments you and previous governors have made that recognize the value of a healthy, vibrant downtown community by locating state agencies downtown whenever possible. It is of great significance that policymakers recognize the importance of downtowns and act accordingly. Sincerely, JIM COSTA Member of Congress
04.21.2010	Up to 9,700 district small businesses eligible for tax creditWASHINGTON, D.C. – Valley businesses will be getting a little bit of good news in their mailboxes soon. Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) said today that businesses will soon receive information in their mailboxes about new tax credits they are eligible for as part of the health care reform legislation approved last month. “Small businesses are key drivers of economic growth and job creation,” said Costa. “This tax cut will help many employers offer insurance to their workers and ease their already overburdened budgets. It’s important for Valley small businesses to know this tax credit is available and that they can start taking advantage of it immediately.” The tax credit is available to companies with 25 or fewer employees and an average wage of $50,000 or less that provide health insurance for their employees. There are up to 9,700 small businesses in the district that could qualify for these credits. Companies with 10 or fewer employees and an average wage of $25,000 or less get the maximum credit—35% of what the employer is paying for insurance coverage. The maximum credit rises to 50% in 2014. The tax credits are available beginning with this tax year. The IRS will be mailing the postcards to small businesses around the country that may qualify for the credit. The IRS provides answers to Frequently Asked Questions on the tax credits.
04.21.2010	Honors life and career of Valley broadcasting legend WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) today honored the life and career of Valley broadcasting legend, Roy Isom, in a speech on the floor of the House of Representatives. Video of Costa’s floor speech can be viewed here . Excerpts from Costa’s speech (as prepared) are below: “As the voice of agriculture for over 40 years, Roy was a force in the broadcasting industry, relentlessly reporting on the issues that matter most to our communities. “Roy’s hard work translated into stories and reports that were critical to making sense of what was going on in our Valley and nation. “Whether it was reporting on the first lunar landing or breaking down agricultural news in the region, Roy’s style and ethic serves as an example to our younger generation of reporters and broadcasters.”
04.21.2010	Act designates April 18th to April 24th as National Crime Victims’ Rights weekWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressmen Jim Costa (D-CA) and Ted Poe (R-TX) today announced that House Resolution 1104, the National Crime Victims’ Rights Week Act of 2010 passed the House of Representatives. This act designates the week of April 18th as National Crime Victims’ Rights Week to increase public awareness of the rights, needs, and concerns of victims and survivors of crime in the United States. “This week is about supporting the victims of crimes and acknowledging the individuals who work tirelessly on their behalf,” said Costa. “During the 26th Anniversary of National Crime Victims’ Week, I encourage all of my colleagues to recognize the critical importance of supporting victims’ rights and the need to do more to advocate for those who have suffered from serious crimes.” “Crime victims are not just statistics,” said Poe. “They are real people with families and loved ones. This week we take the opportunity to honor their courage and their memories, and recommit ourselves to protecting the rights of crime victims throughout our nation.” As co-chairmen and co-founders of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus, Costa and Poe have been leaders in bringing the issue of crime victims’ rights to the forefront in Congress. The Caucus has been successful in authoring legislation and amendments to help bring more debate to this critical issue. The theme of this year’s Crime Victims Rights’ Week is “Fairness, Dignity, Respect.” For video of Costa speaking in support of the National Crime Victims’ Rights Week Act, click here.
04.16.2010	Discusses plan to strengthen the dairy industry, boost economyWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) yesterday addressed the USDA Dairy Advisory Committee to discuss his plan to strengthen the U.S. dairy industry. Costa is currently working on legislation that will protect Americans jobs and promote stability and growth in the dairy market. “When our dairymen succeed, our economy succeeds,” said Costa. “My plan will help the dairy industry grow and curb the milk price volatility that is driving dairymen out of business.” Legislation being developed by Costa uses market principles like financial incentives to better align supply and demand while still promoting dairies to grow. Milk price volatility has resulted in a nearly 25% reduction in the dairy industry in California over the past year. Costa applauded the industries efforts to coordinate and encouraged continued cooperation between producers and processors throughout the nation in reforming the nation’s dairy policies. Added Costa, “We have a real opportunity to make meaningful changes to prevent future dairy crashes like the one we’re in now. I would like to thank the Secretary and each of the USDA Dairy Industry Advisory Committee members for the opportunity to speak, and for continuing to work with me to move the U.S. dairy industry forward.” The purpose of the Dairy Advisory Committee is to review the issues of farm milk price volatility and dairy farmer profitability and provide a report with recommendations to the Secretary on how USDA can best address these issues to meet the dairy industry’s needs in the near and long term. The Committee is made up of producers and experts from around the country.
04.15.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Congressmen Jim Costa (D-CA) and Ted Poe (R-TX) today joined members of the bipartisan Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus to honor this year’s outstanding individuals that have given countless hours of their time and service to helping victims of crime. “As co-chair of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus, I’m honored to announce the deserving winners of this year’s awards,” said Costa. “The recipients are unsung heroes for those who have suffered from a serious crime. The acts of these few individuals serve as an example to our nation and inspire us all to do more to ensure the legal rights of victims of crime.” “I am proud to honor the service of these courageous individuals who have devoted their lives to the cause of victims’ rights,” said Poe. “Their work has made our nation safer and given a voice to thousands of victims across the country. They deserve our gratitude and thanks.” In honor of Victims’ Rights Week, Costa took to the floor of the House to speak in support of victims’ rights and the individuals who dedicate their time to serving those in need. For video of Costa’s floor speech, click here. Costa and Poe are co-founders and co-chairmen of the bipartisan Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus, formed in 2005. The mission of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus is to elevate crime victim issues in Congress in a bipartisan manner without infringing on the rights of the accused, and to represent and to advocate before the Administration and within Congress on behalf of crime victims. The 2009 Victims’ Rights Caucus Recipients (1) Lois Haight Award of Excellence and Innovation – Suzanne Brown-McBride has dedicated her life and work to victim assistance, public safety, and crime prevention. Suzanne began her work on behalf of sexual assault victims in 1991 as a community education specialist and crisis line advocate. Since that time, she’s demonstrated success as an administrator through her leadership of sexual assault and domestic violence service programs in California, Washington State and Oregon. Before recently beginning her tenure as Deputy Director of the Council of State Governments Justice Center, Suzanne served as the Executive Director of two statewide victim assistance associations: the California Coalition Against Sexual Assault; and the Washington Coalition of Sexual Assault Programs. Suzanne Brown-McBride was nominated by Representative Jim Costa (CA-20). (2) Suzanne McDaniel Public Awareness Award – Jay and Linda Foley are founders of the Identity Theft Resource Center (ITRC) in San Diego, California. When the ITRC began, “identity theft” was a crime where victims had no legal standing. It is now recognized through countless federal and state laws, and ITRC has made its name in developing victim assistance strategies that have made a profound difference in the lives of folks who fall prey to identity theft. The ITRC works actively to raise awareness of identity theft through mailings, partnerships with local businesses, and social networking. They additionally provide no-cost assistance to victims of identity theft, which has helped many people avoid financial ruin. Jay and Linda Foley and the Identity Theft Resource Center were nominated by Representative Susan Davis (CA-53) and Representative Brian Bilbray (CA-50). (3) Ed Stout Memorial Award for Outstanding Victim Advocacy – Herman Milholland currently serves as the Director/Chief of the Crime Victim Services Division in the Office of the Texas Attorney General. He has dedicated his life to serving victims at the local, state and national levels. Herman has built state and local programs from the ground up that provide crime victims with compensation and restitution. He has ensured that victims in court proceedings are treated with respect and afforded their rights under the law. Importantly, Herman has also provided national leadership that focuses on a strong and positive future for crime victim assistance in America. Whether his efforts are focused on an individual victim in need of help or a national initiative to ensure the future of the victim assistance field, he is dedicated and committed to advocating for victims, their rights and needs and the services they deserve. Herman Milholland was nominated by Representative Ted Poe (TX-2). (4) Ed Stout Memorial Award for Outstanding Victim Advocacy – David Voth has served as the Director of Crime Victim Services in Lima, Ohio, since 1985. He is recognized as an outstanding advocate for victims of crime, and also for his unique expertise in the justice technology that enhances victim services. David is a founding member of the Board of the National Victims’ Constitutional Amendment Network, which seeks to promote victims’ rights across the nation. In 2009, he published, Quality Victim Advocacy: A Field Guide, which aims to simplify program planning and evaluation for victim assistance groups. The book has become a “must read” for victim advocates everywhere. David Voth was nominated by Representative Jim Jordan (OH-4) (5) Allied Profession Award – Christine Keels has dedicated her life to community corrections in both Maryland and the District of Columbia. Christine designed the Victim Services Program for the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency in Washington, D.C. Through her leadership, Christine ensured that corrections officers were trained in victim issues. She also developed a District and cross border advocacy program to connect service provides with victims of crime, and to begin a dialogue between services providers to share information, resources and techniques. These efforts led to the development of a Victim Services Program Resource Manual, which was reviewed by the Department of Justice’s Office of Victims of Crime and utilized in the development of a national registry of service providers. Christine was nominated by Representative Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC). (6) Eva Murillo Unsung Hero Award – Susan Russell is a personal hero to many in the victim advocacy world. In 1992, she was kidnapped, raped and left for dead in a remote wilderness area. Her recovery began her path as an advocate and activist for other survivors of crime. She has been a prominent “voice for victims” at the local, state and national levels, testifying before Congress about the Victims of Crime Act and before the Vermont Senate Judiciary Committee to influence the outcome of victim related legislation in that state. Susan Russell was nominated by Representative Peter Welch (VT-At Large)
04.15.2010	Responds to updated Salazar announcement: "We are winning our fight for water" WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) today issued the following statement regarding Secretary Salazar’s announcement that the Interior Department will be increasing water allocations from the federal Central Valley Project to 30 percent for agricultural service contractors south of the Delta. Combined with the additional 8 to 10 percent of supplemental water the Department said it will obtain through various actions, today’s announcement represents a possible 40 percent water allocation for Westside Valley farmers and farm communities at normal contracted water rates. “This announcement is proof that we are winning our fight for water,” said Costa. “Every additional drop we secure puts people back to work and helps get our economy going again. Water is the lifeblood for our farmers, workers, Latino community, and entire Valley. People are still hurting and more work must be done so additional water flows to our region. I will continue to fight to ensure we build on the progress we have made.” Interior’s latest announcement is an increase from the Department’s initial announcement of 5 percent to agricultural contractors south of the Delta on February 26. After the persistent efforts of Congressmen Costa and Cardoza and Senator Feinstein, Interior updated the allocation to 25 percent on March 16. Water district managers in the Valley have stated that our farmers need a minimum allocation of 40 percent to make it through the year. Due to drought conditions and misguided regulations based on flawed science, last year the Westside received a mere 10 percent water allocation. Today’s increased water allocation also comes on the heels of Costa’s announcement that the Valley will receive $20.7 million in Recovery Act funds for the Intertie project that will link the Delta Mendota Canal to the California Aqueduct. The project will deliver over 30,000 acre-feet of water to San Joaquin Valley farmers who are in the most need of assistance during the water supply crisis. Costa acknowledged the work of Secretary Salazar and his colleagues Senator Feinstein, Congressman Cardoza, and Leader Hoyer. “I recognize the Interior Department’s efforts to increase the Valley’s water supply in these tough times,” said Costa. “The work of Senator Feinstein, Congressman Cardoza, and Leader Hoyer has been critical moving forward. I will keep holding the Administration’s feet to the fire. The Administration must continue to do more to provide immediate relief to our Valley as we work on long-term solutions.”
04.15.2010	Blasts flawed policies and closed-minded thinking restricting water to Valley farmers, farm workers, and communitiesWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) today took the Valley’s fight to the floor of the House of Representatives. Speaking during debate on H.R. 4715, the Clean Estuaries Act, Costa took on the close-minded approach to California’s water supply crisis and the flawed biological opinions that are restricting the movement of water to the Valley. For video of Costa speaking, click here . Costa’s expanded remarks (as prepared) can be viewed at the bottom of the release. Costa has long spoken out against the flawed biological opinions and Valley outsiders who have pushed for increased water restrictions on farmers, farm workers, and the Latino community. Costa has repeatedly stated that other factors like pollution and invasive species must be considered in regards to the decline of the Bay Delta’s health. This was recently confirmed by the National Academy of Sciences report (for more information, click here ) on water management and Bay Delta health, which states: “[…] No scientific study has demonstrated that pumping in the south delta is the most important or the only factor accounting for the delta-smelt population decline. Therefore, the multiple other stressors that are affecting fish in the delta environment as well as in the other environments they occupy during their lives must be considered, as well as their comparative importance with respect to the effects of export pumping.” # # # Costa’s expanded remarks (as prepared): “I rise to speak in support of HR 4715: the Clean Estuaries Act of 2010. Reauthorization of this program will improve our opportunities to clean up our nation’s waterways. “A good example is the persistent degradation of the largest estuary on the West Coast: California’s San Francisco Bay and Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta. “Unfortunately, two flawed biological opinions, one issued by Fish & Wildlife Service and the other by the National Marine Fisheries Service, focus solely on exported water to the Valley and Southern California for the decline in Bay-Delta health. “Agricultural communities south of the Bay-Delta, especially in my District, bear the entire brunt of the biological opinions and have been overwhelmed by reductions in water supply allocations when they already face Depression-level unemployment, home foreclosures, and food insecurity. “The hardest-working people you’ll ever meet have stood in food lines and have been turned away. “Unemployment has risen above 35% in many Valley towns and lingered there for months on end as a result of this crisis. “Meanwhile, urban centers continue to pollute the Bay-Delta with toxic runoff and waste discharged from sewage facilities, refineries, city streets, and power plants, significantly degrading the ecosystem, and putting the Valley’s water supply and agricultural jobs at risk. “There are also apparently over 2,000 pumps in and around the Delta that at times can take as much water as we export South, with no fish screens. “A recent study at UC Berkeley found that pyrethroids, one of the most widely-used home pesticides, are now found in California’s rivers at toxic levels to certain stream dwellers. “In other words, runoff from lawns in cities like Sacramento is further threatening the food supply of fish such as the threatened Delta smelt. “This is just one example of the many, not to mention non-native predatory fish like striped bass that compete with salmon for the same food and even eat young salmon as they make their way through the Bay-Delta. “This single-minded view has resulted in the loss of jobs and has endangered the livelihoods of farmers, farm workers, and farm communities in the San Joaquin Valley who rely on exported water to grow half the nation’s fresh fruits and vegetables. “Enough is enough. It’s time for other regions of California to share in the responsibility for the decline of water quality and fisheries. “Playing the blame game and pointing fingers at the Valley’s economy and some of the hardest working people in the country will not resolve our water crisis. “Working together will. “Without water, there is no work; there is no food on the table. There is no San Joaquin Valley. “We must work together not only to address the drought crisis in the short-term, but also to find long-term solutions to California’s water supply needs. “Step one is reducing and preventing the longstanding pollution that is threatening the Sacramento and San Joaquin River systems and our region. “Passing this measure will help all our nation’s estuaries.”
04.13.2010	$20.7million in Recovery Act funds for the Delta Mendota Canal/California Aqueduct Intertie project WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressmen Jim Costa (D-Fresno) and Dennis Cardoza (D-Merced) today announced $20.7 million for the Intertie project that will link the Delta Mendota Canal to the California Aqueduct. The project will deliver water to San Joaquin Valley farmers who are in the most need of assistance during the water supply crisis. The funds are provided through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act and are expected to provide the required funding to complete the project. “This funding is another step forward in our fight for the Valley,” said Congressman Costa. “The Intertie will deliver more water to our farmers to help put people back to work and get our economy going again. I have repeatedly pressed the Administration to do more to address the immediate needs of the Valley as we work on long-term solutions to the water crisis. I am pleased that the Interior Department is responding to these efforts. While this announcement is good news, the fact still remains that our farmers need a minimum allocation of 40 percent to make it through the year. I will continue to push the Administration to increase the flow of water to our Valley.” “As I have said many times, we need to get the pumps turned on and get water to our farmers,” said Congressman Cardoza. “Until we obtain long-term solutions to this regulatory drought, we must also pursue all practical means of delivering irrigation water to those in need. I have worked hard over the past year to get the Intertie built and I am pleased to see this real-world solution finally bearing fruit.” When completed, the Intertie will connect the Delta-Mendota Canal to the California Aqueduct with a new pipeline and pumping station. The project with provide much needed flexibility in managing the water system and allow transfers of water to farmers who have been hardest hit by drought. According to the Bureau of Reclamation, the Intertie is scheduled to be online to deliver water in fall of 2011. It was initially identified in the August 2000 CALFED Bay-Delta Program Programmatic Record of Decision. Congressmen Costa and Cardoza have long advocated for the Intertie project and were successful last year in passing legislation (click here) to help fund and support it. In July 2009, Congressmen Costa and Cardoza introduced two legislative amendments to alleviate the effects of the water supply crisis. One amendment cut through bureaucratic red tape by making it easier for water to be transferred from one county to another. The second amendment increased funding for the California Bay-Delta Restoration Program, providing a $10 million down payment on water projects including the Intertie. Both amendments passed Congress in October as part of a conference report for the FY 2010 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill. Since then, Congressman Cardoza and Costa demanded (click here) that the Interior Department make the Intertie project a top priority.
04.13.2010	Four days left to mail back Census forms WASHINGTON, D.C. – With only four days left to mail back Census forms, Congressman Costa (D-Fresno) today again called on fellow Valley residents to participate in the 2010 Census. “Our Constitution requires a population census every 10 years,” said Costa. “An accurate census count is critical to ensuring our Valley receives the funding we need to invest in key areas like education, transportation, and infrastructure. Our schools, libraries, community centers and so many other important programs rely on Census results.” The results of the Census will determine how more than $445 billion in federal funds – for everything from schools to roads to senior centers – are distributed to state, local, and tribal governments over the next decade. It also affects representation in Congress and the Electoral College. There's still time to fill out the Census form and mail it back by April 16. It costs the government just .42 cents to receive a questionnaire back in the mail, but costs taxpayers $57 if a census taker has to go out to a house to collect the same information. If every household mailed back their census form, taxpayers could reduce the cost of the census and save $1.5 billion. The 2010 Census is one of the shortest in U.S. history, consisting of only ten questions. The Census is conducted every ten years and consists of questions about the number of people living in your home and some demographic information about them. “I hope you all join me in filling out the Census form,” added Costa. “It is vital to making sure our communities, schools, and families benefit from their fair share of funding.” If individuals do not receive a form they can request one by calling the federal Census Bureau at 1â€866â€872â€6868 or by contacting their local offices below: Bakersfield Olive Drive Bakersfield, CA 93311 Phone: 661-695-4260 Fresno North Blackstone Avenue Fresno, CA 93701 Phone: 559-650-0660
04.07.2010	"It's On" Fresno Congressman Tells Bay Area Democrat FRESNO, CA - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) said today that if Bay Area Congressman George Miller (D-Richmond) wants a war over water allocations, then Costa and his Congressional District will give him one. Friday’s San Francisco Chronicle (link below) quotes Miller promising to push for tougher restrictions on water diversions to farms and cities in the San Joaquin Valley. “We've beat them before and we'll beat them again,” Miller said at the Salmon Summit in Fort Mason. “We have stood up to the bully tactics of extreme environmentalists whose agenda ignores our families and our futures. We’ve made progress. More water will flow to our Valley and George Miller doesn’t like it," Costa said. “Here’s my message to Congressman Miller: We will not back down – not in the Valley and not in Congress. “If he wants a fight with the Latino community and Valley farmworkers whose futures depend on water allocations, we’ll give him a fight. “If he wants to fight with people whose economy hinges on farms getting a fair share of water, we’ll give him a fight. “If he is willing to destroy the entire Valley way of life to suit his own ends, he’ll get the fight of a lifetime. “George Miller is a poster boy for polluters whose toxic waste creates stress factors that kill fish upstream while he pushes for water restrictions that solely blame and punish us for dwindling fish populations. “He is the flag carrier for outsiders who are willing to destroy our Valley way of life, our economy and our families. “We will win this fight. We will change misguided policies that place fish ahead of the well-being of Valley families. Water will flow to our Valley. Jobs will return, and our economy will recover," Costa said. "At the end of the day, this is about our local economy and the food we grow to feed our country. Do we want to be dependent upon Asia and South America for food three times more likely to be contaminated than what we grow and process in America? That's what I am fighting for." Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} https://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?f=/c/a/2010/04/02/BAM61COMNS.DTL
04.01.2010	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) today released the following statement after President Obama announced details of an energy plan for the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS): “President Obama’s plan to open up millions of acres to new oil and gas development off our coasts is a step in the right direction. Reducing our dependency on foreign oil and creating new American jobs is critical to getting our economy back on track. Our economic and national security depends on using all of the energy tools in our energy toolbox. I will continue to work with the Administration and all Members of Congress to responsibly expand domestic energy production on the Outer Continental Shelf, while transitioning to greater use of renewable energy and nuclear power.”
04.01.2010	Stands Up For Valley Farmers and Economy Over Water Limitations Washington, D.C. – Congressman Costa (D-Fresno) joined in a bipartisan letter demanding that U.S. Commerce Secretary Gary Locke explain why sport fishermen will be allowed to take an undetermined number of salmon under new California Department of Fish and Game regulations while pumping will be reduced at the federal and state pumps for agriculture beginning on March 31st in order to protect the same fish. The letter was also signed by Congressmen Cardoza (D-Merced) and Radanovich (R-Mariposa). “This double standard is unacceptable,” Costa said. “The Valley is suffering under misguided regulations and flawed science that protect salmon and hurt our farmers, workers, and communities. Now it appears that the agency is not even protecting the fish.” “This is unacceptable and yet another example of farmers bearing the burden of improving the fisheries while actions by interests elsewhere in the state are not taken into account. It is time that all actions that may be harming the fisheries are placed on an equal playing field,” said Cardoza. Said Radanovich, “It is absurd that while Valley agriculture is suffering under the most extreme pumping restrictions to protect the salmon, the Department of Commerce has deemed it acceptable to allow the sport fishermen to catch these same protected salmon. It is time to hold the Agency’s feet to the fire and demand that they put a stop to the injustice of this double standard.” On Monday, March 29th, the operators of the federal CVP Jones Pumping Plant received orders from the Bureau of Reclamation to reduce pumping to the plant’s most minimum level. This low level of pumping is required by the 2009 National Marine Fisheries Service Biological Opinion to protect juvenile salmon. Just three days after this restriction begins, sport fishermen up and down the California coast will be allowed to take an undetermined number of salmon through at least the month of April. In a two-page letter (below) to Secretary Locke, the San Joaquin Valley Congressmen demanded an explanation for the salmon fishing regulations and raised multiple questions about the issue. Last year, Congressmen Costa and Cardoza partnered in passing legislation calling for a study from the National Academy of Sciences that would review two biological opinions that are guiding the state's water system. Costa and Cardoza have both maintained that other stressors – such as pollution and invasive species– must also be considered as having an impact on Delta smelt and salmon. That study is currently underway. However, an initial review announced in mid-March confirmed that in fact other stressors could be affecting the health of the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta. # # # The letter to Secretary Locke reads as follows: March 30, 2010 The Honorable Gary Locke Secretary of Commerce U.S. Department of Commerce 1401 Constitution Ave., NW Washington, DC 20230 RE: Harvest of Federally Listed Salmon Dear Secretary Locke: We are writing on a matter of great concern and urgency. Yesterday, the operators of the federal Central Valley Project Jones Pumping Plant received orders from the Bureau of Reclamation to reduce pumping to the plant’s most minimum level. This unprecedented low level of pumping is required by the 2009 National Marine Fisheries Biological Opinion, ostensibly for the protection of juvenile salmon. This plant and its sister State Water Project Banks Pumping Plant will operate at bare minimum levels for the next 60 days, disrupting water supplies to more than 25 million Californians, thousands of farmers and a multitude of small rural communities that drive production in four of five of the Nation’s top agricultural counties, and over a hundred thousand acres of managed wetlands that are an essential part of the Pacific Flyway. Sadly, this order is not news. What we are confounded by, however, is that just three days after this unprecedented restriction will begin, sport fishermen up and down the California coast will be allowed to take an undetermined number of salmon through at least the month of April. Moreover, the Pacific Fishery Management Council and California Fish and Game Commission are currently considering alternatives to extend the period of take beyond April and to expand the scope of take to include the commercial harvest of these federally protected fish. As representatives of communities being disproportionately impacted by NOAA’s current efforts to protect salmon, we are dismayed to witness the agency impose such severe restrictions on one hand and allow for an undetermined level of salmon take on the other. With this in mind, we would request that your agency provide us with responses to the following: • What federal authorization(s) are being relied upon to allow for this take of listed salmon? • Have you approved catch quotas and landing limits for the 2010 season? If so, what information did you rely upon to establish these limits? • How did you determine that the anticipated level of take is not likely to jeopardize the continued existence of the species? • We are aware of old biological opinions of the harvest of Sacramento winter and Central Valley spring run salmon; have you made a determination that these documents are still relevant to today’s conditions? • What is the relative impact of the level of take by the Central Valley and State Water Projects as compared to the level of take by sport and commercial harvest, respectively? • What actions have been undertaken to ensure that this decision will not impact the Projects? • What other potential impacts of this discretionary action have been identified? • What mitigation has been considered and who will pay the costs? Your agency has imposed stringent limitations upon the state and federal water projects for the protection of salmon. These limitations are having severe and disproportionate impacts upon the people we serve. We are gravely concerned that your actions to allow for the discretionary take of listed salmon will prolong the imposition and magnitude of pumping restrictions that have resulted in so much economic and social turmoil. We request your timely response to these questions before any 2010 salmon harvest is allowed to occur. Sincerely, Jim Costa Dennis Cardoza George Radanovich
03.26.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) today announced that a total of $729,393 has been released to the Housing Authority in the City of Fresno, and Counties of Kings, Kern and Fresno to support tenants of the Housing Choice Voucher program as they find employment and become self-sufficient. Funding was released through the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)’s Family Self Sufficiency Program and was made available by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA). “This funding will increase hiring and economic security in communities across our Valley,” Costa said. “Creating good-paying jobs and growing our economy are my top priorities as I fight to make sure the Valley receives all the resources we need to get back on track.” Fresno City Housing Authority will receive $240,735.00 Fresno County Housing Authority will receive $243,579.00 Kern County Housing Authority will receive $188,412.00 Kings County Housing Authority will receive $56,667.00 Family self-sufficiency (FSS) is a HUD program that encourages communities to develop local strategies to help voucher families obtain employment that will lead to economic independence and self-sufficiency. Public housing agencies (PHAs) work with welfare agencies, schools, businesses, and other local partners to develop a comprehensive program that gives participating FSS family members the skills and experience to enable them to obtain employment that pays a living wage. A separate program, the public housing FSS program, is available for public housing residents. FSS program services may include, but are not limited to: • child care • transportation • education • job training and employment counseling • substance/alcohol abuse treatment or counseling • household skill training • homeownership counseling
03.22.2010	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 Costa:Reform Is About Who Makes The Important Health Care Decisions In Our Country - Patients, Families, and Doctors WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) today issued the following statement regarding the health care reform legislation being considered by the House of Representatives: “After nearly 14 months of thoughtful and passionate debate, there are many opinions on what it means to reform health care. For me, it boils down to this: Who makes the important health care decisions in our country – patients, their families and their doctors, or insurance companies? “With all the rumored and actual changes made to the health care bill, I was not willing to make a final decision on my vote until I saw the actual language in the bill to protect patients from losing their insurance coverage, from having their rates jacked through the ceiling, and from being denied coverage by insurance companies. I was also able to express my concern to the Administration that the implementation of any health care bill must take into account the unique challenges of the Valley’s farmers and seasonal agriculture workers. “Having now seen the actual bill and after reviewing the fine print with constituent groups and health care professionals, I am satisfied that it will take life and death decisions away from the insurance companies and protect patient rights. The bill also ensures that patients and our families can receive essential treatment without fear of bankruptcy. That's what healthcare coverage is supposed to do and is what the final language in the bill accomplishes. For these reasons, I will vote “Yes” on the health care reform legislation being considered by the House of Representatives. “Health care reform is not about Washington. It’s about all the people across our Valley and the 28% uninsured in my Congressional District who are calling for commonsense solutions that will make their lives better. Our work on health care is far from over, but this bill is the first step.” IMPACT ON THE VALLEY Earlier this week, the House Committee on Energy and Commerce released a report on the impact that H.R. 4872 is expected to have on California’s 20th Congressional District, which is made up of over 740,000 residents. The following is a brief list of the findings: • Improve coverage for 246,000 residents with health insurance. • Give tax credits and other assistance to up to 156,000 families and 9,700 small businesses to help them afford coverage. • Improve Medicare for 62,000 beneficiaries, including closing the donut hole. • Extend coverage to 138,000 uninsured residents. • Guarantee that 21,300 residents with pre-existing conditions can obtain coverage. • Protect 1,200 families from bankruptcy due to unaffordable health care costs. • Allow 73,000 young adults to obtain coverage on their parents’ insurance plans. • Provide millions of dollars in new funding for 47 community health centers. • Reduce the cost of uncompensated care for hospitals and other health care providers by $68 million annually. This fiscally responsible bill will also dramatically reduce the deficit and skyrocketing health care costs. The bill cuts the deficit by nearly $1.3 trillion over the next 20 years. In order to get our economy back on track we must bring down our mounting national deficit and lower costs for small businesses. This bill does that while expanding and improving health care coverage for millions of American families.
03.19.2010	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) today issued the following statement regarding the release of the National Academy of Sciences report on water management and Bay Delta health. Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} “Our Valley needs water to survive,” Costa said. “We have made real progress lately, but we can’t win this fight completely until the one-sided and flawed biological opinions being used to cut off our water are revised to reflect what is actually happening in the Delta. For too long, critics of our Valley have pointed fingers at our farmers, workers, and communities for the decline in Delta health. It is time for the science community, along with the Administration, to join me and the people of our Valley in saying, ‘Enough is enough.’” According to the report: “[…] No scientific study has demonstrated that pumping in the south delta is the most important or the only factor accounting for the delta-smelt population decline. Therefore, the multiple other stressors that are affecting fish in the delta environment as well as in the other environments they occupy during their lives must be considered, as well as their comparative importance with respect to the effects of export pumping.” Costa added, “One of the first steps to ensuring an increased and more reliable flow of water to the Valley is to recognize that there are multiple stressors degrading the health of the Delta. I am pleased that the National Academy of Sciences has acknowledged that other factors like nonnative species, runoff, and the dumping of nitrates and ammonia have a large impact on Delta health.” “Flawed policies are endangering our livelihoods and local economy,” Costa said. “I remain confident that we can further increase this year’s supply. I also look forward to reviewing the Academy’s full findings on this critical issue.” On top of the drought crisis, Valley farmers have suffered under devastating water restrictions aimed at protecting Delta fish. Congressman Costa has long said that these restrictions are based on flawed science and that a multiple stressor approach must be taken to restoring the Delta’s health. Most recently, Congressman Costa joined with Congressmen Cardoza and Radanovich to call on the National Marine Fisheries Service and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, as well Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger, to address non-native striped bass that are preying on salmon and Delta smelt.
03.16.2010	Responds To Latest Salazar Water Announcement WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) today issued the following statement regarding Secretary Salazar’s announcement that the Interior Department will be increasing water allocations from the federal Central Valley Project to 25 percent for agricultural service contractors south of the Delta. Combined with the additional 8 to 10 percent of supplemental water the Department said it will obtain through various actions, today’s announcement represents a 35 percent water allocation for Westside Valley farmers and farm communities at normal contracted water rates. “Today’s announcement is welcome news for the Valley and our local economy,” Costa said. “Every additional drop of water we secure is a step forward in our ongoing fight to bring more water to our farmers, farm workers, and farm communities. While the increase is positive news, I want to make it clear that a 35 percent water allocation still falls short of what Valley farmers and communities need to get by. Our Valley’s water district managers have stated that our farmers need a minimum allocation of 40 percent to make it through the year.” Interior’s latest announcement is an increase from the Department’s initial announcement of 5 percent to agricultural service contractors south of the Delta on February 26. Since the current Administration took office, Congressman Costa has taken every opportunity to meet with President Obama and officials from the Department of the Interior to press for an increased water supply for the Valley. “Our fight for a fair and sustainable supply of water this year is far from over,” Costa said. “Timeliness and specific details remain key as farmers need to make decisions for this year’s growing season as soon as possible. After taking our Valley’s message directly to the President and meeting repeatedly with officials from the Interior Department, I am pleased that the Administration increased the Valley’s water supply. The President and the Department of Interior must continue to think outside the box and do whatever it takes to provide at least a 40% water allocation.” Costa also acknowledged the efforts of Secretary Salazar, and expressed appreciation for his colleagues Senator Feinstein, Congressman Cardoza, and Leader Hoyer. “I recognize the efforts of the Interior Department, and appreciate the continued support of Senator Feinstein, Congressman Cardoza, and Leader Hoyer for the Valley” Costa said. “Water for the Valley means jobs and economic opportunity. I will continue to do everything in my power to ensure our Valley has the water we need to get back on track.”
03.12.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – At today’s House Subcommittee on Water and Power hearing, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) criticized the Department of the Interior’s handling of the drought crisis. Addressing Commissioner of the Bureau of Reclamation, Michael Connor, Costa reiterated that the Department has failed to provide sufficient drought relief to the Valley, and must increase the flow of water and aid to the Valley’s farmers, workers, and communities. Excerpts from Costa’s remarks (as prepared) are below. “The San Joaquin Valley is still in a water supply crisis that is devastating our farmers and way of life. Unemployment rates are at record levels, with 44.8% unemployment in Mendota and 39.8% in Delano city. The amount of people out of work is unacceptable, and I am fed up with the Department’s inability to effectively respond to the catastrophic impact the drought and regulatory restrictions are having on our communities. “Time and again, I have joined with the people in my district to fight for more water. However, the Department has not been an effective partner. It’s now more critical than ever for the Department to cut through the red tape and remove the bureaucracy that is crippling our local economy and way of life. Water is the Valley’s lifeblood. It’s time for the Department to step up and address the water crisis with the sense of urgency it deserves.” The hearing marked another step in Rep. Costa’s fight to increase the flow of water to the Valley. Since the start of the 111th Congress, Costa has regularly met with Interior officials and everyone involved in California water to call for immediate and long-term solutions to the drought crisis. In addition, Costa continues to work with his colleagues Congressman Cardoza and Senator Feinstein on measures to bring additional water to the Valley.
03.12.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In a meeting last evening at the White House, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) urged President Obama to increase his commitment to resolving the water crisis that is devastating the San Joaquin Valley. “Once again, I delivered our Valley's message directly to the President: Together, we can overcome this water crisis. But to do so, the Administration must increase our supply of water, and step up their commitment to our farmers, families, and workers. “People across the Valley are hurting and our livelihoods are at stake. As farmland continues to be fallowed and record levels of people remain out of work, I again invited the President to visit our district to see firsthand the devastating impact that water restrictions have had on our Valley. “The Administration can and must provide relief to the people who are suffering under the effects of a drought and years of misguided water regulations. The economic viability and wellbeing of our country is directly tied to a healthy Valley economy. A failure to increase the Valley’s water supply will limit our region’s ability to put food on our nation’s dinner table and hire workers. “I appreciate the President’s time and willingness to speak about the issues facing our district. Increasing the Valley’s water supply will create jobs and opportunity – two goals that the President assured me he shares as we work to lead our country to a new period of economic growth and security.”
03.10.2010	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 Costa: FCI Mendota Means Valley Jobs And Economic Opportunity WASHINGTON, D.C. – In a letter to the House Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) called for additional funding for Federal Correctional Institution (FCI) Mendota. The additional funding, in the amount of $27.4 million, would allow FCI Mendota to purchase needed equipment, hire staff and continue its activation process. “The City of Mendota and the Central Valley have already waited far too long for appropriate funding for the competition and activation of FCI Mendota,” Costa said. “The City of Mendota is suffering from depression-like unemployment numbers and FCI Mendota will bring good jobs to the community and stimulate the local economy. Any further delay in funding would undoubtedly result in more money and jobs lost.” In FY2010, the President’s budget included explicit language identifying $49.4 million in funds that would be directed to FCI Mendota. This appropriation was sufficient to complete the institution, and was intended to do so, but, based on the facility construction schedule, only $22 million could effectively be spent in FY2010, resulting in an outstanding appropriation necessary in FY2011. Clearly it was the intent of the Administration to fund this project to completion, as evidenced by the original budget request. Since the promise of FCI Mendota completion has been made to the community, it is imperative that the committee allocate the balance of these funds to continue timely activation of this facility. The full text of Congressman Costa’s letter is attached or can be viewed below. # # # March 9, 2010 The Honorable Alan B. Mollohan The Honorable Frank R. Wolf Chairman Ranking Member Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, & Science Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, & Science US Capitol, Room H-218 US Capitol, Room H-218 Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Mollohan and Ranking Member Wolf: As your subcommittee prepares to begin work on the Commerce, Justice, Science and related agencies Appropriations Act, I write to ask for an additional $27.4 million to allow Federal Correctional Institution (FCI) Mendota to purchase needed equipment, hire staff and continue its activation process. In FY2010, the President’s budget included explicit language identifying $49.4 million in funds that would be directed to FCI Mendota. This appropriation was sufficient to complete the institution, and was intended to do so, but, based on the facility construction schedule, only $22 million could effectively be spent in FY2010, resulting in an outstanding appropriation necessary in FY2011. Clearly it was the intent of the Administration to fund this project to completion, as evidenced by the original budget request. Since the promise of FCI Mendota completion has been made to the community, I ask the committee allocate the balance of these funds to continue timely activation of this facility. The City of Mendota and the Central Valley have already waited far too long for appropriate funding for the competition and activation of FCI Mendota. The City of Mendota is suffering from depression-like unemployment numbers and FCI Mendota will bring good jobs to the community and stimulate the local economy. Any further delay in funding would undoubtedly result in more money and jobs lost. I am very concerned that any delay will harm the initial functioning of FCI Mendota, and the community of Mendota as they will lose out on the numerous jobs the FCI would bring to our struggling community. It is essential, not only for the City of Mendota, but for the State of California, Bureau of Prisons, and the federal taxpayer, that FCI Mendota receive the necessary $27.4 million for activation before funding is allocated for construction of additional facilities in other regions of the country. Thank you for your past work on this project and your continued support of this vital facility. I very much look forward to hearing from you concerning this issue. Sincerely, JIM COSTA Member of Congress
03.09.2010	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) today announced $150,000 in funding to create jobs and grow the Valley’s economy. The funds were awarded to the California State University, Fresno Foundation by the Department of Commerce to support regional economic development and enhanced entrepreneurship. “I am pleased that the California State University, Fresno Foundation will receive funding to create more jobs and opportunity for Valley residents. These funds will go towards educating business owners and organizations on strategies to thrive and expand in today’s challenging economy. I look forward to seeing the results of this funding as I continue working with everyone in the Valley to get our economy back on track and protect our way of life.” The funds, made possible through the Department of Commerce’s Economic Development Administration (EDA), invest in updating the Regional Jobs Initiative Transition Plan focused on Fresno and the California Partnership for the San Joaquin Valley. The California State University at Fresno will focus applied research on economic cluster development and providing businesses and public organizations with information essential to business development and job creation. In addition, this EDA investment grants the CSU, Fresno Foundation the opportunity to expand outreach assistance to rural areas. The funding also allows the foundation to develop a master plan for higher education in the region, including Kings County.
03.04.2010	v\:* {behavior:url(#default#VML);} o\:* {behavior:url(#default#VML);} w\:* {behavior:url(#default#VML);} .shape {behavior:url(#default#VML);} Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} Washington, D.C.- Congressman Jim Costa ( D-Fresno) released the following statement after passage of H.Res. 1117, a House Resolution commending the California State University system on the occassion of its 50th anniversary. Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} “As an alumnus of CSU, Fresno, I would like to congratulate the California State University system on its 50th anniversary. Since its inception, CSU and its 23 campuses have played a critical role in the educational, economic, and cultural development of California and our nation. In the years ahead, I look forward to continuing my strong support and advocacy of the CSU system as it trains the leaders and entrepreneurs of tomorrow. Costa graduated from California State University, Fresno, in 1974 where he earned a Bachelor's Degree in Political Science.
03.04.2010	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} WASHINGTON, D.C – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) released the following statement today after H. Res. 252, a House resolution recognizing the Armenian Genocide was approved by the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. Approval by the Committee is a key step towards the resolution being considered by the full House of Representatives. Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} “As we approach the 95th anniversary of the start of the Armenian Genocide, I am pleased that members of the Foreign Affairs Committee came together to approve this resolution,” Costa said. “Established history shows that between 1915 and 1923 the Ottoman Empire systematically killed an estimated 1.5 million Armenians and drove hundreds of thousands of others into exile from their ancestral homeland. The Armenian Genocide created a framework for genocide, as similar atrocities continued to occur throughout the 20th century in the Holocaust, Cambodia, Rwanda, Bosnia, and Darfur.” Along with 42 U.S. States, the Armenian Genocide has been officially recognized by more than 20 nations, including 11 NATO allies. As Senators, President Obama, Vice President Biden, and Secretary of State Clinton recognized the Armenian Genocide and called upon Congress to adopt the Armenian Genocide Resolution. “We simply cannot continue our policy of denial regarding the Armenian Genocide,” Costa said. “Silence on this issue runs contrary to our nation’s values and record on human rights. Genocide must never be glossed over and forgotten. As the President has said, the Armenian Genocide is not an allegation, an opinion, or a point of view, but rather a fact supported by an undeniable body of evidence.” Similar resolutions recognizing the Armenian Genocide have passed the Foreign Affairs Committee in 2000, 2005, and 2007. Throughout his career, Congressman Costa has been a strong supporter and advocate for the Armenian community in the San Joaquin Valley and around the world. Costa added, “World leaders, especially the United States, must recognize this genocide and condemn any genocide around the world. I will work to bring this resolution before the full House for a vote. Congress must adopt this resolution recognizing the Armenian Genocide so we can truly say ‘never again.’” Video of Congressman Costa speaking in support of the Armenian Genocide Resolution can be seen Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} here
03.04.2010	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 WASHINGTON, D.C – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) today voted in support of tax cuts that will create jobs and spur economic growth in the Valley. By voting to amend H.R. 2847, the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment (HIRE) Act, Costa backed key improvements to the jobs bill passed by the Senate last week that will strengthen small business, invest in infrastructure, and ensure that the bill is fully paid for. “Along with increasing our water supply, strengthening our economy and getting people back to work are my top priorities,” Costa said. “One of the most effective ways to create and support quality jobs is to offer incentives to our small business owners that encourage them to hire more workers and expand.” The foundation of the bill is a payroll tax exemption that provides businesses with an exemption from Social Security payroll taxes for every worker hired in 2010 who has been unemployed for at least 60 days. The bill also provides an additional $1,000 income tax credit for every new employee retained for 52 weeks. In addition to tax incentives for small businesses, the bill includes extensions of the Highway Trust Fund and the Build America Bonds program, which makes it easier for states to borrow for infrastructure projects such as school construction and energy products. The House also amended the bill to comply with the chamber’s “pay-as-you-go” rules, ensuring that the bill is fully paid for. “I am pleased that both Democrats and Republicans could come together to help strengthen our economy in a fiscally responsible way,” Costa added. “While this bill is no silver bullet or quick fix, the measures passed today are part of our ongoing effort to get the economy back on track.” The Senate passed the bill by a vote of 70-28 on February 24th, 2010. The House changes to H.R. 2847 will now be sent back to the Senate for further consideration.
03.02.2010	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} FRESNO, CA – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) today announced funding to bridge the technological divide and increase economic opportunities in vulnerable and low-income communities in the Valley. The grant, in the amount of $7.25 million, will fund digital literacy training for more than 675,000 individuals, enabling them to make use of key educational, employment, and health resources online. Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} “I am pleased to see that our Valley will receive funding to increase high-speed Internet access,” Costa said. “Grants like this are an investment in both the education and the economic development of our area. I look forward to seeing the results of this funding as more Valley residents gain access to job and educational opportunities, employment training, health information, and other vital services that are available online.” With this investment, the California Emerging Technology Fund (CETF) will coordinate a multifaceted outreach campaign using local partner organizations to disseminate information about broadband training and services to 5 million California residents. The project expects to increase adoption of broadband Internet service among key vulnerable populations by more than 130,000 households. The award will also provide new broadband points of interconnection in the district areas of Hanford and Delano. These will be new broadband “on ramps” for service providers and end users, and will tie in to existing network gateways in Bakersfield and Fresno. In addition to the Valley, the $7.25 million dollar grant will assist people in Los Angeles, Orange County, San Diego, and the Inland Empire in California. Funds were made possible by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.
03.02.2010	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} Named "Centrist" By National Journal Vote Study WASHINGTON, D.C. – A study published by the well-respected National Journal Magazine last week suggests what many Valley residents already know about Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) – that he emphasizes problem-solving over politics. Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} The Journal’s 2009 Vote Ratings issue listed Costa as a “centrist” who is less likely than most Members of Congress to vote along party lines. This is due to both the unique needs of the Valley, and Costa’s independent and balanced approach to legislating. “I came to Washington to represent the people and traditional values of our Valley, not a political party or special interests,” Costa said. “People expect Congress to work together to meet the challenges facing our nation. We can’t do this unless we set aside partisan politics and polarizing tactics.” According to this year’s study, Costa is more conservative than 46.2% of the House of Representatives, and one of the members at the ideological center of the Senate and the House. For its vote study, the National Journal examined 92 specific- and significant- votes cast, as opposed to other publications which often include procedural and non-controversial votes in their studies. “Our district has pulled together to fight those who would limit our water and wreck our economy,” Costa said. “This is not a partisan issue – it is a matter of survival. Representing the Valley is not about politics, it’s about fighting for our way of life.” Copies of the National Journal Vote Study and accompanying article explaining its findings are attached to this release.
02.26.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressmen Jim Costa (D-Fresno) and Dennis Cardoza (D-Merced) issued the following statement regarding the Interior Department’s announcement on agricultural water allocations from the federal Central Valley Project. In announcing this year’s allocation, the Interior Department said it will obtain an additional 8 to 10 percent of water through various actions that have yet to be taken. The Interior Department stated that it was optimistic that the allocations would increase even further assuming normal weather conditions, providing up to a 40-percent allocation. Said Congressman Costa: “I recognize the continuing efforts of Secretary Salazar and his team in addressing the ongoing drought. However, the fact remains that you can’t take a press release to the bank for a loan to start planting crops. This is the problem facing our farmers right now. If the weather cooperates, the possible 40 percent water supply allocation is good news. The big “if” is whether or not the Department of Interior will do everything in their power to provide it.” “I too am hopeful that it will keep raining,” said Cardoza. “However, our farmers need to make planting decisions today, not in May or June. They cannot take 5 percent to the bank and expect to receive financing to plant their crops. The Department believes their hands are tied … as we have long said, that is what happens when biological opinions are not based on sound science and are instead based on laws that put fish above farmers and farm workers.” Congressmen Costa and Cardoza have been working with Senator Dianne Feinstein on an amendment that would ensure a 40 percent water allocation. However, officials from the Interior Department had indicated they would be able to reach that target through administrative measures, rather than through new legislation. After multiple years of drought and regulatory cutbacks, many Valley farmers have said that they will not survive another year with reduced supplies. “Secretary Salazar must recognize that the increase in water supply is worthless if our farmers receive it months from now,” said Costa. “As we speak, farmers are putting plans together for this upcoming growing season. Further delays are unacceptable and will keep our farmers from doing what they do best: putting food on America’s table and creating jobs for some of the hardest working people in the country,” said Costa. Added Cardoza, “We need a minimum guarantee and we will continue to work with the Interior Department to ensure that the additional supply that has been identified will in fact come to fruition in a timely manner.” Both Cardoza and Costa expressed their appreciation for Senator Feinstein’s efforts. “I am grateful for her advocacy and support. The progress we’ve made to date would be impossible without her efforts,” said Cardoza. “I appreciate the efforts and service of Senator Feinstein,” Costa said. “As long as acres of farmland continue to be fallowed and workers remain unemployed, I reserve the right to push the emergency water supply legislation I have been working on with Senator Feinstein and Congressman Cardoza and do whatever it takes to bring more water to the Valley.”
02.25.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D- Fresno) voted in favor of legislation that will repeal the special anti-trust exemption for health insurance firms and medical malpractice insurance companies. The measure would end special treatment for the insurance industry that allows them to fix prices, collude with each other, and set their own markets without fear of being investigated. H.R. 4626, the Health Insurance Industry Fair Competition Act, passed with overwhelming bipartisan support by a vote of 406-19. “Families across the Valley are struggling under the current economy and unacceptable water allocations,” Costa said. "In these tough times, people cannot afford to see their health insurance premiums go up by twenty or thirty percent each year. Insurance companies are recording record profits while Valley residents continue to see their own costs rise. Anthem Blue Cross customers will face a 39% increase this year alone. Anti-trust laws protect our citizens from unfair practices that prevent competition and keep costs high. It is time for the health insurance industry to play by the same rules as nearly every business in our country. I am pleased that Republicans and Democrats could come together to pass legislation that will create a more level playing field in our health care system and lower costs without adding to our national debt.” Under the Health Insurance Industry Fair Competition Act, insurers will no longer be exempt from laws that prevent price fixing, dividing up market territories or bid rigging. In the last 14 years, there have been 400 mergers among health care insurers so that 95% of health insurance markets are “highly concentrated,” which means consumers have little or no choice between insurers. In California, health insurance premiums have more than doubled in the past decade. H.R. 4626 was introduced earlier this month by Rep. Tom Perriello (VA-5) and Rep. Betsy Markey (CO-4).
02.24.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) and Congressman Dennis Cardoza (D-Merced) sent a letter to Department of the Interior Secretary, Ken Salazar, demanding that he maximize water supply allocations for the 2010 irrigation season. Congressman Costa and Congressman Cardoza’s letter is attached and the text can also be viewed below. February 23, 2010 The Honorable Ken Salazar Secretary of the Interior 1849 C Street, N.W.Washington, D.C. 20240 Dear Secretary Salazar, In anticipation of this week’s announcement regarding water supply allocations for the 2010 irrigation season for the San Luis & Delta-Mendota Water Authority, we are writing to demand that you do everything you can to identify every drop of water available for farming in our region of California, this crop year and for 2011 as well. As you are aware, we have initiated countless meetings, phone calls, forums and other means to garner assistance from the Department of the Interior. We have continued to do our part. Your efforts, if meaningful, would provide jobs and reduce depression like unemployment numbers in the San Joaquin Valley and assist in limiting foreclosures that family farms are facing. Now, as our farming community awaits your announcement, the onus is upon you to demonstrate that you have explored every single possibility to provide additional, affordable water to our communities to help sustain this critical part of our economy through this time of crisis. Sincerely, Dennis Cardoza Sincerely, Jim Costa
02.22.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Kern County was awarded a $100,000 grant for a solar installation training program for adult farm workers. The funds were awarded by the US Department of Labor through the Green Capacity Building Grant program. “Federal grants to help our Valley’s work force obtain new skills are vital in a tough economy,” Costa said. “Kern County is already a state leader in solar technology, and I know these funds will help create new jobs in our Valley.” The Green Capacity Building grant program is intended to build the green training capacity of current Department of Labor grantees. Through these grants, the Employment and Training Administration will help individuals acquire the skills needed to enter and advance in green industries and occupations. Grantees will provide education and training in the skills and competencies that are needed in green industries and occupations.
02.19.2010	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} Costa Tells Chairwoman Napolitano That Potential Senate Amendment Is Vital To Valley Families And Workers Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} FRESNO, CA- Yesterday, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) and Congressman Dennis Cardoza (D-Merced) sent a letter to Chairwoman of the Water and Power Subcommittee, Grace Napolitano, urging her support of the proposed Emergency Temporary Water Supply Legislation. Costa has been working with Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Congressman Cardoza and local agriculture and water groups on an amendment to increase the amount of water allocated to Valley farms for the next two years. If successful, it will benefit California’s economy and save tens of thousands of jobs in the San Joaquin Valley. Chairwoman Napolitano’s letter is attached. Congressman Costa and Congressman Cardoza’s letter can be viewed here.
02.19.2010	Costa: Delays Add To Uncertainty Experienced By Farmers And Further Exasperates An Already Serious Situation FRESNO, CA- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) and Congressman Dennis Cardoza (D-Merced) sent a letter to Department of the Interior Secretary, Ken Salazar, demanding that the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation announce irrigation water supply allocations for the 2010 irrigation season as soon as possible, preferably by Monday, February 22, 2010. Historically, the Bureau has announced allocations by February 20th, marking the beginning of a new irrigation season. With Valley farmers, farm workers, and the economy of the San Joaquin Valley already struggling under the weight of misguided Biological Opinions and other regulatory decisions, it is imperative that the Bureau announce the water supply allocations as soon as possible. Congressman Costa and Congressman Cardoza’s letter can be viewed here .
02.12.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – "Today's decision by Judge Wanger to grant a temporary restraining order on the salmon restrictions will allow the state and federal pumps to return to maximum capacity during a critical time period where useable flows can be captured, not wasted. This is indeed great news for our Valley's farms and economy. I have said time and again this biological opinion is flawed, has not helped the fish, and has dealt a crushing blow to the lives of very real people, costing our residents their livelihoods, lifestyles and their hope for their children. It is important that we continue in the days ahead to press forward to ensure our farms and farm communities continue to receive all the needed supplies of water available, even after this injunction expires."
02.12.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following yesterday’s press conference held by Kings County officials regarding health concerns in Kettleman City, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) made the following statement. “We all have a responsibility to the residents of Kettleman City regarding recent health concerns that need to be addressed. My staff attended yesterday’s press conference and shared with me that Kings County is going to take the lead to ensure the safety of those living in the area. I will continue to partner with state, local and federal officials to fully investigate the cause of these tragic health issues and to provide as much support as possible from my colleagues in Congress for the people of Kings County and our constituents in Kettleman City.”
02.12.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) said today that months of work to ‘turn on the pumps’ will soon hit center stage with a potential Senate amendment to significantly increase water supplies to Valley farmers for the next two years. Costa has been working with Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Congressman Dennis Cardoza (D-Merced) and local agriculture and water groups on an amendment to increase the amount of water allocated to Valley farms for the next two years. If successful, it will save tens of thousands of jobs in the San Joaquin Valley. “With current snow levels at 130% above average, it is unacceptable and unfair that certain regions of California will receive a full allocation of their water supply and the Westside of the San Joaquin Valley, which I have the honor of representing, would be limited to a devastating 10% allocation of water,” Costa said. “This region is home to some of the most productive agricultural lands in the country, and yet for 18 months, the area has suffered from farmers losing their land and unemployment numbers that are higher now than during the peak of the Great Depression. Unfortunately, this Administration has demonstrated little flexibility to provide short-term water to those most impacted.” “During this drought, I have met with everyone I could to get us closer to real solutions. I have protested the faulty ‘science’ used as a rationale to cut off our water and have testified against misguided policies that protect a tiny fish endangered by things far greater and unrelated to water pumping. Most importantly, I have worked to form a bipartisan coalition to get us more water. This amendment is the product of that work,” Costa continued. This amendment, if successful, will improve water allocations from less than 10% to 40% for the next two years. This is a percentage indicated by affected water agencies as a minimum to keep Westside agriculture alive. “My family farmed in the Valley for generations. Water was our lifeblood. I first ran for office in part because I knew that without enough water, nothing in our Valley could survive – not crops, not our economy, not our way of life,” Costa said. “Our local economy is being crippled by flawed policies and bad science used to protect fish in the Delta. The lack of water has led to Depression-level unemployment without doing anything to save the Smelt or the salmon. Our amendment will give our Valley enough water over the next two years to run their farms, employ the hardest working people in the world and bring stabilization back to our economy,” Costa said.
02.12.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Kern Community College District was awarded a $2,768,572 grant to train unemployed, dislocated and incumbent workers for technician and construction employment in the renewable energy industry. The grant was awarded by the United States Department of Labor through the Health Care Sector and Other High Growth and Emerging Industries grant program. These funds were authorized in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. “Renewable energy is an up-and-coming industry in our Valley, as we are starting to see more solar and wind energy facilities being developed in Kern County. Investments made to train people in this industry will help create new jobs and help our local economy,” Costa said. “I’m thrilled to see these funds allocated to Kern Community College District, so Valley residents can learn new skills or advance careers.” Participants will complete training in three renewable energy industry occupations that include: utility worker, wind technician, and solar technician. The project will provide handsâ€on industry training through classroom training, on-the-job training/work experience, and occupational-specific group field training experiences with local employers. The grantee will train 600 participants and place 565 utility, wind, and solar technicians in careers.
02.04.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Fresno State will be receiving a $349,560 federal grant for their animal growth and nutrient utilization program. This grant was announced by USDA’s National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA), and funds will be used to study animal health and nutrition. California’s total livestock and livestock product cash receipts reach nearly $11 billion each year. “Our Valley’s livestock and poultry producers account for a large portion of the Valley’s economy,” Costa said. “Producers often have to battle diseases which could devastate their animals, and therefore their livelihood. Fresno State’s agriculture programs are some of the best in the nation, educating tomorrow’s farmers with innovative water management techniques, advances in viticulture, and agri-business strategies. The grant that Fresno State is receiving will help our Valley’s animal agriculture industry and lead to safer products in our grocery stores.” Animal programs at NIFA address several critical issues, including children’s health, food safety, international food security, and environmental protection. They help reduce childhood obesity and improving human nutrition by providing higher quality sources of animal protein with reduced fat contents while making efforts to reduce the dependency of the feeding and use of antibiotics and hormones to domestic animals. The programs also work to ensure a safer food supply by targeting the reduction in pre-harvest food borne pathogens. Furthermore, they contribute significantly to international food security by supporting research to reduce the incidence of diseases in animals and improving the production efficiency of agriculturally important animals.
02.04.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Subcommittee on Water and Power held a legislative hearing on H.R. 4225, a bill authored by Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) and Congressman Dennis Cardoza (D-Merced) which would provide immediate funding for water projects in California to help bring water to the Valley. Today’s hearing sets the stage for the bill to move through committee and onto the House floor for a vote. “Fighting for water for our Valley and for our economy are the most important issues for me,” Costa said. “This legislation will allow important water projects to come online faster and will create construction jobs for our Valley. It’s a double win.” “Our Valley’s farms cannot exist on a 10% allocation this year. It’s unacceptable. If we are at 117% of snowpack in the Sierra, and to give our farmers a 10% allocation is nonsensical and unexplainable. Our farmers and farm workers need to be put back to work to grow the best food and fiber in America,” Costa said. H.R. 4225 expedites the federal government’s ability to build needed water projects in the San Joaquin Valley by lowering or eliminating required matching funds provided by state or local government. Any area of California that has been designated a disaster area by the state Governor during calendar year 2009 will be eligible. Also, any part of the state that has been identified by the U.S. Drought Monitor in the last 24 months as experiencing severe, extreme or exceptional drought will qualify. The Secretary may use funds provided in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 or funds appropriated by Congress through fiscal year 2012 for any required non-Federal share of project already funded by the federal government and are located in California. In order to qualify, projects will need to meet at least one of three criteria. â— It would need to be previously identified as a project that makes progress toward creating a more reliable water supply in California and restore the Delta. â— Increase water management flexibility. â— Reduce impacts on environmental resources from water projects operated by the State Department of Water Resources, State Department of Fish and Game, Bureau of Reclamation, and US Fish and Wildlife Service.
01.28.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Following President Barack Obama’s State of the Union address Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) released the following statement. “I will do everything I can to help President Obama meet the challenges facing our nation in a bipartisan fashion. However, the President made no mention of the two most serious issues affecting our Valley’s economy: water and housing. “Unbalanced federal regulations and reliance on faulty science have led to extreme water cuts which, in turn, have hurt our local economy and made our housing crisis worse. “What we need to spur growth and prosperity among all economic segments of our Valley are policies that offer a steady and reliable supply of water to spur job creation and help stem the tide of foreclosures. “Our economy depends on steady water allocations. The livelihood and future of Valley residents are at stake. I was hoping to hear the President deal with those issues in his speech and unfortunately he did not. ”
01.27.2010	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following yesterday’s announcement from the United States Department of the Interior that 350,000 to 400,000 acre feet of water will be made available for the upcoming growing season, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) made the following statement. Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} “Secretary Salazar’s announcement yesterday suggests that he and the Department of the Interior are either out of touch with reality, completely misinformed, or trying to dupe the Valley. Our economy depends on fair water allocations and I am angry and frustrated because the people of the San Joaquin Valley deserve far better from this Administration. “President Obama has made no attempt to use his emergency executive powers to save our Valley’s economy and the farm communities from the drought caused by his Administration’s excessive regulations. Those most at risk by this announcement, our farmers, farm workers and farm communities, are some of the very people President Obama is reaching out to in the State of the Union tonight. “At best, the announcement is helpful for planning purposes, but to claim somehow that this is additional water or more than what is already owed to the water users is at best a misstating of the facts, and at worst a falsehood. “I have been working with the Administration since last year to convince them to back off of the regulations and reject the faulty science that is leading to extreme water cuts and severe local hardship. The Administration just does not seem to get it. “The people of the San Joaquin Valley have seen President Obama spend more time being on the ‘Jay Leno Show’ than he has working on our water crisis in California. They are losing hope and faith that the Obama Administration truly cares, and sadly, so am I.”
01.26.2010	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Cities of San Joaquin, Tranquility and other rural West Fresno County towns will be seeing an expansion of broadband Internet connections thanks to a combined federal grant and loan of $5,483,010 announced today. It will provide access to approximately 1,500 households, local businesses and other institutions in West Fresno County. Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} “Expanding broadband to rural communities is a win for the local economy, small businesses and families in rural Fresno County,” Costa said. “It is estimated that nearly 80 jobs will be created to build, support, manage and install the new infrastructure. Also, small businesses on the West Side will have greater and more dependable access to the Internet to solicit business from around the region and across the country. I am looking forward to seeing the results of this grant.” The funds were awarded to Audeamus, a wholly owned subsidiary of Sebastian Enterprises, Inc., which is a parent company of Kerman Telephone Company. Audeamus estimates this broadband project will help the unemployment rate in West Fresno County and provide new economic, medical, telemedicine and educational opportunities that quality broadband access makes possible. Funds were made possible by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to help bring broadband services to rural and un-served and underserved communities across the nation.
01.21.2010	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following the death of former Association of California Water Agencies Executive Director Steve Hall, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) made the following statement. Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} “Steve Hall was one of California’s true leaders on water issues. Even more importantly, he cared deeply about his family, friends and the people of California. For all of us who knew him, he was a role model for how we should live, as Steve lived his life to the fullest. “For years, I had the good fortune of working with him in Sacramento, and more recently in Washington, DC, to solve water problems on behalf of the people of California. I can say without reservation Steve was listened to and respected by all of the policy makers he interacted with. I will miss him, but will always remember him fondly. “His courageous battle with ALS was fought with the same passion and tenacity as every legislative pursuit we endeavored. Steve, our thoughts and prayers are with you and your family.”
01.20.2010	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} WASHINGTON, D.C. – California agriculture received $13,390,615 in federal money to support plant pest and disease management. Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) fought for increases in these funds during the 2008 Farm Bill debate. Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} “California agriculture is nearly a $40 billion business, with some of the top producing counties in the nation located right here in our Valley,” Costa said. “Federal investment in protecting our crops against harmful pests is vital to ensure a vibrant agriculture economy. Early detection and inception are key to catching pests and disease before they become wide-spread- which is both devastating to our growers and makes the pests more costly to eradicate in the long run.” Pest and disease management has been a high priority for Congressman Costa. Prior to passage of the 2008 Farm Bill, Costa introduced legislation (HR667) to improve pest and disease management, much of which was incorporated into Section 10201 of the Farm Bill. This section directs the Secretary of Agriculture to make funds available to help implement pest and disease management programs at the Department of Agriculture. USDA’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) is charged with executing this section. Approximately $45 million was appropriated to Section 10201 to protect American agriculture. Below is a list of programs in California that received funding: â— California Expanded Pest Detection System: $6,094,198 â— Grape Commodity/Lobesia botrana survey: $332,411 â— PPV Survey: $177,286 â— National Honeybee Survey: $55,402 â— California Dog Teams for Domestic Inspection: $3,105,501 â— California Lab Infrastructure: $221,607 â— NORSDUC – 2nd year, Research on New/Emerging Pests of Ornamentals: $554,018 â— BMPs for Phytophtora ramorum: $44,321 â— Nursery Virus Certification Pilot Grape: $38,781 â— Fruit flies – California: $2,770,090 These projects build and preserve critical plant health safeguarding initiatives across America. Funding will be provided to more than 50 cooperators including state departments of agriculture, universities, nonprofit organizations and USDA agencies in support of over 200 projects. These state, regional, and national projects will support the Farm Bill goals of enhancing early plant pest detection and surveillance, threat identification and mitigation and safeguarding nursery production. The resulting plan includes projects that will enhance plant pest and disease analysis and survey, strengthen pest identification and technology, safeguard nursery production and increase related public outreach and education about these issues. Projects include survey for pests along known risk pathways, risk assessment collaboration with states, national honeybee surveys, research on plant pest threats in the Caribbean, new diagnostic tools for plant pests and diseases, nursery audit training for state officials and outreach to help prevent the spread of invasive pests, among many others. USDA estimates that there may be up to 400 jobs created or supported as a result of this funding.
01.14.2010	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} WASHINGTON, D.C. – West Hills Community College was awarded a $3 million grant for green technology job training and curriculum. The grant was awarded by the United States Department of Labor through the Pathway Out of Poverty grant program. Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} “Green technology, like solar farming or energy efficient construction, is an up-and-coming industry in our Valley. Investments made to train people in this industry will help create new jobs and help our local economy,” Costa said. “I’m thrilled to see these funds allocated to West Hills Community College, where Valley residents can learn new skills or advance careers,” “These ‘Pathways Out of Poverty’ grants will help workers in disadvantaged communities gain access to the good, safe and prosperous jobs of the 21st Century green economy,” said Secretary of Labor Hilda L. Solis. “Green jobs present tremendous opportunities for people who have the core skills and competencies needed in such well-paying and rapidly growing industries as energy efficiency and renewable energy.” The Department of Labor’s Pathways Out of Poverty grants will integrate training and supportive services into cohesive programs that will help targeted populations find pathways out of poverty and into economic self-sufficiency through employment in energy efficiency and renewable energy industries. Despite the economic downturn, these green industries present many potential opportunities for individuals to learn new skills and competencies, gain employment and advance along career pathways.
01.07.2010	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following a number of United States Department of Agriculture’s announcements that Valley people will be serving in critical positions within the agency, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) made the following statement. Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} “Today’s announcement of several Californians being appointed to advisory positions at the U.S. Department of Agriculture shows that the Secretary of Agriculture recognizes the important role California plays in U.S. agriculture. I have worked with many of the new appointees for years, some for decades, and I am confident their expertise in California agriculture will be a tremendous benefit for our Valley, state and nation’s farm economy. “Secretary Tom Vilsack made a wise choice in selecting Karen Ross of California as his chief of staff. Karen has been in the agriculture business for 30 years as a farmer. She has worked nationally to improve rural economies by promoting on-farm processing, rural electric cooperatives, and she has promoted agri-tourism. Karen has seen all sides of agriculture and will be a major asset to Secretary Vilsack, USDA, and farmers across our nation. “I also applaud Secretary Vilsack for appointing Valley dairyman Ray Souza to the newly-established Dairy Advisory Committee. Ray is one of our Valley’s best and most respected dairy producers, and has always been a strong advocate on behalf of Valley agriculture. His knowledge of California’s dairy industry will be important to the Secretary on the new Dairy Advisory Committee. “Finally, Secretary Vilsack named 8 California agricultural leaders to serve on the Fruit and Vegetable Industry Advisory Committee, several of which are from the San Joaquin Valley. Bill Smittcamp of Wawona Frozen Foods, Vaughn Koligian of Sun-Maid Growers, Lisa McNeece of Grimmway Enterprises, and Dianne Nury of Vie-Del Company will undoubtedly do an excellent job representing Valley agriculture and advising Secretary Vilsack on issues affecting the fruit and vegetable industry.”
12.17.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following today’s announcement from the United States Department of Agriculture on a new Dairy Economic Loss Assistance Payment program, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) released this statement. Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} “Our Valley’s dairy producers are the best in the nation and California has been ground zero for the major meltdown in the industry. I met with Secretary Vilsack in February of this year to discuss the crisis facing our dairy producers. Today’s announcement by USDA to create a new Dairy Economic Loss Assistance Payment (DELAP) program offers almost no viable assistance to our dairy producers. In fact, it’s a slap in the face to every dairy producer in California. California leads our country in dairy production; we produce almost 25% of America’s milk, cheese and cream, yet California will receive approximately 10% of the assistance. The payments most dairy families will receive won’t even cover a month’s feed bill, let alone help dairy producers obtain a new line of credit at the bank. I received assurances that the assistance USDA provided would be distributed fair and equitably. I don’t know a dairyman in my district who believes this is fair for California. “It’s unclear if USDA understands the complexities of California agriculture. I am thoroughly disappointed how USDA designed this program, and I will ensure Secretary Vilsack hears from me and from each and every dairy producer in the San Joaquin Valley.”
12.09.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressmen Jim Costa (D-Fresno) and Dennis Cardoza (D-Merced) introduced a bill that will expedite the federal government’s ability to build needed water projects in the San Joaquin Valley by lowering or eliminating required matching funds provided by state or local government. Any area of California that has been designated a disaster area by the state Governor during calendar year 2009 will be eligible. Also, any part of the state that has been identified by the U.S. Drought Monitor in the last 24 months as experiencing severe, extreme or exceptional drought will qualify. “Fighting for water and improving our local economy are the two most important issues for me, and this legislation tackles both,” Costa said. “First, by waiving or changing the state and local cost-share for water projects, we can build them much faster and save our localities money. Second, immediate infrastructure investment from the federal level will create good construction jobs for our Valley, and immediately put people back to work. It’s a double win for our farms and cities throughout our Valley.” “Valley farmers continue to bear the brunt of misguided policies that blame pumping as the sole reason for the decline of species in the Delta,” said Congressman Cardoza. “As I’ve said many times, we need to look at all the factors in the Delta, get the pumps back on and get water flowing to our farmers. However, until that happens I believe we must also pursue every realistic solution to this problem. This legislation is a practical means of improving our water infrastructure in the Valley, directing federal resources to communities that are in the most need and getting our workforce back on the job.” The Secretary may use funds provided in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 or funds appropriated by Congress through fiscal year 2012 for any required non-Federal share of project already funded by the federal government and are located in California. In order to qualify, projects will need to meet at least one of three criteria. â— It would need to be previously identified as a project that makes progress toward creating a more reliable water supply in California and restore the Delta. â— Increase water management flexibility. â— Reduce impacts on environmental resources from water projects operated by the State Department of Water Resources, State Department of Fish and Game, Bureau of Reclamation, and US Fish and Wildlife Service. “As I have said before, California’s water crisis has been caused by numerous layers of regulations and a lack of rain that hinder vital water movement to our Valley farmers and farm communities. While this legislation is not the ultimate solution, water projects are another critical tool we can use to move, store, and conserve water in our state,” Costa said.
12.03.2009	Costa: President Obama Should Authorize Water Availability For The Growing Season Now, And Invest In Highways and High-Speed Rail WASHINGTON, D.C. – In anticipation of today’s White House jobs summit, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) informed President Obama of several actions he should take to bring immediate economic relief to the San Joaquin Valley. They include bringing water to farm communities and investing in new infrastructure. “Today’s job summit at the White House is important, and I commend the President for holding it, but our Valley needs more than a summit to fix our economy and bring people back to work. We need immediate action. Today I called on President Obama to use all the discretion within his power to ensure our farmers have water for the growing season and to provide investments in our highways and high-speed rail. While not the silver bullet, both actions will put people back to work immediately,” Costa said. “It is my hope that the Obama Administration also includes community bankers in the ongoing economic recovery dialogue. They need to be given the appropriate tools to continue lending to small businesses and consumers. Their participation will be essential to any long term economic growth.” “There is no more important issue to me than our Valley’s economy. The water crisis and a meltdown in the dairy and housing industry have helped created the perfect economic storm,” Costa said. “The jobs summit may be a good forum for sharing ideas with the President, but we need action now.” The text of Costa’s letter is below. To see a PDF of the Congressman's letter, click here. December 3, 2009 The President The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: Today, as the White House convenes its jobs summit and examines ways to speed job growth in a slow-moving economy, please accept my sincere appreciation and best wishes for a successful event. I am pleased to hear that Mayor Ashley Swearengin of Fresno, CA is one of five U.S. mayors invited to participate today, since the region that she and I represent has suffered from severe economic hardships including a crippling drought, a collapse of the dairy market and precipitous drop in the housing market. Mayor Swearengin’s presence is especially timely as she navigates unprecedented fiscal challenges in the city’s operating budget which include employee furloughs, fire station closures and over one hundred employee layoffs. As you are well aware from our prior meetings and my correspondence, California is in the midst of a water supply crisis and likely heading into the fourth consecutive year of a crippling drought. I urge you to keep California’s San Joaquin Valley in the forefront of your economic recovery dialogue. I would be remiss if I did not point out that one way to bring people back to work in the San Joaquin Valley immediately is to use all the discretion within your power under the law to get water flowing this growing season. This action alone would allow tens of thousands of hard-working farmers, farm workers, and farm communities to return to the honest work of putting food on America’s dinner table. Water is the lifeblood of the Valley, and without it, our cities and towns have literally been withering and drying out. Unless Mother Nature intervenes and you take action now to implement short, mid, and long-term solutions to alleviate the crisis, all of California will have to prepare for the devastating impacts of the drought. On Tuesday of this week, the California Department of Water Resources announced its projected allocation for water deliveries to two-thirds of Californians at 5 percent of contracted totals. For your reference, this is the lowest initial allocation in State Water Project history. It is my understanding that the announcement from the Bureau of Reclamation will not be far behind. Mr. President, farmers cannot get bank loans to sustain their businesses with water supply delivery allocations this low. Many communities throughout the Valley are facing unemployment levels that rival any in recent memory – up to forty percent. I believe that every region of California deserves a sustainable water supply, and your direct commitment and leadership is necessary to help with California’s short-term water needs. In addition, I am disappointed that the released list of attendees at your jobs summit today did not include community bankers from a diverse cross-section of the country. As you know, community bankers have continued to lend to consumers and small businesses in communities where the largest banks have closed branches or reduced access to credit. The ability to obtain credit is essential to any sustainable growth in the small business sector, and I urge you to invite community bankers to share their solutions for growth with your administration. The San Joaquin Valley can benefit from additional investments in our highway infrastructure. Just yesterday, House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Jim Oberstar held a press conference with The American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO) regarding infrastructure investment. They identified 120 ready-to-go highway projects in California worth $4.012 billion. Investment in our highways will put people back to work immediately, and improve transit in the San Joaquin Valley. In addition, a renewed focus on high-speed rail would greatly impact the local economy in the San Joaquin Valley. Top economists have indicated that direct investment in infrastructure projects is the best way to create jobs and stimulate the economy. The short-term and long-term economic impacts of a high-speed rail system would be tremendous for California’s economy. Construction of the system is estimated to generate almost 300,000 jobs, and following construction, the system will provide 450,000 permanent jobs in California. These jobs will have a huge ripple effect into other areas of California’s economy such as the service and manufacturing industries. Overall, for every dollar spent on this system, we will see two dollars in return. I urge you and Secretary LaHood to approve California’s Track 2 application for federal high-speed rail funds, and would be happy to join you when this funding is announced next year. Thank you for your consideration of these requests, and I look forward to continue working with your administration to bring jobs and long-term economic growth to California’s San Joaquin Valley. Sincerely, JIM COSTA Member of Congress
12.02.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following the Department of Water Resource’s initial announcement of a 5 percent water allocation for San Joaquin Valley Farmers, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) made the following statement. Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} “This is the worst news our farmers, farm workers and farm communities could have been told today. The water crisis has devastated our local economy and put thousands of Valley residents out of work. For the past 18 months, Congressman Cardoza and I have worked tirelessly to bring relief to our Valley. We have been able to secure funding for twenty-five water projects, pass legislation to ease water transfers, and continue to press for short, mid and long-term solutions to this crisis. Today’s news is unacceptable. We need immediate action from both Governor Schwarzenegger and President Obama to ensure a stable water supply for Valley farms and cities this growing season.”
11.18.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Kern County was awarded a $100,000 grant for a solar installation training program for adult farm workers. The funds were awarded by the US Department of Labor through the Green Capacity Building Grant program. “Federal grants to help our Valley’s work force obtain new skills are vital in a tough economy,” Costa said. “Kern County is already a state leader in solar technology, and I know these funds will help create new jobs in our Valley.” The Green Capacity Building grant program is intended to build the green training capacity of current Department of Labor grantees. Through these grants, the Employment and Training Administration will help individuals acquire the skills needed to enter and advance in green industries and occupations. Grantees will provide education and training in the skills and competencies that are needed in green industries and occupations.
11.09.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Following passage of the Affordable Health Care for America Act, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) released the following statement. “I am voting for HR 3962 because the choice of doing nothing was not an option. During my negotiations to help improve the bill for our Valley, I was able to achieve funding for a medical school in the Valley, with studies at UC Merced and residency in Fresno as well as additional incentives to bring health professionals to our Valley. Increased funding in this bill for programs ranging from nurse training to health career opportunity programs to community health centers and increased reimbursement rate for low-paying Medicaid will go a long way in strengthening our health system in the Valley. “This bill takes steps to end the hidden costs in our current health care systems that are now paid for by all Americans. There are also a number of important measures in the legislation which resolve issues with catastrophic care, allowing for portability, incentives for preventative care and end exclusions for preexisting conditions. “This process is not over though. There are still challenges on cost containment which concern me. I will have a full dialogue with my constituents over the next few months to ensure all the health care needs in the Valley are met. “I will reserve the option to oppose the final version of the bill if cost containment and Valley health care needs are not fully met.”
11.09.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Over the last several months, Congressmen Costa and Cardoza have met with top officials from the White House and the Department of the Interior regarding California’s water crisis. As part of ongoing discussions, the Congressmen have expressed the need for the Obama Administration to take action to address California’s Central Valley water crisis. In conjunction with their recent legislative efforts, the Congressmen have provided the Administration with a list of water-improvement projects and actions that would provide significant relief to San Joaquin Valley farmers, farm workers, and farm communities. In response to these discussions, Interior Secretary Ken Salazar today released the following statement: Salazar’s Statement on Obama Administration Actions To Deal with California Water Crisis WASHINGTON, D.C. – Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar released the following statement on the Obama Administration’s actions to deal with the California Water Crisis: “Today, Governor Schwarzenegger is signing milestone water legislation in Fresno County, one of the counties hardest hit by California's water crisis – a crisis caused by the brutal combination of a three-year drought, the collapse of native fisheries in the Bay Delta, and the fact that California's investments in water conservation and infrastructure have not kept up with its growth. “I would like to take this opportunity to express the federal government's commitment to being a full partner with the state and stakeholders in laying a foundation for California's water future, providing a sustainable water supply for Californians, and helping those hardest hit – including in the San Joaquin Valley. “To that end, I am pleased to announce that the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) National Research Council Governing Board is meeting tomorrow and is expected to approve the request of the Department of the Interior and Department of Commerce for an independent scientific review of key questions relating to the California Bay Delta, and how to both protect the ecosystem and provide a reliable water supply. “Secretary Locke and I are sensitive to the need for operational flexibility in using both the Central Valley and State Water Projects to move water during this critical drought crisis. With tomorrow’s timely action, NAS will be on track to deliver the first of two reports by March 15, 2010. “If approved, the first NAS report will direct particular attention to the water delivery restrictions in the biological opinions and whether there are available alternative actions that would have lesser impacts on water deliveries while still providing equal or greater protection for the species and their designated critical habitat. The NAS report will also look at the extent to which factors other than water pumping (known as “other stressors”) are contributing to the collapse of the Bay Delta ecosystem. “In addition, the Administration is fully committed to funding and moving forward with the construction of the Delta-Mendota Canal/California Aqueduct Intertie, pending the completion of a Record of Decision on the project, which we anticipate within the next 60 days. “The Administration is also continuing to pursue the Two-Gates Fish Protection Demonstration Project through the required permitting processes, on an expedited basis. Other potential projects that could supplement water supplies for the Valley include the Patterson Irrigation District Fish Screen project and related Pipeline Project. The Administration is interested in potentially pursuing both projects, subject to federal and cost share funding constraints. In addition, the Department of the Interior has used Recovery Act funds to help diversify Level 2 and Level 4 refuge supplies, and will look for additional opportunities to continue this diversification effort. The Administration remains committed to working to implement a broad suite of tools to help alleviate the critical water supply and environmental situation in California. As announced in October, the Department of the Interior, the Department of Commerce and other federal agencies are working together under a Memorandum of Understanding that commits the federal government to produce an integrated work plan to address California water issues by December 15. The Administration is also working closely with the state on a variety of important fronts including, in particular, the development of a Bay Delta Conservation Plan. We will continue to pursue all of these efforts, in close tandem with the state and other stakeholders as we address both the short-term and longer-term water needs for California.”
11.05.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The City of Mendota was awarded a $39,325 grant to purchase equipment for the Mendota Police Department. The funds were awarded by USDA Rural Development’s Community Facilities program. “Federal grants for rural communities like Mendota are wise investments and help stimulate the local economy,” Costa said. “These are vital funds for the Mendota Police Department, as needed equipment purchases will be made and improve the outstanding work already done by the policemen and policewomen in Mendota.” The funding released by USDA today helps finance essential community facilities for public use in rural areas. These facilities include childcare centers, hospitals, medical clinics assisted living facilities, and fire, rescues and police stations. Through this program, USDA ensures that these needed facilities are available for rural communities.
11.03.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) joined Congressmen Dennis Cardoza (D-Merced) and George Radanovich (R-Mariposa) to introduce bipartisan legislation that calls for a review of the federal biological opinions that have significantly reduced the amount of water flowing to San Joaquin Valley farmers. “The decision to focus solely on the export of water to the San Joaquin Valley was a wrong and shortsighted decision, and it has devastated the livelihoods of thousands of my constituents,” Congressman Costa said. “For the last 18 months, I have repeatedly said that there is not one single cause for the decline in overall Delta health or the decline in the fisheries. It was a costly failure with no definable benefit toward improving species recovery. This legislation will ensure all environmental factors are taken into account when dealing with species recovery, and not simply put the blame on my farmers, farm workers and the farm communities in our Valley.” Specifically, the legislation calls for a “re-consultation” of the biological opinions on Salmon and Delta Smelt that have resulted in curtailments of water deliveries to the Valley. The biological opinions place unfair blame on Valley farmers and the pumps that deliver their water as the cause for declines in the Delta fish populations. The legislation would require a review of all factors affecting the survival of endangered species in the Delta, rather than simply focusing on cutting back water deliveries to the Valley. “I have consistently maintained that the pumps are not the problem. It is both unfair and illogical to blame our farmers for all of the environmental problems facing the Delta ecosystem,” said Congressman Cardoza. “The simple fact is that there are likely multiple factors contributing to these species’ decline, including pollution and invasive species of predatory fish. It is in the best interest of all of California that we determine what these causes are and establish a comprehensive approach to addressing these issues.” “For almost two years, we have seen environmentalists use questionable science and a tunnel-vision approach to understanding the Delta ecosystem in an effort to curtail San Joaquin Valley agriculture production — something this legislation seeks to fix.” said Congressman Radanovich. “The harsh realities of prioritizing the rights of fish above the rights of people have brought farmers to the brink of extinction during an already difficult economic environment. I’m proud to join my colleagues in an effort to try to correct some of the many fallacies promoted by the current biological opinions that are dramatically reducing Delta water deliveries to hard working Valley families.” Under the legislation, the Commissioner of the Bureau of Reclamation would be required to conduct an analysis of the Delta that would identify and analyze waste water discharges, toxic urban runoff, industrial discharge, major power plant water diversions and discharges, private water diversions and discharges, and invasive species. The legislation further requires that each of the identified factors be quantified and ranked in order of its impact on the survival of the protected Delta fish. To read the complete text of the bill, click here.
10.30.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) voted to boost job creation and stimulate the Valley’s economy by providing small businesses with access to loans and investment dollars they need to expand and grow their operations. The Small Business Financing and Investment Act also includes an amendment drafted by Costa to help Valley small businesses gain business stabilization loans. The legislation now moves on to the Senate for consideration. “This legislation is exactly the kind of common sense approach we need to help Valley small businesses and our local economy,” Costa said. “An amendment I authored was included in the bill that gives priority to small businesses applying for business stabilization loans in cities that have been hit especially hard by high levels of unemployment. This will be a shot-in-the-arm for small business owners in cities like Delano and Mendota. “The bill encourages smaller lenders to participate in programs to help rural and veteran-owned business secure loans, which is exactly what we need in the Valley. Small businesses are the backbone of our Valley’s economy, and this bill is just what the doctor ordered to help our local economy,” Costa said. Overall, the bill will increase loan sizes to better meet the needs of small business. It also includes incentives to encourage local banks to lend to small businesses and makes it easier for entrepreneurs to secure credit. It also creates a new public/private partnership to expand investments in small business start-ups, an important source of job creation.
10.29.2009	The Time Is Now For California To Pass A Water Package Including Storage, Conveyance And Long-Term Water Plans WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) sent a letter to the California State Senate and Assembly urging both chambers take the lead and craft a robust water package to improve California’s broken water system. The text of the letter is below. Please click here to view a copy of the letter. October 29, 2009 The Honorable Darrell Steinberg The Honorable Karen Bass President pro Tempore Speaker California State Senate California State Assembly State Capitol State Capitol Room 205 Room 219 Sacramento, California 95814 Sacramento, California 95814 Re: State Water Legislation Package Dear Senator Steinberg and Speaker Bass: In 1982, I was completing my second term in the California State Assembly when legislation approving the Peripheral Canal that I helped to support and pass was signed into law by Governor Jerry Brown and then failed on a statewide ballot. Since then, the state legislature has had numerous opportunities to find common ground on a long-term solution to fix California’s broken water system. As you may know, I authored and helped to win statewide approval of four water bonds, raising more than $2 billion to improve California’s water system and provide safe, reliable drinking water to our communities. At that time, many of the beneficiaries of these funds pledged to help fix our water system and add to our water supply to meet the demands of a growing population. That support has regrettably remained elusive. Every Governor since Jerry Brown has tried to repair California’s outdated water system. You now have an opportunity change the pattern and make history. It is unfortunate that the San Joaquin Valley has been the only region of California that has had to sacrifice its water for the rest of the state, and with no proven benefits whatsoever to the system as a whole. As you are both well aware, despite the millions of acre-feet of water that has been diverted away from the Valley for environmental and ecosystem restoration purposes, the Delta is arguably in the worst shape it has ever been. The fisheries are still on a rapid decline, possibly to the point of extinction for the Delta smelt; and farmers, farm workers, and farm communities in my District are feeling the devastation of a three year drought and regulatory restrictions for which we should have already been prepared. A comprehensive approach is needed now that secures a sustainably water supply for every region of California, before it is too late and the Valley literally withers and dries out. As a Member of Congress, I have been fighting every day to find short, mid, and long-term solutions to bring more water to our Valley. This includes pressing the Administration in the short-term to use all flexibility and discretion in its power to increase pumping to water users south of the Delta, to approve transfers expeditiously, and to fast-track projects such as Two-Gates and the Intertie, which can facilitate this process and enhance our water supply. In the long-term, we must continue to work on the federal level to modify the Endangered Species Act and provide funding so that infrastructure projects like these can keep moving forward. At the same time, we need to fix the Delta and build more storage capacity. The state must take the lead in these efforts and push for a robust water package that includes funding for storage and conveyance, along with a viable long-term plan to restore our broken plumbing system. Your leadership is desperately needed to ensure that we do not miss another opportunity like we did in 1982. I look forward to seeing decisive action from the state legislature in working to finalize a water package as soon as possible. Thank you for your continued efforts on this issue. Sincerely, JIM COSTA Member of Congress
10.27.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) submitted comments to the Bureau of Reclamation regarding the Two-Gates project. The Bureau of Reclamation released a Draft Environmental Assessment/Finding of No Significant Impact (EA/FONSI) for the proposed Two-Gates project for public review. A public meeting was held in Fresno on October 26, 2009 at 6:30pm. The text of the letter is below. October 26, 2009 Mr. Mario Manzo Bureau of Reclamation 2800 Cottage Way, MP-730 Sacramento, CA 95825 Re: Two-Gate Fish Protection Demonstration Project Dear Mr. Manzo: This statement is to express my strong support for expedited implementation of the Two-Gate Fish Protection Demonstration Project (Two-Gates). As you know, California is in the midst of its third below average rainfall year. While it is acknowledged that a percentage of the shortfall is due to poor hydrologic conditions, the impact of increasing federal restrictions on water supply deliveries that would otherwise have been conveyed to the Westside of the San Joaquin Valley cannot be overstated. At a time when much of the state is receiving at or near normal deliveries, water supply allocations by the State Water Project and the federal Central Valley Project to the two-thirds of California’s population south of the Delta have been respectively only at 40% and 10% of normal. Sadly, the regulatory contributions to our drought crisis continue. Moreover, the immediate impacts of the Delta smelt biological opinion have contributed to the adverse economic impacts on the westside of the Valley. Water supply reductions coupled with an economic downturn has led to unemployment in Valley cities and communities as high as 30% and 40%, with tens of thousands of jobs lost, and approximately 500,000 acres of some of our nation’s most productive farmland fallowed. Of equal concern to the farmers and farmworkers in the 20th Congressional District is the shadow of the salmon, green sturgeon and steelhead biological opinion looming over future water deliveries, and thus their very livelihood. Water is the lifeblood of the Valley. Any short, mid, and/or long-term projects that could lead to water supply reliability for water users south of the Delta will be critical as we find solutions to repair our broken and inadequate water system. The Two-Gates project is an example of a desperately-needed near term tool that can provide for both enhanced water supply benefits and species protection. It is my hope that Reclamation will exert due diligence in holding the respective fish agencies to task to ensure an expedited timeline. This drought, heaven forbid, may continue into a fourth or fifth dry year, and any interim solutions that would provide immediate relief must be implemented expeditiously. Sincerely, JIM COSTA Member of Congress
10.27.2009	BAKERSFIELD, CA – On November 3, 2009, Congressman Jim Costa’s Bakersfield District Staff will hold office hours in Delano. Staff will be available to assist constituents experiencing problems with federal agencies, such as Department of Veterans Affairs, Social Security Administration, and U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. Area residents are also encouraged to stop by and share their comments about issues in Congress. Bilingual staff will be available for Spanish-speaking constituents. “Mobile district office hours are a great way for my staff to help constituents to get any assistance they need in their own home town,” Costa said. “I encourage anyone having difficulty with a federal agency to come speak with my staff next Tuesday.” Representatives will be at the County of Kern Building, 455 Lexington Street at from 10:00am to 1:00pm on Tuesday, November 3, 2009. For more information, please call Costa’s Bakersfield District office at 661-869-1620.
10.16.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C.- An Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant (EECBG) totaling $3,151,300 was awarded to Fresno County today. These funds will help create jobs locally, improve communities’ energy efficiency, and reduce energy use and fossil fuel emissions. “Funding will create new jobs in our Valley and help our local communities use energy in more efficient ways,” Costa said. “I know the grant money will be put to good use. This grant is great news for our local economy in Fresno County,” Activities eligible for EECBG funding include energy audits and building retrofits in the residential and commercial sector, the development and implementation of advanced building codes and inspections, and the creation of financial incentive programs for energy efficiency improvements. The EECBG Program was funded for the first time by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.
10.15.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) voted against the Bay Area Regional Water Recycling Program Expansion Act of 2009 today because it offered no assistance to the water crisis in the San Joaquin Valley. However, bill passed the House by a vote of 241 to 173. Costa spoke on the House Floor today opposing the process which brought the bill to the floor. The speech can be viewed by clicking here. “It is very disappointing to see the House take up and pass a bill for water recycling programs in the Bay Area while people in my district continue to suffer due to a lack of water,” Costa said. “My Valley colleagues tried to offer important amendments to this bill which would have brought some relief to our Valley, but were shut out of the process. Congressman Cardoza gave his best effort in the Rules Committee to see these amendments come to the floor for debate, but was shut out by Democratic leadership. It’s a sad day to see only one part of our state receiving water assistance when hard working people 100 miles away from them are standing in food lines due to water shortages.” “There are much better solutions to bring relief to the farmers, farm workers, and farm communities in my district: reform the Endangered Species Act and institute common sense policies to keep the pumps running. These solutions will not cost the taxpayers a dime and will allow water to flow to the farms that feed our nation and the world,” Costa said.
10.15.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Approximately $16.3 million in federal grant funding will be coming to California to enhance the competitiveness of specialty crops. Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) helped to fight for increased specialty crop funding during the Farm Bill debate in 2008. California received more than four times the amount of the next highest state. “These funds are a triple win for our state, our agriculture industry and our local economy,” Costa said. “Our Valley leads the nation in growing crops like almonds, peaches, and table grapes. Anything we can do which will expand and improve specialty crop production and sales benefits our farms, farm workers and farm communities.” Through the Specialty Crop Block Grant Program, USDA works to increase child and adult nutrition knowledge and consumption of specialty crops; improving efficiency and reducing costs of distribution systems; assisting all entities in the specialty crop distribution chain in developing Good Agricultural, Good Handling and Good Manufacturing practices; investing in specialty crop research; enhancing food safety; developing new and improved specialty crop varieties; eradicating pest and plant health issues; and fostering organic and sustainable production practices.
10.14.2009	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that he is currently eligible to nominate a Congressional Page for the 2010 Spring session of the U.S. House of Representatives Democratic Page Program. Pages have been serving the House of Representatives for nearly two hundred years. Working as a team, Pages assist Members with their legislative duties, deliver correspondence and small packages within the congressional complex, answer phones in the Member cloakrooms, and prepare the House Floor for sessions. “This is an outstanding opportunity for our young leaders to fully immerse themselves in the legislative process,” Costa said. “House Pages play an integral role in the day-to-day activities of the U.S. House of Representatives, providing them with a unique and valuable learning experience.” The session begins January 24, 2010 and concludes on June 4, 2010. Qualified applicants must be at least sixteen years of age prior to the start of the program, must have completed the 10th grade but not started the 12th grade and must be a citizen of the United States. Applicants must also have a 3.0 GPA or higher in their major subjects. While serving the House during the academic year, Pages live in the Page Residence Hall, a few blocks away from the Capitol and attend classes at the House Page School. Interested students living in the State of California should contact Evan in Congressman Costa’s D.C. office, at 202-225-3341, to begin the application process. The application deadline is Wednesday, November 11, 2009. More information is also available on Congressman Costa’s website (www.costa.house.gov) and at https://pageprogram.house.gov.
10.09.2009	WASHINGTON D.C. - The following two bills overwhelmingly passed the US House of Representatives yesterday with bipartisan support. First, the Veterans Health Care Budget Reform and Transparency Act (H.R. 1016) ensures sufficient and predictable veterans funding by authorizing Congress to approve investments in Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) medical care one year in advance. This will provide time for the VA to plan how to deliver the best care to all veterans. Also passed yesterday in the House was the Service Members Home Ownership Tax Act (H.R. 3590) which will make changes to several Recovery Act provisions to ensure that service members will not have to repay the first-time home buyer tax credit if they are ordered to deploy to a different location and, as a result, forced to sell their home within three years of buying it. It also extends for one year, the deadline for taking advantage the first-time homebuyer credit for qualifying service members, so that certain service members stationed overseas can take advantage of the credit when they return. On the battlefield, the military pledges to leave no soldier behind. As a nation, it must be our pledge that when they need our help, we leave no veteran behind. Their service is a testament to the common values of sacrifice, honor, and patriotism we all share.
10.07.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representatives Jim Costa (D-Fresno) and Dennis Cardoza (D-Merced) introduced a bill today that would help ease the effects of severe drought in the Central Valley by facilitating the transfers of up to 300,000 acre-feet of irrigation water. The Water Transfer Facilitation Act of 2009 eases restrictions on the Bureau of Reclamation and would streamline environmental reviews for the giant garter snake. The bill would reduce unnecessary delays in water transfers at a time when Central Valley farmers have been hard hit by a three-year drought. Congressman Costa introduced the bill and Congressman Cardoza was the original cosponsor. Senators Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer were expected to introduce similar legislation in the U.S. Senate today. A similar provision to temporarily authorize water transfers was included in the conference report for the Fiscal Year 2010 Energy & Water appropriations bill. The conference report was adopted by the House last week and will likely be adopted by the Senate this week. Today’s legislation would make the transfer facilitation permanent. “Transferring water between and within counties for water districts is a critical tool to use during periods of drought,” Representative Costa said. “While the best solution would be to have the federal and state pumps fully operational, because we have been unable to modify the Endangered Species Act, this change in the law provides us some relief. This legislation makes permanent the ability to transfer water to our Valley's farms when it is most needed, therefore, allowing our farmers a lifeline to continue to grow crops and help our local economy. More will need to be done to protect the Valley's water, and I will continue that fight.” “I have worked with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for years to include common-sense reforms in the Endangered Species Act. Working on a bipartisan basis, we have tried to get the pumps permanently ‘turned on’ and ensure our Valley farmers have the water they so desperately need to feed our nation. Because it has become abundantly clear this strategy is not working, common sense dictates we need to pursue other workable options like this legislation, which is a significant step forward in providing relief to our growers. As we continue to move ahead, I will pursue every possible, and practical, means of getting water to our growers,” said Representative Cardoza. Specifically, the measure would: • Establish new parameters for San Joaquin Valley water transfers that can be authorized by the Bureau of Reclamation. Previously, the Bureau of Reclamation would not approve water transfers if it was determined that the seller with surplus water could have used the water (i.e., for irrigation or groundwater storage purposes), even if the transfer was proven to have no negative impact on the environment. The legislation introduced today would explicitly grant the Bureau the authority to approve these types of East-West transfers, as long as they meet other minimum environmental regulations. The Bureau of Reclamation estimates that this provision could yield up to 100,000 acre-feet of water transfers per year. • Direct the Interior Department to streamline the giant garter snake environmental review for water transfers from the Sacramento Valley to the San Joaquin Valley by ensuring that they occur on a programmatic basis rather than on a project-by-project basis. This would allow the Bureau of Reclamation to approve North-South water transfers more promptly and ensure that the endangered giant garter snake is sufficiently protected. The Bureau of Reclamation estimates that this provision could yield up to 200,000 acre-feet of water transfers per year. • Direct the Bureau of Reclamation to analyze existing transfers and prepare recommendations on whether there are other ways to facilitate future Central Valley transfers more efficiently. This would include transfers from California state and federal water projects. The legislation is supported by the following water agencies and associations: • Friant Water Users Authority • Delta-Mendota Canal Authority • Glen Colusa Irrigation District • Banta-Carbona Irrigation District • San Joaquin River Exchange Contractors Authority • San Luis Water District • Association of California Water Agencies • Northern California Water Association • Tehama-Colusa Canal Authority • Westlands Water District • Metropolitan Water District • Placer County Water Agency • Conaway Preservation Group • Reclamation District 2035
10.02.2009	Energy and Water Appropriations Conference Includes Costa Amendments to Fund Critical California Water Projects and Ease Regulations to Transfer Water Around The State WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Valley took a step closer to getting additional water supplies today as the U.S. House of Representatives approved proposals offered by Congressmen Jim Costa (D-Fresno) and Dennis Cardoza (D-Merced) designed to increase the availability of water from the San Joaquin-Sacramento Delta to users south of the Delta. “This is an important step forward,” Costa said. “It is an acknowledgement that Congress is aware of the drought crisis in California, particularly in our district, and is hearing our demands to do something about it.” The Costa-Cardoza proposals were contained in amendments to a conference report for the FY 2010 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill voted on today. “We proposed these amendments on behalf of our farmers, farm workers, and farm communities who are at ground zero of the drought. These communities have 30% to 40% unemployment, and have suffered through some of the most difficult situations they have ever faced,” Costa said. “Our proposals are part of our fight for people involved in these communities and for our local economy as a whole,” Costa stated. The two amendments will provide drought relief by funding the Two Gates and Intertie projects designed to deal with environmental restrictions as well as addressing impediments to water transfers. “These amendments are critical during our drought conditions, both those caused by federal regulations and by Mother Nature. The Two Gates and Intertie projects were on the backburner for years, and should have been implemented sooner. However, with this funding, construction will start next year. The water transfer amendment gives the Bureau of Reclamation the needed flexibility to implement these transfers. This year we transferred over 600,000 acre feet of water that was a critical life line. More needs to be done to protect the Valley’s water, and I will continue that fight,” Costa concluded. Costa’s floor statement calling for support of the amendments can be viewed by clicking here. Specifically, the first amendment provides $10 million in increased funding for the California Bay-Delta Restoration Program, which will help fund important water projects such as the Two Gates and the Intertie projects. The second amendment will expedite transfers between certain Central Valley Project contractors within the South Delta Divisions of the Central Valley Project. The amendments, as originally offered by Congressmen Costa and Cardoza allowed the water transfers on a permanent basis. The transfers were limited to two-years during the bill conference. The amendment also directs the Secretary of the Interior to expeditiously revise, finalize and implement the Draft Recovery plan for the Giant Garter Snake. Transfers have often been delayed as a result of the snake. Congressmen Costa and Cardoza, and Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) will soon be introducing a separate bill to make the water transfers permanent.
10.01.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) attended a public meeting with Department of the Interior Secretary Salazar and key Department of the Interior staff on California drought disaster. Following the meeting, Costa released the following statement. “Today’s meeting was helpful, and Secretary Salazar should be commended for holding the meeting, but what has taken the Department of the Interior so long to act? It is clear to me that the Department of the Interior simply does not understand the severity of California’s water crisis. Every day, I listen to Valley farmers and community leaders begging for a solution to the crisis. But, there’s been little action from the Department of the Interior and the Administration. They need to fully realize their responsibilities. The faces I see in the San Joaquin Valley cannot wait for another study; they cannot wait for infrastructure; and they cannot wait on ‘hope’. “It is my wish that today’s announcements constitute an action plan that will begin to make a difference. I have always prided myself on working with all parties to arrive at solutions. The Department of the Interior must now start taking the hard, necessary steps to rectify the inequities of their antiquated policies. “Our state is at a crossroads on water issues, and strategic decisions are needed now. What took the Department of the Interior so long to announce an MOU? This could have been done months ago, at the inception of the Drought Task Force. This natural disaster has been exacerbated by the administration’s failure to use every regulatory tool at their disposal – the federal government has provided relief with other disasters and the failure to do so now is turning our Valley’s drought disaster into the Obama Administration’s Katrina. “The time for action is now! Our Valley has been patient, but already looming on the horizon is next year’s planting season. Will the federal government have the pumps on to provide water during planting season? It’s time to end the bureaucratic red tape: our Valley needs solutions now.”
09.30.2009	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Bakersfield) announced that a US Department of Health and Human Services grant for electronic health record implementation totaling $1,865,625 has been awarded to Clinica Sierra Vista in Bakersfield, CA. Funding was made available through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA). “Quality health care is vital for all of our Valley’s residents,” Costa said “Clinica Sierra Vista serves a large number of Valley residents who are uninsured or underinsured and plays a vital role in our Valley health safety net. I have heard time and again from my constituents throughout my district how important Clinica Sierra Vista is to their families. This grant will allow them to build upon on the world-class care they already provide.” Electronic Health Records are an important tool to improve the quality of health care provided in health centers and improve individual and population health. The grant provides funding to Health Center Controlled Networks, like Clinica Sierra Vista, to implement a fully functioning Electronic Health Record (EHR).
09.28.2009	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Bakersfield) announced that a US Department of Education grant totaling $2,472,170 has been awarded to California State University Bakersfield (CSUB) for the California Partnership for Teacher Quality Programs. Funding was made available through the Teacher Quality Partnership Grants Program “Improving education in our Valley is a top priority for me. Providing money to sharpen teaching skills will lead to smarter students in our classrooms that graduate with the skills to excel in college and in a competitive job market,” Costa said. “This partnership between CSUB, selected state universities and both Kern and Tulare Counties is an ideal way to provide teachers in our Valley with the support they need to continue to improve their teaching quality. These funds are Kern County taxpayer dollars coming back to our Valley to strengthen our schools and universities. I am looking forward to seeing the results of this partnership.” CSUB, California State University, Monterey Bay, Cal Poly, The Tulare Office of Education, and the Kern County Superintendent of Schools with 16 high-need schools within 10 high-need local education agencies proposed the California Partnership for Teacher Quality Program (CCP~TQP). This program will ground teacher quality improvement with a bold vision for reform of teacher education driven by research-bases clinical experiences. Also, the programs will have a continuous clinical core for integrating content preparation with effective, empirically-based instructional strategies that improve student achievement. CCP~TQP will provide a two year induction experience and mentoring for new teachers in partner schools. In addition, new programs in science, math and special education will be developed that have a highly effective pattern of program completion.
09.25.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that a total of $2,502,921 has been awarded to the Housing Authorities of the City of Fresno and Fresno County to make necessary improvements to public housing communities that will specifically address the needs of seniors and persons with disabilities. Funding was released by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development through the Public Housing Capital Fund. These funds were provided through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. “These funds will not only assist our deserving seniors and persons with disabilities, but jumpstart our local economy with good construction jobs for our Valley,” Costa said. “It’s a win for the City, the County, seniors and for the Pacific Gardens and Sanger complexes.” The Housing Authority for the City of Fresno received $1,742,921 for the Pacific Gardens Complex and the Housing Authority of Fresno County received $760,000 for the Sanger Elderly/Wedgewood complex. These awards will give the housing authorities the funding necessary to modify existing public housing units to make them fully accessible or to convert them to be used as space for service provision for seniors and persons with disabilities, thereby helping them to live independently. Housing authorities can also use this funding to improve community facilities to make such spaces accessible and to provide additional space for supportive services targeted to these groups.
09.21.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Bakersfield) announced that a total of $1,350,000 has been awarded to the Housing Authority of Kern County to fund a “green” public housing transformation project at the Little Village. Kern County Housing Authority is only one of three housing authorities to have been awarded in the Western United States out of the 36 selected nationwide under this funding and the only housing authority in California to be selected. Funding was released by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development through the Public Housing Capital Fund. These funds were provided through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. “This is great news for the Kern County Housing Authority,” Costa said. “Rehabilitating public housing, to ultimately create a safer and more energy efficient building, is a sound investment of federal dollars. Making these improvements today will save money on bigger maintenance projects down the road.” “We are pleased to have been awarded these funds to modernize our Little Village Development to become more energy-efficient and to allow us to create more livable and sustainable neighborhood. We all need to be more sensitive and aware that our environmental resources need to be protected. Through this funding, the Housing Authority of the County of Kern will also create "green" jobs and generate energy savings for our residents,” Max Bacerra said. Bacerra is the Chairman of the Housing Authority of the County of Kern Board. These funds are specifically designated for the creation of energy efficient communities through substantial rehabilitation or new construction of public housing developments. Some activities include, but are not limited to, development of connections to neighborhoods and green spaces; site improvements that provide surface water management techniques, water conservation through the use of water-conserving appliances, and use of renewable energy resources.
09.10.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Following the speech President Barack Obama gave before a joint session of Congress, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) released the following statement. “Valley residents needed to hear President Obama’s speech tonight to know exactly how he wants to reform our health care system. The decisions that we make here in Washington will impact Valley small business owners, farmers and families. Like the President, I believe we can all agree that the health care system is broken and needs repair. All Americans, even those with the best health insurance, can and do face untenable health costs as a result of an illness. For health reform legislation to be successful, at a minimum, four key elements must be addressed. These are catastrophic care, portability, pre-existing conditions and preventive measures. I am happy the President wants to end the practice of denying coverage for pre-existing conditions and will require insurance companies to cover preventative care. “However, any health care bill that is passed must also improve our Valley’s health care services in rural areas, help develop a medical school at UC Merced, and attract and retain highly qualified general practitioners and specialized physicians. Secondly, the non-partisan Congressional budget analysts need to identify significant savings nationally and greater benefits for people in my district. “I am not opposed to health care reform, but I am opposed to provisions in HR 3200. It is simply the wrong vehicle to reform the current system. One federal program that touches more of my constituents than any other program is Social Security. President Franklin Roosevelt’s idea started small, and over time was expanded to more and more Americans. Like Social Security, I also prefer a plan that is put into place in stages, rather than trying to implement such a massive effort all at once.”
09.09.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Bakersfield) announced that a total of $3,090,700 has been awarded to the City of Bakersfield and Kern County to help communities improve their energy efficiency, reduce their energy use and fossil fuel emissions, and create green jobs locally. The City of Bakersfield received $3,040,700 and Kern County received $50,000. Funding was made available in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act and released by the United States Department of Energy through the Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant (EECBG) program. “Kern County is quickly becoming a national leader in solar energy development,” Costa said. “Renewable energy facilities are springing up throughout Kern County and these facilities have created a number of new jobs, providing a model for others to follow. I know the county and the city will put these timely funds to good use.” Activities eligible for EECBG funding include energy audits and building retrofits in the residential and commercial sector, the development and implementation of advanced building codes and inspections, and the creation of financial incentive programs for energy efficiency improvements. Transparency and accountability are important priorities for the EECBG Program and all Recovery Act projects. Throughout the program’s implementation, DOE will provide strong oversight at the local, state, and tribal level, while emphasizing the need to quickly award funds to help create new jobs and stimulate local economies.
09.01.2009	FRESNO, CA- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that a total of $20,319 has been awarded to the City of Hanford Police Department to purchase needed equipment such as laptops, alcohol testers, cameras, and battery conditioners. Funding was released by the United States Department of Justice through the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program (JAG). “Byrne JAG funding is critical for local law enforcement,” Costa said. “This funding allows our police departments a wide range of flexibility to prevent and control crime on their own terms and conditions. I know that Chief Mestas and his officers will put these dollars to good use in their efforts to fight crime and keep the community of Hanford safe.” The equipment that the Hanford Police Department plans to purchase will improve the level of service and manner in which officers investigate, apprehend and prosecute criminals and crimes that occur within their jurisdiction. The Edward Byrne Memorial JAG Program funding can be used for state and local initiatives, technical assistance, training, personnel, equipment, supplies, contractual support and information systems for criminal justice.
09.01.2009	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that the White House is currently accepting internship applications for the Spring 2010 program. Applications are due by September 20, 2009. This is an outstanding opportunity for our young leaders to fully immerse themselves in the legislative process,” Costa said. “Internships in the House, Senate and White House are key stepping stones for those who want to choose a career of public service. I encourage anyone interested to apply.” The application for the 2010 Spring Internship is now available at www.whitehouse.gov/about/internships, and is due September 20, 2009. The application includes two essays, three letters of recommendation and a resume. Each applicant will be evaluated on three basic qualities: a commitment to public service, demonstration of leadership in the community and dedication to the mission of this Administration. The applicant’s communication, writing and office skills will also be reviewed and considered. An applicant’s GPA is not figured into the final score, and each application is reviewed on a semi-blind basis. If you know of someone who would like to apply, please direct them to this site. If you have any questions, please feel free to e-mail Rachel Haltom at \n This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. " href="mailto: \n This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. "> '); document.write(addy93187); document.write('<\/a>'); //-->\n Rachel_Haltom-Irwin@who.eop.gov '); //--> This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. '); //--> , or reference the White House website at www.whitehouse.gov/about/internships.
09.01.2009	BAKERSFIELD, CA- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Bakersfield) announced that a total of $245,810 has been awarded to the Kern County District Attorney’s Office to reduce forensic DNA sample turnaround time and reduce DNA forensic casework backlogs. Funding was released by the United States Department of Justice through the Forensic DNA Backlog Reduction Program. “This is good news for Kern County,” Costa said. “DNA technology is a vital tool for our prosecutors and law enforcement to prove the innocence or guilt of a suspect. These funds will be used wisely in Kern County to help turn these cases around quickly.” The objective of this program is to assist eligible state and units of local government to reduce forensic DNA sample turnaround time and reduce DNA forensic casework backlogs. These improvements are critical to preventing future DNA backlogs and to helping the criminal justice system use the full potential of DNA technology. Eligible states and units of local government may request funds to increase the capacity of their existing crime laboratories that conduct DNA analysis in order to analyze DNA samples more efficiently and cost effectively.
09.01.2009	BAKERSFIELD, CA- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Bakersfield) announced that a total of $360,000 has been awarded to Greater Bakersfield Legal Assistance, Inc. to strengthen civil and criminal legal assistance programs for adult and youth victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault and stalking who are seeking relief in legal matters as a result of that abuse or violence. Funding was released by the United States Department of Justice through the Legal Assistance for Victims Grant Program. “Domestic violence does not know city, county, state or congressional boundaries,” Costa said. “As co-chairman and co-founder of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus, I know that crime victims need assistance after a violent crime. These are vital funds for the Greater Bakersfield Legal Assistance, Inc. and for crime victims who need their services.” Incorporated in 1968, Greater Bakersfield Legal Assistance provides free comprehensive legal assistance and representation services to indigent residents of Kern County. With this initial grant, GBLA, in collaboration with the Alliance Against Family Violence and Sexual Assault, the Women’s Center, and Alpha House, will establish a “Domestic Violence Unit.” This Domestic Violence Unit will be staffed by one full-time attorney, one full-time bilingual paralegal, and three case managers who will provide civil legal and support services to at least 225 battered women during the course of the grant. The Legal Assistance for Victims Grant (LAV) Program began as a set aside from the STOP Violence Against Women Formula Grants Program and was statutorily created in the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act of 2000. The Office of Violence Against Women funds projects that provide comprehensive legal services either through direct representation and/or victim advocacy which enhances victims’ safety and strengthens their economic security.
08.28.2009	FRESNO, CA- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that a total of $603,054 has been awarded to the City and County of Fresno to supplement and expand ongoing efforts to provide shelter, food and supportive services. Funding was released by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) through the Emergency Food and Shelter National Board Program (EFS). “Our Valley’s economy is hurting, and we are seeing more of our friends and neighbors seek assistance in food lines and local shelters,” Costa said. “I have often said that the economic devastation happening in our Valley is equal to what happened to Louisiana after Hurricane Katrina; however, we cannot see this devastation in flooded streets or ruined homes. We see it on the faces of those who provide our state and nation with food for their dinner table. This is vital funding to help our Valley survive this economic storm.” Other areas receiving these funds were various parishes in Louisiana which were devastated by Hurricane Katrina. Three counties in Michigan, Macomb, Oakland and Wayne, along with the City of Detroit, also received funds. The National Board has reallocated funds at their discretion from Funds Available for Reallocation. The Funds Available for Reallocation come from unexpended funds from prior funding phases, returned funds (unspent by LROs or unresolve compliance problems), unused administrative funds, and limited interest earned. As policy, the National Board reallocates funds at their discretion periodically and as appropriate following common practices they have established. At the August 7, 2009, National Board meeting, the Board heard requests from three areas of the country covering 10 Local Boards. Each area had requested additional funding based upon their unique circumstances. Based upon the requests and the Funds Available for Reallocation, the National Board determined that the use of a per capita rate was equitable in handling the requests from the jurisdictions for the allocation of EFSP funds. On August 11, 2009, the National Board made allocations to the following jurisdictions based upon the per capita rate, the amount for which the jurisdiction/area qualified or the amount requested. The Board decided that jurisdictions/areas would receive the lesser of the amount requested or the amount for which the jurisdiction/area qualified.
08.26.2009	BAKERSFIELD, CA- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Bakersfield) announced that a total of $212,980 has been awarded to Kern County to fund a vertical prosecutor position in the Kern County District Attorney’s Office. Funding was released by the United States Department of Justice through the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program (JAG). “We often overlook the need for prosecuting attorneys when it comes to fighting crime,” Costa said. “More prosecuting attorneys in our courtrooms will allow our justice system to try and prosecute criminals in a swift manner. These funds are timely for Kern County and will be used effectively.” The Deputy District Attorney will be assigned to the gang prosecution unit in order to reduce gang violence and decrease the active participation in gangs. The vertical prosecution strategy emphasizes the assigned attorney will handle the case from beginning to end. Vertical prosecution has shown to improve conviction rates, reduce victim trauma and provide more consistent and appropriate sentencing. The Edward Byrne Memorial JAG Program funding can be used for state and local initiatives, prosecution and court programs, technical assistance, training, personnel, equipment, supplies, contractual support and information systems for criminal justice.
08.20.2009	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that approximately $15,364,192 million has been awarded to water districts in the Valley. The Bureau of Reclamation made Challenge Grant awards throughout California and around the nation. Funding for the Challenge Grant program was made available under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA). “I am pleased that the Bureau of Reclamation awarded these important water projects funds to help our state and our Valley use water in a more efficient manner,” Costa said. “Improving the way our water districts, cities and counties can transfer, store, or pump water is critical in times of drought. These funds will allow infrastructure to be built today which will allow our region to weather periods of drought by conserving water through important projects such as groundwater banking both now and into the future.” The Challenge Grants leverage Federal funding by requiring a 50 percent non-Federal cost-share contribution. Grants are available to States, tribes, irrigation and water districts, and other entities with water or power delivery authority. Typically, these grants are awarded to projects which allow the transfer of water to other users to meet critical needs, increase operational flexibility, and reduce pressure on groundwater aquifers. Delano-Earlimart Irrigation District, Turnipseed Groundwater Bank - Phase II Reclamation ARRA Funding: $1,000,000 Total Project Cost: $2,002,700 The District’s project will expand an 80-acre groundwater bank through installation of additional recovery wells, deepening existing recharge basins, and raising basin levees to improve storage and delivery capability. The purpose for the project is to reduce local and regional water conflicts through groundwater banking and reduce the District's dependency on the Federal Central Valley Project water. The proposed project would improve water reliability to the District, market water for other uses, provide groundwater banking for other districts, and preserve groundwater resources. Lower Tule River Irrigation District, Tule River Intertie Project Reclamation ARRA Funding: $2,143,533 Total Project Cost: $4,287,067 The District’s project will improve 1 mile of existing earthen canal and associated control structures and construct 2.5 miles of new earthen canal and associated control structures, allowing the District to minimize the amount of water lost to seepage and improve flow measurement. The proposed project would make available approximately 16,210 acre feet of water per year for water banking in the area or water marketing to other water users., aiding Federal Central Valley Project users by decreasing competition for surface water. The District derives much of its surface water from the San Joaquin River watershed, an area of significant water conflict, where competition for supplies by urban, agricultural and environmental users is at an all-time high. North Kern Water Storage District, Calloway Canal to Lerdo Canal Intertie Reclamation ARRA Funding: $5,000,000 Total Project Cost: $13,867,515 The District’s project will construct a bi-directional water conveyance connection to enhance the District’s ability to divert and deliver wet-year Federal Central Valley Project water to recharge the underlying groundwater and thereby support groundwater levels. The project is located in the Southern San Joaquin Valley, an area of significant water conflict, where competition for supplies by urban, agricultural and environmental users is at an all-time high. Semitropic-Rosamond Water Bank Authority, Antelope Valley Water Bank Initial Recharge and Recovery Facility Improvement Project Reclamation ARRA Funding: $5,000,000 Total Project Cost: $10,850,000 The Authority’s project will add new facilities to a water bank to provide a mechanism for existing and potential water bank users to buy/sell/lease/exchange water to meet existing and future water requirements. The project includes improvements to an existing recharge basin, development of an expanded delivery system (new pipelines), installation of four new recovery wells, a new recovery basin, new collection and recovery system, and a turnout. The project is located in the Antelope Valley region of southern California. The region is experiencing water crises for numerous reasons including climate change, drought, and a faltering economy. The project aims to address these concerns by creating opportunities for exchange, diversification of water resources, and flexibility and sustainability to current and future users. Semitropic Water Storage District, Pond-Poso Spreading and Recovery Facility Reclamation ARRA Funding: $2,220,659 Total Project Cost: $8,672,372 The District’s project will complete the District's spreading works (recharge facilities), which will add up to 65,000 acre-ft per year of direct recharge and 66,000 acre-ft of recovery capacity from the District's groundwater bank. Work includes construction of recharge ponds and ditches, interbasin structures, pumping plant, 15 wells, 11 casing path wells and 6 shallow wells. Currently, Semitropic operates a Groundwater Bank, providing long term storage of water for use in times of need. This project is located in the Poso Creek region of California.
08.18.2009	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Bakersfield) announced that a total of $31,924 has been awarded to the City of Delano to support crime prevention and education programs, as well as planning, evaluation, and technology improvement programs. Funding was released by the United States Department of Justice through the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program (JAG). “Byrne JAG funding is critical for our local law enforcement offices,” Costa said. “Funding allows our police departments a wide range of flexibility to prevent and control crime on their own terms and conditions. I know the City of Delano will use these federal dollars wisely.” The City of Delano, along with the Delano Police Department and the Delano Corrections Department has a goal of enhancing the police department’s crime prevention program by purchasing materials, brochures, community awards and promotional items for officers to use at community events. Increased presence at community events and the ability to provide give-aways enhances officer relationships with the community. Their second goal is to provide essential safety items for police officers and correctional officers via the purchase of communications devices, handheld radios and Tasers. The Edward Byrne Memorial JAG Program funding can be used for state and local initiatives, technical assistance, training, personnel, equipment, supplies, contractual support and information systems for criminal justice.
08.03.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that a grant of $2,480,759 has been awarded to Kings Community Action Organization in Hanford, CA for Head Start and Early Head Start Program. These funds are being awarded through the Department of Health and Human Services Head Start program title, and will be used to fund and make improvements to the Head Start program in Hanford. Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} “Head Start is a vital part of early education for our young people,” said Costa. “These funds ensure that another group of children can prepare themselves for kindergarten next fall, and will provide families with health and support services as well.” Head Start provides comprehensive early childhood education and development services to low-income preschool children on a part- or full-day basis. Under current law, Head Start funds are provided directly by HHS to local grantees, which must comply with detailed federal performance standards.
07.31.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Costa: This Is Important Funding Ready To Go Now For Present And Future Periods Of Drought WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that approximately $32,957,000 million has been awarded to water districts and cities south of the Delta. The Bureau of Reclamation identified drought-relief projects throughout California, many in Costa’s district, that will share in $40 million under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA). Water districts and cities south of the Delta received over 80% of the allocated funding. Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} “This is encouraging news for our farmers, farm workers, and residents of our Valley, and part of a continuing effort that we are pushing every day to deal with the short term and interim efforts to bring water to our farm communities during this drought,” Costa said. “Improving the way our water districts, cities and counties can transfer, store, or pump water is critical in times of drought. These funds will allow infrastructure to be built today which will allow our region to weather periods of drought both now and into the future. At our constant urging, the Bureau of Reclamation worked directly with south of the Delta water interests to identify these projects, and I want to thank them for this coordination. I also want to thank Secretary Salazar for releasing these funds.” Costa has been working tirelessly with Department of the Interior Secretary Ken Salazar and the Bureau of Reclamation on California water issues for seven months to bring short and long-term water solutions to California. In late June, Costa was successful in bringing Secretary Salazar to Fresno to hear from farmers, farm workers and Valley residents on the ongoing water challenges. Two weeks ago, Costa was instrumental in providing $10 million in the Energy and Water Appropriations bill for the Intertie and Two-Gates project and an amendment that would allow additional water transfers. This legislation passed the House, and recently was included in the Senate version of the Energy and Water Appropriations bill which passed this week. In addition to ARRA funding for drought, Reclamation and the California Department of Water Resources have created a Drought Water Bank, a measure that will make additional supplies of water obtainable now and in future times of drought or shortage. The Drought Water Bank acquisition team may purchase water from willing sellers upstream of the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta and transfer the water to willing buyers using State Water Project or Central Valley Project facilities. Funding benefits sixteen water and irrigation districts, and will include the installation of temporary pipelines and pumps, drilling and installation of new water wells, well-enhancement projects, and a groundwater monitoring effort. Projects include the following: Westlands Water District, Fresno, CA 93703 Reclamation ARRA Funding: $7,500,000 Funding will be used for two projects within the water district. The projects include enhancement and rehabilitation of five wells and the installation of 15 new wells. The well enhancement and rehabilitation projects will increase the efficiency and yield of the wells to make more water available for irrigation. The additional wells will increase the availability of water for irrigation. Byron Bethany Irrigation District, Byron, CA 94514 Reclamation ARRA Funding: $525,000 Funding will be used for two projects within the water district. The projects include about 1,000 feet of temporary pipeline, temporary lifts pumps, and the installation of a new irrigation well. The pipeline and lift pumps will be used to move water within the district as well as to pump water into the Delta-Mendota Canal. The additional well will increase the availability of water for irrigation. Central California Irrigation District, Los Banos, CA 93635 Reclamation ARRA Funding: $19,000 Funding will be used for a well enhancement project within the water district. The project will clean, develop, and install a pump and motor on an existing well. The well will then be able to move water within the district as well as to pump water to neighboring districts. The well enhancement project will increase the efficiency and yield of the well to make more water available for irrigation. Del Puerto Water District, Patterson, CA 95363 Reclamation ARRA Funding: $4,260,000 Funding will be used for 35 projects within the water district. The projects include about 2.1 miles of temporary pipeline, temporary lifts pumps, well enhancement and rehabilitation projects, and the installation of 25 new wells. The pipelines and lift pumps will be used to move water within the district as well as to pump water into the Delta Mendota Canal. The well enhancement and rehabilitation projects will increase the efficiency and yield of the wells to make more water available for irrigation. The additional wells will increase the availability of water for irrigation. Firebaugh Canal Water District , Mendota, CA 93640 Reclamation ARRA Funding: $475,000 Funding will be used for a water system improvement project within the water district. The project includes approximately 1 mile of temporary pipeline, temporary lifts pumps, flow meters, and water valves. The pipeline and lift pumps will be used to move water within the district as well as to pump water into the Delta-Mendota Canal. The water system improvement project will address the immediate need of additional water within the district’s service area as well as the Delta-Mendota Canal service area and will increase the amount of water available for irrigation. Fresno Slough Water District, Tranquillity, CA 93668 Reclamation ARRA Funding: $305,000 Funding will be used for the installation of a new irrigation well for the district. The well will increase the availability and reliability of irrigation water for the district. Grassland Water District, Los Banos, CA 93635 Reclamation ARRA Funding: $2,098,500 Funding will be used for two projects within the water districts. The projects include enhancement and rehabilitation of existing wells and the installation of new wells. The well enhancement and rehabilitation projects will increase the efficiency and yield of the wells to make more water available for irrigation and for wildlife habitat. The additional wells will increase the availability of water for irrigation and wildlife habitat. Gray Lodge and Pixley Wildlife Refuges, Gridley, CA 95948 and Delano, CA 93216 Reclamation ARRA Funding: $3,164,000 Funding will be used for projects within both refuges. The projects include the installation of up to five new wells. The additional wells will increase the availability of water for better wildlife and wetlands habitat. James Irrigation District, San Joaquin, CA 93660 Reclamation ARRA Funding: $1,604,000 Funding will be used for the installation of four new irrigation wells for the district. The wells will increase the availability and reliability of irrigation water for the district. Mercy Springs Water District, Firebaugh, CA 93622 Reclamation ARRA Funding: $315,000 Funding will be used for the installation of a new irrigation well for the district. The well will increase the availability and reliability of irrigation water for the district. Pacheco Water District, Fresno, CA 93711 Reclamation ARRA Funding: $755,500 Funding will be used for two projects within the water district. The projects include the enhancement and rehabilitation of seven existing wells. The well enhancement and rehabilitation projects will increase the efficiency and yield of the wells to make more water available for irrigation within the district’s service area. The additional wells will increase the availability of water for irrigation. Panoche Water District, Firebaugh, CA 93622 Reclamation ARRA Funding: $2,600,000 Funding will be used for six projects within the water district. The projects include about 2 miles of temporary pipeline, temporary booster pumps, well enhancement and rehabilitation projects, and the installation of five new wells. The pipelines and lift pumps will be used to move water within the district. The well enhancement and rehabilitation projects will increase the efficiency and yield of the wells to make more water available for irrigation. The additional wells will increase the groundwater availability of water for irrigation throughout the district’s service area. San Luis and Delta-Mendota Water Authority, Los Banos, CA 93635 Reclamation ARRA Funding: $2,264,000 Funding will be used for a groundwater monitoring project throughout the San Luis and Delta-Mendota Water Authority service area in coordination with the U.S. Geological Survey. Groundwater wells will be used to document changes in aquifer levels and groundwater quality. Private contractors will be used to install 16 new wells that will be included in the monitoring program. Monitoring will also be conducted for possible land subsidence. The monitoring effort will protect the aquifer from overdraft and alert district member agencies of possible problems associated with groundwater extraction, minimize economic loss for the surrounding community, and preserve employment. San Luis Water District, Los Banos, CA 93635 Reclamation ARRA Funding: $1,450,000 Funding will be used for five projects within the water district. The projects include a well enhancement and rehabilitation project and the installation of four new wells. The well enhancement and rehabilitation project will increase the efficiency and yield of one existing well to make more water available for irrigation. The additional wells will increase the availability of water for irrigation. Tranquillity Irrigation District, Tranquillity, CA 93668 Reclamation ARRA Funding: $612,000 Funding will be used for the installation of a new irrigation well for the district. The well will increase the availability and reliability of irrigation water for the district and for a neighboring district. Tulare Water District, Tulare, CA 93274 Reclamation ARRA Funding: $925,000 Funding will be used for two projects within the water district. The projects include enhancement of 2 and rehabilitation of 26 existing wells. The well enhancement and rehabilitation projects will increase the efficiency and yield of the wells to make more water available for irrigation. Volta Wildlife Area, Los Banos, CA 93635 Reclamation ARRA Funding: $1,570,000 Funding will be used for to develop up to two new wells in the wildlife area. The additional wells will increase the availability of water for better wildlife and wetlands habitat and reduce the overall water demands on the Central Valley Project. West Stanislaus Irrigation District, Westley, CA 95387 Reclamation ARRA Funding: $2,515,000 Funding will be used for 13 projects within the water district. The projects include about 1 mile of temporary pipeline, valves, flow meters, required fittings; well enhancement and rehabilitation on three projects, and the installation of nine new wells. The pipelines will be used to move water within the district as well as to pump water into the Delta-Mendota Canal. The well enhancement and rehabilitation projects will increase the efficiency and yield of the wells to make more water available for irrigation. The additional wells will increase the availability of water for irrigation. The $40 million investment in these projects is part of President Barack Obama’s $1 billion investment of ARRA funding provided by the Department of the Interior for water projects across the West. In April, Secretary Salazar announced $260 million in ARRA funding to address California’s current drought conditions and meet the State’s long-term water supply infrastructure needs. The total funding for California water-related activities under the Interior portion of ARRA is $381 million to expand water supplies, repair aging water infrastructure and address drought mitigation.
07.31.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} Costa: Our Food Safety Laws Have Not Had Reform In More Than Fifty Years Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, the House of Representatives passed HR 2749, the Food Safety Enhancement Act by a bipartisan vote of 283-142. Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) supported the legislation, and was deeply involved in crafting the legislation. The legislation provides several long-overdue changes to our nation’s food safety network to continue to provide the world’s safest food to Americans. “Today’s passage of the Food Safety Enhancement Act is a good first step in modernizing our food safety system. This is still a work in progress, but this progress is long overdue,” Costa said. “While American food still continues to be among the safest in the world, it is not surprising that recent food safety problems have caused Americans to lose confidence in our nation’s ability to keep our food safe. We lack an effective risk-based system which ensures the best management practices and facilitates a strong relationship between federal and state agencies to better prevent and control food safety threats at all levels of food production.” Earlier in the year, Costa introduced the Safe FEAST Act, which would establish new food safety requirements for domestically produced and imported food to identify and prevent potential sources of food-borne illness. Many provisions in Costa’s bill were included in the final version of HR 2749 such as risk-based safety standards for certain raw commodities. Mr. Costa was also instrumental in negotiating several changes to the bill based on concerns raised by the agriculture community, including changes to provisions on traceability, quarantine, records access as well as additional provisions to protect farms. The bill mandates that FDA establish a risk-based system for inspecting food facilities. It also requires all imported foods to meet U.S. safety standards and directs food manufacturing companies to implement a food safety plan to controls hazards. “We establish science-based, risk-based standards for producers and processor both domestically and abroad- to make our food safer. This means ensuring our foreign partners - whether they are growing leafy greens or peppers or producing peanut butter or pot pie - are also meeting the highest safety standards before their products make their way to American tables,” Costa added.
07.31.2009	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) thanked USDA Secretary Tom Vilsack’s for his announcement to increase dairy price support prices, which will provide some relief to dairy farmers as they continue to suffer through this period of historically low milk prices. Vilsack announced that USDA will increase the amount paid for dairy products through the Dairy Product Price Support Program. Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} “Our Valley’s dairy farmers have been struggling to stay in business, and I have been urging Secretary Vilsack to use all of his authority to implement programs to ease this crisis,” Costa said. “Increasing the amount paid for dairy products, along with the implementation of the Dairy Export Incentive Program back in May, are part of the efforts that can help our dairy farmers through this rough time. I want to thank Secretary Vilsack for his recognition of the crisis and his actions to help alleviate the suffering.” The Dairy Price Support Program was authorized in the 2008 Farm Bill and requires USDA to purchase products at minimum prices. Today’s increase will raise the price paid for nonfat dry milk from $0.80 per pound to $0.92 per pound, the price paid for cheddar blocks from $1.13 per pound to $1.31 per pound, and the price of cheddar barrels from $1.10 per pound to $1.28 per pound. This increase in the support price will have an immediate effect upon dairy farmers' bottom line. Costa has been working with Secretary Vilsack and his colleagues on the House Agriculture Committee to find solutions to this crisis. In May, following months of work by Costa and Congressman Dennis Cardoza (D-Atwater), the USDA announced they would implement the Dairy Export Incentive Program (DEIP) to help U.S. dairy exporters compete with prevailing world prices.
07.30.2009	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that a grant of $71,985 has been awarded to Kings Community Action Organization in Hanford, CA. These funds are being awarded through the United States Department of Agriculture Rural Development’s Community Facilities program, which were provided in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. The Rural Development Community Facilities program helps finance essential community facilities for public use in rural areas. “Kings Community Action Organization plays a vital role in Kings County,” Costa said. “These funds allow them to continue to provide world-class services, from child development to energy and housing programs, to the residents in Kings County.” The Kings Community Action Organization has been operating in Kings County for 44 years. Approximately $58.1 million was released by USDA to essential community facilities across the nation. These facilities include child care centers, hospitals, medical clinics, assisted-living facilities, fire and rescue stations, police stations, community centers, public buildings and transportation. Through this program, USDA ensures that such facilities are available to all rural residents.
07.30.2009	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that a grant of $66,667 has been awarded to the Valley Health Team in San Joaquin, CA. These funds are being awarded through the Department of Health and Human Services’ Health Center Cluster program. The Health Center Cluster program helps finance essential community facilities for public use in rural areas. “Rural communities in California are often underserved with medical care, but the Valley Health Team has been providing rural residents in western Fresno County with high-quality service for over thirty years,” Costa said. “This grant will allow them to continue to provide health services for those who need it most.” The Valley Health Team, Inc. was established in 1973 to provide a range of outpatient services to the rural communities in western Fresno County. Over 35 years later, they continue to provide medical care to residents of rural towns regardless of the patients’ ability to pay for the service.
07.28.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman","serif";} Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman","serif";} WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that a total of $11,573,631 million has been awarded to the Cities of Fresno, Huron, Parlier, Sanger and Selma to address the full-time sworn police officer needs in those cities. Funding was released through the US Department of Justice COPS Hiring Recovery Program (CHRP) made available through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA). “Our police departments have been hit hard by the sluggish economy, so these grants could not come at a better time,” Costa said. “We need to ensure our city streets and neighborhoods remain safe, and federal investment in our local police departments is one of the best ways to deter crime.” “I am extremely grateful to the federal government for this grant because it will prevent officers from being laid off and allow us to continue our crime fighting efforts, " Chief Jerry Dyer said. City of Fresno: $10,235,445: 41 Officers Awarded Huron Police Department: $135,944: 1 Officer Awarded Parlier Police Department: $252,554: 1 Officer Awarded Sanger Police Department: $518,954: 2 Officers Awarded City of Selma: $430,734: 2 Officers Awarded CHRP grants will provide 100 percent funding for approved entry-level salaries and benefits for three years for newly-hired, full-time sworn officer positions (including filling existing unfunded vacancies) or for rehired officers who have been laid off, or are scheduled to be laid off on a future date, as a result of local budget cuts. Police departments receiving the grants will then be required to retain the grant funded positions for a fourth year. The funding provides much needed support to state and local government budgets, and will help the nation’s law enforcement agencies add and retain the manpower needed to fight crime more effectively through community policing.
07.28.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman","serif";} WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Bakersfield) announced that a total of $5,683,759 million has been awarded to the police departments in Arvin, Bakersfield and Delano to address the full-time sworn police officer needs in those cities. Funding was released through the US Department of Justice COPS Hiring Recovery Program (CHRP) made available through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA). Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman","serif";} "Our police departments have been hit hard by the sluggish economy, so these grants could not come at a better time,” Costa said. “We need to ensure our city streets and neighborhoods remain safe, and federal investment in our local police departments is one of the best ways to deter crime.” Arvin Police Department: $198,501: 1 Officer Awarded Bakersfield Police Department: $5,062,124: 17 Officers Awarded City of Delano: $423,134: 2 Officers Awarded CHRP grants will provide 100 percent funding for approved entry-level salaries and benefits for three years for newly-hired, full-time sworn officer positions (including filling existing unfunded vacancies) or for rehired officers who have been laid off, or are scheduled to be laid off on a future date, as a result of local budget cuts. Police departments receiving the grants will then be required to retain the grant funded positions for a fourth year. The funding provides much needed support to state and local government budgets, and will help the nation’s law enforcement agencies add and retain the manpower needed to fight crime more effectively through community policing.
07.24.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that a grant of $95,238 has been awarded to Kings Community Action Organization in Hanford, CA for Head Start and Early Head Start Program. These funds are being awarded through the Department of Health and Human Services Head Start program title, which were provided in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} “Head Start is a vital part of early education for our young people,” said Costa. “These funds ensure that another group of children will be prepared for kindergarten next fall, and will provide families with health and support services as well.” The Kings Community Action Organization has been operating in Kings County for 44 years. Head Start provides comprehensive early childhood education and development services to low-income preschool children on a part- or full-day basis. Under current law, Head Start funds are provided directly by HHS to local grantees, which must comply with detailed federal performance standards.
07.22.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Costa: It Is Time To Stop Running Our Nation On A Credit Card And Burdening Future Generations With Our Debts WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives passed HR 2920, the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act (PAYGO) of 2009 by a vote of 265 to 166. Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) is an original co-sponsor of this legislation and supported the legislation during today’s vote on the floor. Overall, the legislation requires offsets for tax cuts or entitlement expansion over five years. The bill now moves onto the Senate for consideration. Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} “When Congress enacted the Budget Enforcement Act in 1990, it was attempting to rein in deficits that the federal government had experienced yearly since 1970,” Costa said. “It is disappointing that the sensible tax policies and investments in smart, pro-growth policies our country achieved from 1990 to 2001 were squandered for a large, unsustainable deficit. I am hopeful this legislation will move quickly in the Senate so we can bring our fiscal house back in order.” HR 2920 ensures lawmakers in Congress make tough choices by requiring any spending increase or tax cut be paid for, rather than pushed on to future generations. Statutory PAYGO would apply to new policies that reduce revenue or expand entitlement spending; it will exempt extensions of current policy on the Alternative Minimum Tax, the estate and middle-class income tax cuts passed in 2001 and 2003, and Medicare payments to doctors. The bill also makes changes to President Obama’s original proposal, due to concerns that were raised. The first notable change deals with extensions of tax cuts and the time period for deficit neutrality. Under the President’s proposal, extension of any of the tax cuts enacted in 2001 and 2003, including those for upper income taxpayers, would not be subject to statutory PAYGO; under the passed House bill, the exemption has been limited to middle-class tax cuts. The House bill also requires any legislation passed by Congress to be deficit neutral over both five and ten years.
07.17.2009	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that a grand total of $4.3 million has been released to the Cities of Fresno, Bakersfield and Kern County to revitalize neighborhoods and create jobs. Funding was released through the Department on Housing and Urban Development’s Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program made available in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. “The release of this funding is spectacular news for our Valley,” Costa said. “These CDBG program funds will help revitalize our communities that have been ravaged by the nationwide recession, the housing crisis, and the drought conditions in our area. In addition, these projects will provide jobs for our Valley residents and help get us back on the path to recovery." The City of Bakersfield will receive $897,462 Kern County will receive $1,357,938 The City of Fresno will receive $2,047,341 The grants awarded today represent over half of the Recovery Act-funded grants available through the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Program, which primarily benefit low- to moderate-income families. CDBG enables state and local governments to undertake a wide range of activities intended to create suitable living environments, provide affordable housing and create economic opportunities. Under the Recovery Act, recipients give priority to prudent responsible that can award contracts through a bidding process within 120 days of the grant agreement. A total of $1 billion will be awarded nationwide by HUD in Recovery Act Community Development Block Grants. Since 1974, CDBG has provided more than $127 billion to state and local governments to target their own community development priorities. The rehabilitation of affordable housing and the construction and improvement of public facilities have traditionally been the largest uses of CDBG funds although the program is also an important catalyst for job growth and business opportunities. Annual CDBG funds are distributed to communities according to statutory formulas based on population, poverty, pre-1940 housing stock, growth lag, and housing overcrowding.
07.17.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Amendments Will Fund Critical California Water Projects And Ease Regulations To Transfer Water Around The State WASHINGTON, D.C. – Earlier in the week, the House of Representatives passed two amendments authored by Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) and Congressman Dennis Cardoza (D-Merced) by voice vote. The two amendments will provide $10 million in funding toward the Intertie and Two-Gates projects, direct the Secretary of the Interior to diversify sources of water for refuges to free up more water for agricultural water users, ease the ability for the state to do inter-county transfers, and expedite a plan to deal with the Giant Garter Snake, which has been an impediment to critical water transfers. The bill was passed today by the House and now moves on to the Senate for consideration. Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} “I am very pleased my colleagues supported these amendments,” Costa said. “Two-Gates, if successfully implemented, will give greater flexibility of the federal and state pumps to operate, thereby supplying water to projects south of the Delta to work as they were intended. During critical times of the year, it would prevent the salmon and smelt from being ingested into the pumps.” Costa continued, “While these are not the silver bullet to fix our water challenges, these fixes are a step in the right direction and part of a continued effort to help address our short and long-term water strategies. For far too long, our farmers and farm workers have been held hostage by the lack of a plan to deal with the Giant Garter Snake and the Bureau’s inflexibility to transfer water within and beyond county lines. We cannot allow endless bureaucracy and misuses of the Endangered Species Act to impede our Valley’s economy. Finally, I want to thank Congressman Cardoza for his assistance with these amendments.” The first amendment reduces the Bureau of Reclamation Commissioner’s Policy and Administration account by $10 million and transfers it to the CALFED account to help speed along the Intertie and Two-Gates projects, in addition to diversifying refuge water supplies, which are currently taken from supplies that would otherwise go to agricultural water users within the Central Valley Project. Costa’s second amendment will allow transfers of water between certain Central Valley Project contractors within the South Delta Divisions of the Central Valley Project. It also directs the Secretary of the Interior to expeditiously revise, finalize and implement the Draft Recovery plan for the Giant Garter Snake.
07.15.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} If Passed By Full House, Amendments Will Fund Critical California Water Projects And Ease Regulations To Transfer Water Around The State Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} WASHINGTON, D.C. – This evening, the House Rules Committee accepted two amendments authored by Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) and Congressman Dennis Cardoza (D-Merced) which will provide $10 million in funding toward the Intertie and Two-Gates projects, direct the Secretary of the Interior to diversify sources of water for refuges to free up more water for agricultural water users, ease the ability for the state to do inter-county transfers, and expedite a plan to deal with the Giant Garter Snake, which has been an impediment to critical water transfers. Costa testified before the Rules Committee on the importance of these two amendments to Valley farmers, farm workers, and the economy. The full House will debate and consider both amendments do the Energy and Water Appropriations bill this Thursday. “The first amendment provides needed funds to help jumpstart two important water projects in California: Intertie and Two-Gates, among other projects,” Costa said. “Our second amendment is a two-pronged approach. It eases our state’s ability to transfer water from county to county. Secondly, it directs the Secretary of the Interior to speed along and implement a plan for the Giant Garter Snake. The lack of plan for the garter snake from the Department of Interior has hamstrung needed water transfers within the state for decades, thus hurting our Valley’s farmers and farm workers.” “We need to find effective ways to solve our water problems in our state,” Costa continued. “First and foremost, that begins with the art of the possible. These amendments are additional progress and part of a continued effort for our Valley. Finally, I want to thank Congressman Cardoza for his work in helping these amendments pass the Rules Committee.” The first amendment reduces the Bureau of Reclamation Commissioner’s Policy and Administration account by $10 million and transfers it to the CALFED account to help speed along the Intertie and Two-Gates projects, in addition to diversifying refuge water supplies, which are currently taken from supplies that would otherwise go to agricultural water users within the Central Valley Project. Costa’s second amendment will allow transfers of water between certain Central Valley Project contractors within the South Delta Divisions of the Central Valley Project. It also directs the Secretary of the Interior to expeditiously revise, finalize and implement the Draft Recovery plan for the Giant Garter Snake.
07.10.2009	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that small, non-farm businesses in Fresno, Kings, Madera, and Tulare Counties are now eligible to apply for low-interest disaster loans from the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA). These loans are to help businesses offset the financial losses caused by the drought in the San Joaquin Valley. Small, non-farm businesses, small agricultural cooperatives and most private, non-profit organizations of any size may qualify for Economic Injury Disaster Loans (EIDLs) of up to $2 million to help meet financial obligations and operating expenses which could have been met had the disaster not occurred. By law, SBA makes EIDLs available when the US Secretary of Agriculture designates an agricultural disaster. Secretary Tom Vilsack recently declared this disaster at the request of Governor Schwarzenegger. Information and application forms are available from SBA’s Customer Service Center by calling 1-800-659-2955, emailing \n This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. " href="mailto: \n This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. "> '); document.write(addy14556); document.write('<\/a>'); //-->\n disastercustomerservice@sba.gov '); //--> This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. '); //--> , visiting SBA’s Web site at www.sba.gov/services/disasterassistance, or contacting Costa’s Fresno district office at 559-495-1620. Hearing impaired individuals may call 1-800-877-8339. The deadline to apply for these loans is February 26, 2010.
07.10.2009	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that a grand total of $8,214,230 million has been released to the Cities of Fresno and Bakersfield and to the Counties of Kern and Fresno to rapidly re-house families who fall into homelessness, or prevent them from becoming homeless in the first place. Funding was released through the Department on Housing and Urban Development (HUD) made available in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. “These short and medium term funds to families on the verge of homelessness are drastically needed in our Valley and I thank Secretary Donovan for releasing these funds,” Costa said. “It’s unfortunate this is a nationwide problem, and it was important for Secretary Donovan to see our housing challenges first hand during his recent trip to the San Joaquin Valley. These funds are an important step to prevent homelessness.” The City of Bakersfield will receive $1,372,351 The City of Fresno will receive $3,130,746 Fresno County will receive $1,634,630 Kern County will receive $2,076,503 HUD’s new Homeless Prevention and Rapid Re-housing Program (HPRP) provides a total of $1.5 billion for communities to provide short- and medium-term rental assistance and services to either prevent individuals and families from becoming homeless or help those who are experiencing homelessness to be quickly re-housed and stabilized. Plans for the remaining grants under this program are still being approved and will be announced in the coming weeks as well. Grants provided under HPRP are not intended to provide long-term support for individuals and families, nor will they afford mortgage assistance to homeowners facing foreclosure. Rather, HPRP offers a variety of short- and medium-term financial assistance to those who would otherwise become homeless, many due to sudden economic crisis. This can include short-term rental assistance (up to three months), medium-term rental assistance (up to 18 months), security deposits, utility deposits, utility payments, moving cost assistance, and hotel vouchers. Payments will not be made directly to households, but only to third parties, such as landlords or utility companies. The program also provides assistance to rapidly re-house persons who are homeless and likely to remain stably housed, whether subsidized or unsubsidized, once the HPRP assistance concludes.
07.10.2009	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that a grand total of $6 million has been released to the San Joaquin Valley Air Pollution Control District to make diesel retrofits on school buses and agricultural equipment. Funding was released through the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) made available in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. “Diesel has undergone major changes in the past few years, and retrofitting clean diesel technologies for older diesel vehicles and equipment is one of the most cost-effective strategies for achieving tangible and immediate air quality benefits,” Costa said. “While not the silver bullet, adding diesel retrofit projects to our Valley’s air quality tool box is just another positive step forward to help keep our air clean.” The San Joaquin Valley APCD was selected for $4 million in funding to install 190 diesel particulate filters on 2001 model year and newer diesel school buses. Through diesel emission reductions, the project is expected to protect the health of children who ride these buses daily. The San Joaquin Valley APCD plans to leverage funds with Proposition 1B Lower Emission School Bus Program funds. They were also selected for $2 million in funding to repower 30 agricultural off-road equipment vehicles with new engines that meet or exceed EPA’s Tier 3 emission standards for non-road diesel engines. The funds are provided under the American Reinvestment and Recovery Act (ARRA) of 2009 National Clean Diesel Funding Assistance Program. Under this funding competition, EPA’s Pacific Southwest Region alone received over 100 grant applications requesting $500 million to help fund clean diesel emissions projects. The awards announced today were chosen to both maximize economic impact and emissions reductions.
07.09.2009	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Bakersfield) announced that a National Institute of Health grant totaling $78,775 has been released to California State University Bakersfield to prepare students for a future in biomedical research. Funding was made available in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. “Advances in medicine have given us the cures for diseases like polio and small pox, as well as medications which have helped extend human life,” Costa said. “We need to continue investments in this type of research for the 21st century, and I am very happy that CSU Bakersfield was awarded this important grant.” "We appreciate greatly this supplemental award which provides much needed additional funding to support our current efforts to increase the number of underrepresented students graduating in the biomedical sciences and better prepare them to enter Ph.D. programs with the intent to pursue careers in biomedical and behavioral research," President Horace Mitchell said. This grant will increase the number of underrepresented students graduating in the biomedical sciences and better prepare them for careers in biomedical and behavioral science research. The National Institute of Health funds biomedical research and research training at more than 3,000 institutions in the fifty states and territories.
07.08.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} WASHINGTON, D.C. – Last night, the House Appropriations Committee unfortunately did not pass an amendment which would have maintained maximum pumping operation in the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta. Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno), working with Congressman Devin Nunes (R-Tulare), urged fellow Democrats on the Committee to support the amendment. Ultimately, the amendment failed in a vote before the full committee by a tally of 25 to 33. “This amendment would have had zero impact on the pocketbook of the American taxpayer,” Costa said. “Prior to the hearing, I spoke with a targeted group of Democratic colleagues that Congressman Nunes, Congressman Cardoza and I agreed would most likely support this amendment. I let them know about the devastation in our small towns and communities due simply to the lack of water. While this amendment would not have been the silver bullet, it would have brought needed water to the farmers and farm workers living in our Valley.” “I want to thank Congressman Nunes for his continued hard work to bring needed relief to our Valley’s farms. He and I both know our water challenges are not a partisan issue. As this session of Congress continues, I will continue to work with the Valley delegation on this issue, as well as offering additional legislative strategies to bring water to our Valley. Finally, I will continue to work with all of my colleagues to develop short and long term water solutions to California,” Costa stated. “The fact that urban water agencies like the Metropolitan Water District and the Santa Clara Water District have joined in lawsuits asking for an injunction on the biological opinion is helpful. Their Congress members need to understand that these biological opinions, if implemented, put their water supply at grave risk,” Costa concluded. The Appropriations Committee was marking-up the Energy and Water Development appropriations bill, which funds civil works projects of the Army Corps of Engineers, the Bureau of Reclamation’s budget, the Department of Energy, and other agencies. The amendment, offered by Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA 44) would have forbid the Bureau of Reclamation or any agency of the State of California operating a water project in coordination with the Central Valley or State Water Project from restricting water exports less than historic maximum levels of water export.
07.08.2009	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that a total of $5.92 million has been released to the Veterans Central California Health Care System to make energy infrastructure upgrades and improvements at the Fresno facility which provides health care services for more than 100,000 veterans each year. Funding was made available in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. “This is a triple win for our veterans, our Valley and our state,” Costa said. “These energy improvements at the hospital in Fresno will save Valley taxpayers money in the long run, and our returning military heroes will have a state-of-the-art hospital to use for their rehabilitation, surgeries, or necessary check-ups.” Approximately $1.57 million will replace steam boilers, $1.6 million will replace a cooling tower, and $2.75 million will replace the heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems at the Veterans Central California Health Care System. The Department of Veterans Affairs is directing more than one-quarter of its $1.4 billion in funds from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act investments to clean energy generation and energy conservation. Al Perry, the Director of the VA Central California Health Care System was thrilled to hear today’s good news that the Central California facility is the recipient of these stimulus funds. Perry went on to express that the VA is proud to be a part of the administration’s efforts to find the most modern technology for energy conservation and anxious for the modernization to begin. Overall, more than $68 million is going to renewable sources which include solar, wind and geothermal, while nearly $238 million will be directed to retrofit existing buildings to use energy and water more efficiently.
07.07.2009	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that a total of $2.1 million has been awarded to the City of San Joaquin to help upgrade and expand the city’s wastewater treatment plant. Funding was released through the US Department of Commerce made available through the Economic Development Administration. “This is great news for the city of San Joaquin,” Costa said. “We need to use all the water tools in our toolbox during this water crisis, and investments in wastewater treatment facilities are a wise use of federal dollars.” “The Obama Administration is committed to creating jobs, encouraging innovation and improving our nation’s economic competitiveness,” US Commerce Secretary Gary Locke said. “This grant will help diversify the San Joaquin region’s economy by upgrading and expanding the wastewater treatment facility to support business development plans and to serve future business needs.” The city's current system is inadequate and prevents business expansion or creation in the historically agricultural area. An upgraded system will have almost twice the capacity, and will save threatened existing agricultural jobs and allow the development of new agri-businesses. The project is expected to create or save 1,000 jobs and generate $50 million in private investment, according to grantee estimates.
07.07.2009	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that a total of $1.7 million has been awarded to the Fresno Area Hispanic Foundation to help renovate and expand a commercial building to serve as a business incubator for Fresno’s designated enterprise zone. Funding was released through the US Department of Commerce made available through the Economic Development Administration. “Small businesses are the backbone to the City of Fresno’s local economy,” Costa said. “This funding will be a shot-in-the-arm to our enterprise zone, encouraging entrepreneurship and furthering the important work of the Fresno Area Hispanic Foundation” The incubator will continue the work of the Fresno Area Hispanic Foundation in providing technical assistance and microloans to entrepreneurs, and add on-site state-of-the-art technology resources and office space to act as a catalyst for target industries such as Internet web design, graphic design, and custom manufacturing. It is estimated that 900 jobs will be created and $36 million in private investment will be leveraged.
06.30.2009	FRESNO, CA- Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) is pleased to announce that a total of $600,000 is coming to the Fresno Community Development Financial Institution in downtown Fresno. These dollars are being awarded through the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s CDFI Fund and were made available in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. “These funds will provide valuable resources to assist those in our valley as they venture into business opportunities; providing our small business owners and entrepreneurs with resources that may not otherwise be readily available to them,” Costa stated. Established in 1994 as a Fresno County EOC micro-loan program, the Fresno Community Development Financial Institution (FCDFI) has historically used their resources for minority small farmers. However, with the current economic situation, the base of borrowers has expanded into several other areas of traditional and nontraditional business owners and operators, from small farms to storefront operations. Financing, as well as valuable technical assistance, such as business planning, marketing plans and workshops are all available through the FCDFI. Just recently, FCDFI small business owner, Sureewan Lee, owner of SL Alterations and Designs, was featured as an example of the types of newfound success the program and its participants are enjoying. Through the services and resources provided through the Fresno Community Development Financial Institution, Ms. Lee was able to expand her seamstress business by increasing her inventory as well as hiring a part-time employee. Emphasized Costa, “In these extraordinary times, we are especially pleased to be able to offer expanded funding to those throughout the Fresno Community to assist them in their drive to succeed.” FCDFI Executive Director Salam Nalia, was pleased to receive notification of these funds and explained, “We realize that in these tough times, many sectors of the economy are in dire need of financing. We want to reach out and help them strengthen their businesses through financing and technical assistance. This award will certainly help us in our ongoing efforts.” For more information about the Fresno FCDFI, please visit https://www.fresnocdfi.com. For more information about the US Treasury’s CDFI fund, please visit https://www.cdfifund.gov/
06.26.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) voted no today on HR 2454, the American Clean Energy and Security Act. Unfortunately, it passed by a slim vote of 219 to 212. Following this vote, Costa released the following statement. “I had hoped to vote for the American Clean Energy and Security Act. However, the changes that were made to the bill were not enough to alleviate my concerns. The bill still needs more work. Before I vote for any final passage of the legislation, the Senate and conference committee will have to make additional and significant changes that will benefit our Valley.”
06.25.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Today, Congressmen Jim Costa (D-Fresno) and Dennis Cardoza (D-Merced) announced that Department of the Interior Secretary Ken Salazar will arrive in the San Joaquin Valley on Sunday, June 28th, 2009. Salazar will be joined by Deputy Secretary David Hayes and Bureau of Reclamation Commissioner Mike Connor. The San Joaquin Valley has been especially hard hit by drought in the past few years. Additionally, water deliveries to Valley farmers from the San Joaquin Delta have been curtailed by regulators who have placed an undue amount of blame on famers for declines in fish populations to the north. Since President Obama took office in January, Congressmen Cardoza and Costa have requested that the incoming Interior Secretary come to the San Joaquin Valley. “This trip by Secretary Salazar is a result of weekly talks with our offices and the Department of Interior regarding the drought and the impact on our Valley. The Secretary knows about the hundreds thousands of acres of fallowed fields, the high unemployment and the possibility of a fourth year of drought,” said Costa. “The lack of water has rippled into every facet of our economy. We now have those who normally sow and reap our nation’s food, standing in food lines to feed their own families. As part of this important visit, I will be explaining to the Secretary the need for both short and long term water solutions in California, which include repairing the Delta, improving water supply and quality, and environmental restoration.” “I am grateful for Secretary Salazar’s visit to the Valley,” said Congressman Dennis Cardoza. “The Central Valley simply cannot continue down its current path. This regulatory drought is destroying our farmers, our families and our local economy. Further, we are facing a genuine risk of having to import additional food to supply our nation. I look forward to providing Secretary Salazar with as much insight as possible about the extreme hardship in our agricultural community and look forward to the assistance that he is capable of providing.” Further details of the Secretary’s visit will be announced in the coming days.
06.19.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) made the following statement at a full committee hearing of the House Committee on Financial Services. The hearing was on the Economic Disaster Area Act legislation written by Congressman Dennis Cardoza (D-Merced) and Costa. Statement as prepared for delivery “Mr. Chairman: – First, I thank you for holding this hearing regarding this important piece of draft legislation. It is my hope that the committee will see fit to assist in its swift consideration and passage. I’d also like to thank my good friend and colleague, Mr. Cardoza for drafting this legislation. He and his staff have spent many hours fine-tuning this draft, and I very much appreciate their hard work. “As you are well aware, our nation has been ravaged by the recession from coast to coast. However, certain areas have been hit much harder than others. For instance, in my district three years of drought conditions combined with a meltdown in the dairy industry have resulted in staggering job losses. Combined with the nationwide stresses on the housing industry my district has seen high rates of home foreclosure and food lines that stretch for blocks and still fail to meet the needs of the hungry. “This legislation provides communities with the tools they need to weather fiscal storms. Formula-based spending often fails to take into account extenuating circumstances at the local level. This bill would provide the President with the ability to declare certain counties ‘Economic Disaster Areas’. These Economic Disaster Areas would be eligible for targeted relief for job creation programs, economic development projects, and rehabilitation of low-income housing units - helping put people back to work and revive local economies. It is important to note that this legislation would not ‘rob’ other communities of their allocated funds, but supplement them when extenuating circumstances warrant this. While they happen more slowly than traditional natural disasters, economic disasters are no less devastating, no less disruptive to local areas. The damage of a hurricane, a tornado or tsunami may be more obvious, but it is no more damaging than an economic disaster like the Central Valley is experiencing right now as a result of three years of drought conditions, a crisis in the dairy industry and the collapse of the housing market. “This is a powerful solution for areas like mine where unemployment has shot past 15 percent at the county level, and where some cities are seeing more than 40% of their residents without work. The ability to undertake pending projects, put people back to work, and keep them from losing their homes is exactly what is needed at this juncture. “The Central Valley of California is certainly not the only area that has been recently ravaged by the nationwide recession combined with local extenuating factors. For instance, certain counties in Michigan which have been severely impacted by the turmoil within the domestic automotive industry could benefit from this legislation. For a period of two years, The President could declare the affected counties Economic Disaster Areas much like he could declare an area-specific emergency after a natural disaster. Those powers were provided by the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act. This will give the needed time for the area to combat the economic devastation. Especially in regions that rely heavily on one industry to power their economy, this time to rebuild is very much needed. I believe that, while not the silver bullet to combat the regional economic challenges across our nation, this legislation is an important tool in the process. When local and state governments lack the capacity to provide relief, the federal government should assist these efforts. “I’d like to urge the support of all members of the committee and also appreciate any insight about concerns they may have with the draft language. I’d like to thank Chairman Frank and Ranking Member Bachus for allowing me to testify on behalf of this meritorious legislation, and I will be happy to answer any questions you may have.”
06.18.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives failed pass a bipartisan amendment to the Commerce –Justice-Science Appropriations Act (the Act) which would have cut all funding to the misguided National Marine Fisheries Service biological opinion on the Delta by a narrow vote of 208 to 218. Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) voted in favor of the amendment. If passed later this afternoon, the Act would move onto the Senate for consideration. “I’m fighting for farmers, farm workers, and our Valley. The National Marine Fisheries Service biological opinion released earlier this month is flawed, and will continue to hurt our Valley’s farmers and farm workers,” said Costa. “Overall, the biological opinion left out the numerous other stressors affecting the health of the Delta. Congressman Devin Nunes (R-Tulare) offered a bipartisan amendment, with support from Congressman Cardoza’s and me, to the CJS Appropriations bill which would have forbid funds in the bill to implement the biological opinion. I supported the amendment, but a much larger effort is needed to solve our water problems.” The opinion stated that the current pumping operations in the Central Valley Project and the California State Water Project should be changed to increase the long-term survival of winter and spring-run Chinook salmon, steelhead, the North American green sturgeon and Southern Resident killer whales. The whales rely on Chinook salmon runs for food. Recommended changes in water operations will drastically impact the available annual water moved by the federal and state pumps, estimated to be around 330,000 acre feet per year. These changes come on top of water cuts to Valley farmers and cities this year, which have had major negative impacts on the San Joaquin Valley’s economy. “In my view, if left unchanged, this biological opinion’s impact to water availability this Fall and next year in our Valley and Southern California is significantly underestimated,” concluded Costa. Dr. Ian Fleming stated in a peer review of the biological opinion that some of the analyses would “benefit from more explicit attention” which includes “the additive nature of stressors and non-linear responses”. Costa strongly believes this includes the major other factors that are contributing to the decline of Delta health.
06.15.2009	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that he is currently eligible to nominate a Congressional Page for the 2009 Fall Session of the U.S. House of Representatives Democratic Page Program. Pages have been serving the House of Representatives for nearly two hundred years. Working as a team, Pages assist Members with their legislative duties, deliver correspondence and small packages within the congressional complex, answer phones in the Member cloakrooms, and prepare the House Floor for sessions. “This is an outstanding opportunity for our young leaders to fully immerse themselves in the legislative process,” Costa said. “House Pages play an integral role in the day-to-day activities of the U.S. House of Representatives, and this program provides them with a unique and valuable learning experience.” The session begins August 30, 2009 and concludes on January 23, 2010. Interested applicants must be at least sixteen years of age prior to the start of the program, must be a junior in high school, must be a citizen of the United States and must have a 3.0 GPA or higher in their major subjects. While serving the House during the academic year, Pages live in the Page Residence Hall, a few blocks away from the Capitol and attend classes at the House Page School. Interested students living in the State of California should contact Evan Gramis in Congressman Costa’s Washington D.C. office, at 202-225-3341, to begin the application process. The application deadline is Thursday, July 9, 2009. More information is also available on Congressman Costa’s website at https://www.house.gov/costa and at https://pageprogram.house.gov.
06.12.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that a total of $699,600 has been awarded to the Fresno County Economic Opportunities Commission. Funding was released through the US Department of Labor made available in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act for the recent YouthBuild competitive grant process. “YouthBuild is a fantastic program in Fresno County to help the at-risk young men and women earn a high school diploma and skills for their future,” said Costa. “We can’t ever go wrong with investing in our children, and I know Fresno County will use this money wisely.” The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) included $47 million for the YouthBuild program. YouthBuild Grants are used to provide disadvantaged youth with the education and employment skills necessary to achieve economic self-sufficiency in occupations in high demand and postsecondary education and training opportunities; opportunities for meaningful work and service to their communities; and opportunities to develop employment and leadership skills and a commitment to community development among youth in low-income communities. YouthBuild grantees will tap the energies and talents of disadvantaged youth to increase the supply of permanent affordable housing for homeless individuals and low-income families and to help youth develop the leadership, learning, and high-demand occupational skills needed to succeed in today's global economy.
06.10.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, President Obama announced the official transmission of legislation that would reinstitute statutory pay-as-you-go (PAYGO) rules. The Pay-As-You-Go statute requires any new mandatory government spending be matched with budget cuts or savings elsewhere. Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) participated in the announcement at the White House. Costa is a member of the fiscally conservative Blue Dog Coalition. Following the event, Costa released the following statement. “Today’s announcement by President Obama is the first time his Administration has officially submitted proposed legislation to Congress, and I cannot think of a better message to Congress: restore fiscal responsibility and accountability to our federal government. Our government cannot continue to run trillion dollar deficits forever, as they put our economy at great risk. President Obama inherited one of the largest deficits in the history of our nation, and now we must work together to bring fiscal sanity back to government. “PAYGO rules of the 1990s brought our federal government a balanced budget, and thus a vibrant economy. With the President’s support and commitment to restoring fiscal responsibility, I look forward to working with the Administration and my colleagues in the House and Senate to enact this legislation.” The fiscally conservative Democratic Blue Dog Coalition was formed in 1995 with the goal of representing the center of the House of Representatives and appealing to the mainstream values of the American public. The Blue Dogs are dedicated to a core set of beliefs that transcend partisan politics, including a deep commitment to the financial stability and national security of the United States. Currently there are 51 members of the Blue Dog Coalition.
06.10.2009	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that a total of $1,468,346 has been awarded to the Kings County Area Public Transit Agency for three 35 foot buses and ITS equipment. Funding was released through the US Department of Transportation made available in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. “This is great news for Kings County,” said Costa. “Investments in public transportation is a wise use of federal dollars, especially in fast growing rural areas. I am confident these new buses will help many residents in Kings County get around town or around the county with greater ease.” The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) included $8.4 billion for transit capital improvements. This law implements the transit formula program related provisions of the ARRA and provides program and grant application requirements for these funds, to be made available through Federal Transit Administration (FTA) assistance programs.
06.10.2009	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Bakersfield) announced that a total of $8,129,407 has been awarded to the Golden Empire Transit District for fareboxes and preventive maintenance. Funding was released through the US Department of Transportation made available in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. “The Golden Empire Transit District already has a world-class public transportation system, but these funds will simply make it better,” said Costa. “Investments in public transportation is a wise use of federal dollars, and maintaining a current fleet of buses will save taxpayers money over the long term.” The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) included $8.4 billion for transit capital improvements. This law implements the transit formula program related provisions of the ARRA and provides program and grant application requirements for these funds, to be made available through Federal Transit Administration (FTA) assistance programs.
06.04.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Today, the National Marine Fisheries Service finalized a biological opinion on the Central Valley Water Project and State Water Project. The opinion stated fish populations are in jeopardy without swift modifications to the Central Valley and State Water Projects. Following this release, Congressmen Jim Costa (D-Fresno) released the following statement. “This decision is unwise, and will have very serious implications for Valley farmers and communities,” said Costa. “The decline of fisheries in the Delta can be attributed to a variety of factors, including tertiary treatment from sewage facilities in the Sacramento and Stockton area which cause ammonia to drain into the Delta, over 1,600 private pumps in the Delta diverting water without screens, non-point source pollution from the surrounding urban areas, striped bass and other invasive species. Our state’s agricultural community cannot bear the entire brunt of this multifaceted problem. They are always the first to suffer when environmental opinions are released or implemented. I believe that the Delta does need restoration, but not at the expense of agriculture, and especially my constituents.” The opinion stated that the current pumping operations in the Central Valley Project and the California State Water Project should be changed to increase the long-term survival of winter and spring-run Chinook salmon, steelhead, the North American green sturgeon and Southern Resident killer whales. The whales rely on Chinook salmon runs for food. Recommended changes in water operations will impact an estimated five to seven percent of the available annual water moved by the federal and state pumps, or an estimated 330,000 acre feet per year. These changes come on top of water cuts to Valley farmers and cities this year, which have had major negative impacts on the San Joaquin Valley’s economy. Dr. Ian Fleming stated in a peer review of the biological opinion that some of the analyses would “benefit from more explicit attention” which includes “the additive nature of stressors and non-linear responses”. Costa believes this includes the major other factors that are contributing to the decline of Delta health.
05.28.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Following months of work by Congressmen Jim Costa (D-Fresno) and Dennis Cardoza (D-Atwater), the USDA announced today that it will activate a far-reaching subsidy program that has been sought by Valley dairy operators since last year when the industry was hit with significant economic challenges. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack made the announcement this morning in Washington, DC. “Dairy families in our Valley are struggling to stay in business. They’ve endured high feed prices, surging fuel costs and declining markets due to the economic downturn. This announcement could not have come at a more important time,” said Costa. “This is a tremendous win for the San Joaquin Valley. Agriculture is the life blood of our economy and this will significantly reduce the stark gap between revenue and expenditures for our struggling dairy operators,” said Congressman Cardoza. The Dairy Export Incentive Program (DEIP) helps U.S. dairy exporters compete with prevailing world prices. It also encourages the development of international export markets in areas where U.S. dairy products cannot compete due to subsidized dairy products from other countries. According to USDA, the DEIP allocations of 68,201 metric tons of nonfat dry milk; 21,097 metric tons of butterfat; 3,030 metric tons of various cheeses and 34 metric tons of other dairy products, as well as individual product and country allocations will be made available through Invitations for Offers. Country and region quantities may be limited by the invitation. In the past year, dairy operators in the San Joaquin Valley have been hard hit by falling milk prices and increased operating costs. They have specifically requested that the Department of Agriculture activate the far-reaching DEIP, which had not been in effect since 2004 because market conditions were relatively strong until last year. “This is going to go a long way in returning the health of the industry,” said Ray Souza, President of Western United Dairymen. “Congressmen Cardoza and Costa have been working on this issue for some time and have been champions for us. Without their work we wouldn’t be where we are today.” Congressmen Costa and Cardoza first raised the concerns over dairy prices and DEIP during a meeting with Agriculture Secretary Vilsack in February, shortly after his appointment by President Obama. They continued to air the issue with subsequent letters and repeated phone calls to the USDA and to Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton.
05.19.2009	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that a total of $364,185 has been awarded to the Cities of Huron, Mendota, Parlier and Firebaugh, along with the Fresno County Fire Protection to help purchase emergency services and systems, fire and rescue equipment, and fire, medical and police vehicles. Funding was released through the US Department of Agriculture made available in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. “Federal investment in our first responders, especially in our Valley’s rural communities, is always needed,” said Costa. “I know these towns and the county will put these dollars to good use by purchasing new equipment or upgrading current technology.” All of the funding is being provided through USDA Rural Development’s Community Facilities program, which helps finance and develop essential community facilities for public use in rural areas. These facilities include childcare centers, hospitals, medical clinics, assisted living facilities, fire and rescue stations, police stations, community centers, public buildings and transportation. The City of Huron will receive $30,000 The City of Mendota will receive $44,000 The City of Parlier will receive $70,000 The City of Firebaugh will receive $27,500 for a new fire truck and $29,750 for a police car Fresno County Fire Protection will receive a total of $162,935
05.18.2009	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that a total of $3 million has been awarded to the City of Fresno to eliminate lead-based paint from low-income homes. Funding was released through the US Department of Housing and Urban Development made available in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. “Lead-based paints are a toxic killer to children living in low-income homes, and exposure results in learning disabilities and numerous health problems,” said Costa. “However, this is a problem we can solve by removing this poison from these homes and replacing with safe, non-toxic paints. I am happy that Fresno will be able to make progress on this ongoing problem.” More than $99 million in Recovery Act grants were announced today to help remove these dangerous lead-based paints from homes.
05.12.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) applauded the appointment of Ms. Rayne Pegg of California as the United States Department of Food and Agriculture’s new Administrator of Agricultural Marketing Service. Pegg is currently the deputy secretary of Legislation and Policy for the California Secretary of Food and Agriculture. She will begin her service in July. “Rayne is the perfect candidate to head up our nation’s Agriculture Marketing Service,” said Costa. “California leads the nation in fruit, vegetable, nut and dairy production, so it makes sense to have someone with the experience and knowledge of a variety of farm products to head up this division within USDA. I am happy for Rayne and look forward to working with her over the next few years.” Costa and a number of his colleagues wrote a letter of recommendation to Secretary Vilsack on behalf of Pegg. They stated that Pegg’s work and experience with farmers, ranchers and agriculture cooperatives would greatly benefit our nation’s agriculture stay competitive in a global marketplace.
05.08.2009	FRESNO, CA – On Friday, May 8th Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) will officially announce James Torres of Hallmark Charter School as this year’s winner of the annual Congressional Art Competition. Torres is a senior and his painting titled “Impressions of the San Joaquin Valley” will be sent to Washington, DC next month to be on display in the Cannon tunnel for one year. His artwork will be displayed with other winning artwork from around the nation. “One again, the artistic talent of young men and women came shining through for this year’s Congressional Art Competition,” said Costa. “This is one of my favorite events we hold each year, and I enjoy meeting all the up and coming artists in our Valley. I want to thank all who entered and I am looking forward to seeing James’ art next to other winners around the nation.” Since 1982, the Congressional Art Competition has honored the creative talents of thousands of high school students across the nation. Local competitions are voluntarily hosted by Members of Congress in their home districts. In June, the winning artwork is sent to Washington, and winners are invited to the Capitol for a ribbon-cutting ceremony and Congressional reception. The competition receives over 500 entries every year. Torres’ artwork will replace “Thinking of You”, a piece created by Johnny Reyes of Hanford, California. Katie Olds, a senior at Hanford West High School, won second place with a piece titled “Woman With the Hat”, and the third place winner was Sadie Mendoza, a sophomore at Hallmark Charter School, with a piece titled “Eye of the Flower”. Costa will host the event starting at 5:00pm on Friday May 8th at the Fresno Metropolitan Museum of Art and Science. The Museum is located at 1515 Van Ness, Fresno, CA 93721.
05.07.2009	Costa Adds An Amendment To Ensure Rural Areas Receive Adequate Homeownership Counseling Funds WASHINGTON, DC- Today, the House of Representatives passed HR 1728, the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act by a vote of 300 to 114. Congressman Jim Costa,(D-Fresno) supported the legislation and also offered an amendment to the bill, which was added in a Manager’s package on Thursday. The bill will now move on to the Senate for consideration. “This legislation aims to curb abusive and predatory lending, while not over-burdening those lenders who have acted responsibly,” said Costa. “The amendment I authored ensures that rural areas like the Central Valley are not barred from valuable foreclosure and homeownership counseling services this bill provides. Our Valley has been disproportionately impacted by the nationwide housing crisis and this bill is an important step in both addressing the current crisis and preventing another from occurring down the road.” Costa’s amendment was accepted into the Manager’s package earlier in the week. It ensures adequate distribution of homeownership counseling funds for rural areas, including areas with insufficient access to the Internet. The Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act of 2009 will make sure that the industry follows basic principles of sound lending, responsibility, and consumer protection. It ensures that borrowers can repay the loans they are sold, mortgage lenders make loans that benefit the consumer, mortgage refinancing provides a net tangible benefit to the consumer, and for the first time ever, holds the secondary mortgage market responsible for complying with these common sense standards when they buy loans and turn them into securities. Finally, there are incentives in the bill for the mortgage market to move back toward making safe, fully documented loans and ensure that tenants renting homes that are in foreclosure receive notification and time to relocate.
05.06.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) and a bipartisan group of legislators introduced the American Conservation and Clean Energy Independence Act. The bill outlines a practical, responsible energy plan for America to further develop domestic energy production, provide a funding stream to clean up the environment and fully develop clean energy technologies. Without using a single dime of taxpayer money, the bill provides funding for a variety of goals, including environmental restoration, energy conservation, renewable energy, carbon capture and sequestration, and the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). “This is a common sense, bipartisan bill that will put our nation on a path toward significantly reducing our dependence on foreign sources of energy,” said Costa. “Together, we must work towards viable energy policy, and I feel we must use all energy sources we have here at home to develop domestic energy. Therefore, we must use all the energy tools in our energy toolbox to accomplish this goal.” Over the past several months, Costa has been working with a bipartisan group of House members to develop energy legislation. The legislation extends the boundary of costal states to a uniform 12 nautical miles and repeals the 125 mile moratorium on gas and oil production in the Eastern Gulf of Mexico. The total projected royalties for all the oil and natural gas estimated to be in the areas opened by the bill are approximately $2.2 trillion over the next twenty years. These revenues will be distributed to the state and federal government, as well as to a variety of environmental and energy programs, as follows: â— 30% to Producing States â— 20% to the Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Reserve â— 10% to the Clean Coal Technology Deployment Carbon Capture and Sequestration Reserve â— 10% to the Environmental Restoration Reserve â— 10% to the General Fund of the U.S. Treasury â— 8% for the Conservation Reserve â— 5% to the Carbon Free Technology Deployment and Nuclear Energy Reserve â— 5% to the Clean Water Reserve â— 2% to the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) In addition, this legislation modifies the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to today’s refining capabilities by exchanging 10% (70 million barrels) of the reserve’s content and dedicates funds received from the exchange of supply and existing SPR funds ($523 million estimated) to existing conservation, energy research and development and energy assistance programs. Specifically, funds received will go toward programs such as winder energy research, solar energy research, marine and hydrokinetic renewable energy, geothermal energy and many more. The bill also extends alternative and renewable energy production and investment tax credits until 2019 to provide predictability for investors and private capital to continue to build the clean energy infrastructure and production capacity and needed for more American produced energy. Finally, the bill will expand the use of low carbon electricity production and enhance America’s security by promoting fuel diversity, spurring the use of electric hybrids in transportation. To further these goals, the legislation requires the federal government to make minimum purchases of plug-in hybrids, and advises the Secretary of Energy to enter into negotiations to create common standards for electric and plug-in hybrid vehicles between Europe and Asia. It also prepares a study to ensure infrastructure for plug-in hybrids is available, provides loan guarantees for advance battery purchases, creates a new tax credit for the most efficient vehicle in class, extends the tax credit for larger hybrid vehicles, and provides $50 billion in loan guarantees for energy generation units to provide low carbon diversification for America’s electric grid. “As we create new comprehensive energy policy to reduce our dependencies on foreign sources of energy in America, I believe that it is important for us to understand and agree to realistic transitional timelines in the short, near, and long-term. Conventional energy, together with renewable sources and a strategy of energy conservation will best serve our long-term energy needs,” concluded Costa.
04.29.2009	Act Designates April 26th to May 2nd As National Crime Victims’ Rights Week WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) and Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) announced that House Resolution 109, the National Crime Victims’ Rights Week Act of 2009 passed the House by a vote of 422 to 0. This act designates the week of April 26th as National Crime Victims’ Rights Week to increase public awareness of the rights, needs, and concerns of victims and survivors of crime in the United States. It also celebrates the 25th anniversary of the enactment of the Victims of Crime Act of 1984. “Crime victims are our sons, daughters, and our friends and neighbors,” said Costa. “When they are in need of assistance after a crime, they should not be met with a closed door, but open arms. This year, we mark the 25th anniversary of the enactment of the Victims of Crime Act of 1984, better known as VOCA. This legislation has supported rights and services for crime victims for the last 25 years, and has done it without the use of a single dime from the American taxpayer.” “During the 25th anniversary of National Crime Victims’ Rights Week, community leaders and organizations recognize the importance of victims’ rights,” said Poe. “The week honors both crime victims and the individuals who advocate for them every day. This year’s anniversary is especially important as it serves as a reminder that it is the same United States Constitution that protects the rights of offenders that also protects the rights of victims. Without justice for victims, we do not have justice at all.” As co-chairmen and co-founders of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus, Costa and Poe have been leaders in bringing the issue of crime victims’ rights to the forefront in Congress. The Caucus has been successful in authoring legislation and amendments to help bring more debate to the issue, as well as protecting the Victims of Crime Act fund and the Violence Against Women Act from being raided by the Administration.
04.23.2009	Alliance Against Family Violence And Sexual Assault Of Bakersfield Is Co-Recipient Of The Ed Stout Award WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressmen Jim Costa (D-CA) and Ted Poe (R-TX) joined members of the bipartisan Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus to honor this year’s outstanding individuals that have given countless hours of their time and service to helping victims of crime. Costa and Poe co-founded the bipartisan Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus in 2005. “All of these recipients are those who selflessly give time and compassion to others who have suffered from a violent crime or domestic violence,” said Costa. “Crime knows no boundary or demographic, and victims of crime can be our family, friends or neighbors. Our winners this year go above and beyond the call of duty in helping victims and survivors of crime through very traumatic time periods.” “Quiet heroes are those victim advocates that help people when crime is committed against them. These advocates go out of their way to help victims regain dignity and physical and mental strength,” said Poe. “While there are hundreds of victim advocates, today we honor a select few who have risen in a time of need and stand strong.” The 2009 Victims’ Rights Caucus Recipients Ed Stout Memorial Award for Outstanding Victim Advocacy – Alliance Against Family Violence and Sexual Assault. The Alliance represents everything that Ed Stout worked so hard for during his work on behalf of crime victims and survivors. They are a nonprofit, grassroots organization that since 1979 has provided support and services to victims of domestic violence and sexual assault in Kern County and the surrounding area. These services are free, and are bilingual, which serves Kern County’s diverse ethnic background. Their strong focus on assisting victims of violence against women in rural areas is remarkable. The Alliance Against Family Violence and Sexual Assault was nominated by Costa. Ed Stout Memorial Award for Outstanding Victim Advocacy – Sheryl Cates. Ms. Sheryl Cates has spent the last 25 years advocating for victims of domestic violence at all levels. As Executive Director at Women’s Protective Services in Lubbock, TX, Sheryl worked directly with victims as well as supervising staff who provide services to victims. Also, as CEO of the Texas council on Family Violence, National Domestic Violence Hotline and loveisrespect.org National Teen Dating Abuse Helpline, Sheryl is recognized nationally as an expert in the field of domestic violence and as someone who can be counted on to participate in any efforts to support the needs of victims and their families. Cates was nominated by Congressman Lamar Smith (R-TX-21) Suzanne McDaniel Public Awareness Award – Katherine Cabaniss. Ms. Cabaniss is the Executive Director of Houston Crime Stoppers. As a former Assistant District Attorney, she has a passion for preventing and fighting crime. During her time with Crime Stoppers, Ms. Cabaniss has built strategic alliances with people and organizations that assist victims of crime, including local school districts, apartment property management companies, and women’s shelters. She has strengthened Crime Stoppers relationship with the media, and in doing so, has used her voice to promote safe communities and justice for victims of crime. Cabaniss was nominated by Representative Ted Poe (R-TX-02). Lois Haight Award of Excellence and Innovation – Steve Twist. Mr. Twist has worked tirelessly to ensure that every jurisdiction in America provides victims with rights in the criminal justice system and that those rights are enforceable by the individual victim. He has worked as counsel to the Navajo Nation, aiding in the drafting of various victim provisions, and is the principal author of the Arizona constitutional amendment for victims’ rights and the Arizona Victims’ Rights Implementation Act, which together are the strongest victims’ rights legal provisions in the country. Mr. Twist was nominated by Congressman John Shadegg (R-AZ-03) Eva Murillo Unsung Hero Award – Jenny Wieland. Jenny Wieland’s 17 year old daughter and only child was murdered by another teen in 1992. She turned her pain into purpose and has worked tirelessly to reduce youth violence, in hopes that other mothers would not have to experience the loss of a child to a violent crime. In 1994, Jenny Wieland became a founding board member of Mothers Against Violence in America (MAVIA). In early 1995, she left a career as an insurance broker to become MAVIA’s Program Director and first employee. During her seven-year tenure with MAVIA, she helped create and implement MAVIA’s many national and local programs, including the acclaimed Washington State model of Day of National Concern About Young People and Gun Violence, which encourages young Americans in classrooms and communities across the country to sign the Student Pledge Against Gun Violence. Currently, Wieland is serving as Executive Director of Families and Friends of Violent Crime Victims in Washington State. Wieland was nominated by Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA-08) Allied Professional Award – Michael Davis, President of Appriss, Inc. Michael Davis is the co-founder and president of Appriss, the provider of local, state and federal automated victim information and notification services and automated victim protection order services. In 1994, Mary Byron was murdered on her 21st birthday by her former boyfriend who was in jail in Louisville, Kentucky. Mary and her parents asked to be notified if and when he was released, which did not happen. In response to this preventable tragedy, Davis and his partner created VINE® (Victim Information and Notification Everyday), which provides confidential, around-the-clock notifications to victims about the status of their offenders. VINE keeps crime victims and survivors informed and involved in their cases, in turn promoting personal and community safety. Today, Appriss provides VINE and related services to more than 75% of our nation. States participating in the Statewide Automated Victim Information and Notification (SAVIN) grant program have entrusted Appriss as their technology provider. Davis was nominated by Representative John Yarmuth (D-KY-03).
04.22.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) made the following statement on the floor of the House of Representatives regarding the 94th anniversary of the start of the Armenian Genocide. Costa is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and is an original cosponsor of H. Res. 252, a resolution recognizing the Armenian Genocide in the United States. “Madam Speaker, I rise today to commemorate the 94th anniversary of the start of the Armenian Genocide, which was the first genocide of the 20th century and sadly, the template for a cycle of genocide that continues to this very day. “It is, by any reasonable standard, established history that between 1915 and 1923 the Ottoman Empire systematically killed an estimated 1.5 million Armenians and drove hundreds of thousands of others into exile from their ancestral homeland. The record of this atrocity is well documented in the United States Archives and has been universally accepted in the International Association of Genocide Scholars and the broader historical and academic communities. “This year, our nation has the opportunity to finally recognize the Armenian Genocide as such in the annual commemoration from the White House. Year after year, we have seen the same standard letter from the White House which offers sympathy and apology for the ‘mass killings,’ yet refused to label these events as genocide. However, President Obama made promises during his campaign that he would right this wrong, and recognize the Armenian Genocide. I am hopeful Madam Speaker, we finally escape from being under Turkey’s thumb on this issue. It is vital our nation has a foreign policy that accurately reflects history. “Despite my optimism, I am told yet again that now is not the right time for our nation to recognize the Armenian Genocide. Two years ago, we were told recognition would hurt our troops fighting in Iraq. Four years ago we were told the same thing. This year, we’re being told that recognizing the Armenian Genocide will hurt American jobs. How? We cannot develop a foreign policy based solely on what other countries want to hear about their past. Should we not recognize the Soviet orchestrated famine which killed millions in the Ukraine? Should we allow Cambodia to rewrite the atrocities committed under the reign of the Khmer Rouge? What if our schools stopped teaching the American Revolution and we stopped celebrating the Fourth of July because it offended the British? All nations must recognize past events, both good and bad, and learn from it. “To ensure Congress does not mention or pass the Armenian Genocide resolution, Turkey hires powerful and expensive lobbyists to meet with Members and staff, distort the historical facts, and make veiled threats on what might happen if the Genocide is recognized. For the last twenty years, Turkey has been very successful. I firmly believe that we should work with foreign nations on challenges and mutual interests. However, I do not believe another nation can hold our foreign policy decisions hostage because they do not want to admit to dark periods in their past. It is unacceptable that we continue to allow threats from Turkey to hinder our nation from recognizing a historical fact that has been recognized by historians, scholars, theologians, philosophers, common people, and President Ronald Reagan. “My district is home to thousands of Armenian-Americans, many who are the sons and daughters of survivors. When I am home, I am often approached in the store or on the street by my Armenian friends asking when our country will honor their parents and finally recognize the genocide. We are quickly approaching the 100th anniversary of the start of the Armenian Genocide, and I am hopeful we do not have to wait until then to bring justice to my Armenian friends and neighbors. “In closing, Madam Speaker, I will say again, genocide is not something that can simply swept under the rug and forgotten. We need leaders around the world to not only recognize it, but to condemn it so the world can truly say ‘Never Again’. The United States cannot continue its policy of denial regarding the Armenian Genocide, and I encourage passage of H. Res. 252 to recognize the Armenian Genocide in our nation.”
04.15.2009	FRESNO, CA — Today, Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar announced a $260 million investment in California’s water infrastructure. Following that announcement, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) released the following statement: “Secretary Salazar’s visit to the Valley was a critical trip. I am sure he saw the challenges faced by those who rely on the Delta as a source of water. While I am thankful for his desire to visit and see firsthand some of California’s challenges, it appears that the Department of Interior’s priorities, as they emerged in today’s announcement of infrastructure projects for California, ignore the critical needs of an important segment of California’s society and economy, namely the central San Joaquin Valley. “The federal investment of $260 million California’s water infrastructure is a step in the right direction to help our state’s water challenges. Our water system was built over fifty years ago, and has not kept up with the state’s population increases. Any federal investment in water infrastructure must provide adequate water for farms, for cities and to ensure the health of rivers, lakes, and streams, but that investment must be balanced. In light of the economic devastation now taking place in the central San Joaquin Valley due to critical water shortages, it was hoped that the Department of Interior would dedicate a balanced portion of the stimulus funding towards projects that would afford the operational flexibility for providing a reliable supply of water to meet the needs of our distressed communities. “Today’s announcement, however, is very disappointing in that it does little to help our farmers and farm workers in the next six to twenty-four months, should we continue to experience ongoing dry circumstances. The major portion of projects identified is focused on fisheries and environmental projects, and neglects the human needs. Many towns in my district are experiencing Depression-level unemployment due to a lack of water for our farms right now. What is unclear is how the identified projects address these real human needs. “I will continue to press President Obama, Secretary Salazar and my colleagues in the House of Representatives to use all the powers and discretion the federal government has to bring more water to our region. Finally, I would ask once again the President and Secretary Salazar to personally visit the central San Joaquin Valley and see firsthand the misery this water crisis is evoking.”
04.13.2009	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that a total of $12 million has been released to the Veterans Central California Health Care system to make infrastructure upgrades and improvements at the hospital. Funding was made available in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. “We owe a great debt to the men and women who served our nation in the military, and providing health care for them is the least we can do,” said Costa. “This money will be put to use right away in our community. The hospital has planned to expand parking, remove known asbestos in the building, make sidewalk repairs, replace steam boilers and increase capacity with the air conditioning system. While these may be small repairs, they will benefit thousands of our Valley’s veterans and save the hospital from making more expensive repairs and improvements down the road.” The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) provided $1 billion for non-recurring maintenance to address deficiencies and avoid other maintenance problems for the 153 VA hospitals across the nation. ARRA also provided $150 million for state grants to construct additional extended care facilities for vets.
04.13.2009	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Bakersfield) announced that a total of $393,816 has been released to Kern County organizations to combat homelessness. These funds are being awarded through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)’s Emergency Food and Shelter Program (EFSP), and were made available in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA). “Providing food and shelter for those weathering the worst of this economic storm must be a priority,” said Costa. “As families lose their homes and workers lose their jobs, food banks and homeless shelters must keep up with the increased demand in order to aid Valley families. Without this extra funding, many organizations would have been forced to turn away even more people during these tough times.” Today’s ARRA funds come in addition to FEMA’s $200 million annual FY 2009 allocation announced in December. EFSP funds are not to be used for budget shortfalls or excessive administrative overhead, but for direct assistance to those most in need in our community. United Way of Kern County is responsible for distributing the funding to charities and food banks throughout the region. EFSP funds can be used for a range of services, including mass shelter, food distribution through food pantries and food banks, and transition assistance from shelters to stable living conditions.
04.13.2009	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that a total of $578,350 has been released to Fresno and Kings County organizations to combat homelessness. These funds are being awarded through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)’s Emergency Food and Shelter Program (EFSP), and were made available in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA). “Providing food and shelter for those weathering the worst of this economic storm must be a priority,” said Costa. “As families lose their homes and workers lose their jobs, food banks and homeless shelters must keep up with the increased demand in order to aid Valley families. Without this extra funding, many organizations would have been forced to turn away even more people during these tough times.” Fresno County will receive approximately $509,208 and Kings County will receive $69,142. Today’s ARRA funds come in addition to FEMA’s $200 million annual FY 2009 allocation announced in December. EFSP funds are not to be used for budget shortfalls or excessive administrative overhead, but for direct assistance to those most in need in our community. United Way of Fresno and Kings County is responsible for distributing the funding to charities and food banks throughout the region. EFSP funds can be used for a range of services, including mass shelter, food distribution through food pantries and food banks, and transition assistance from shelters to stable living conditions.
04.08.2009	Funding Will Go To Rehabilitate The Airport’s Taxiway WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that a total of $5 million has been released to Fresno Yosemite International Airport to rehabilitate their taxiway. Funding was made available in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. “More Valley residents are using Fresno Yosemite International Airport to start their vacation or business trip,” said Costa. “These funds to rehab the taxiway are coming at an ideal time, as the airport is growing quickly and will allow for increases in passenger and airline capacity in the future.” The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) provided $1 billion to the Federal Aviation Administration to allocate to qualified airports on a discretionary basis. Funding was distributed based on a project priority system that addressed airport safety, security, infrastructure, runway safety and increased capacity.
04.01.2009	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that a total of $3,647,000 will be made available for the Federal courthouse project in Fresno. These funds were authorized in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act for GSA to renovate and construct Federal buildings and courthouses. “Our courthouse in Fresno has been long overdue for renovation, and these funds could not be any timelier,” said Costa. “Using taxpayer dollars to renovate this building, along with improving the building’s energy technology, is a wise investment for the short and long term. I am looking forward to seeing this project completed.” The GSA selected the best projects for accomplishing the goals of the Recovery Act basted on two over-arching criteria: the ability of the project to put people back to work quickly, and transforming Federal buildings into high-performance green buildings. The project and others like it will be overseen by a regionally executive Program Management Office.
03.31.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) made the following statement at full committee oversight hearing in the House Committee on Natural Resources. The hearing was titled, “The California Drought: Actions By Federal And State Agencies To Address Impacts On Lands, Fisheries And Water Users.” Costa is a member of the House Committee on Natural Resources and is a member of the Subcommittee on Water and Power, and is Chairman of the Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources. Statement as prepared for delivery. “First, I want to thank the committee and the chairman for holding this hearing. I also want to thank the witnesses for being here today. This is a critical issue for the Valley and your combined efforts are necessary to determine both short-term and long-term solutions to this drought crisis. “This current water shortage is having devastating effects for our farmers and farm-workers, and as a result, on everyone living in the Valley. I want to thank all our attendees for taking the time to be here to make sure that others know how vital a reliable water supply is to our economy and our lives. The San Joaquin Valley is the backbone of California’s agricultural economy, with three of the top agriculture producing counties in the nation located there. “Valley agriculture is a $20 billion industry that accounts for nearly 40% of the Valley’s employment. As you all know, we are here today because California has faced three consecutive years of drought. Lester Snow, Director of the California Department of Water Resources, who is here today has called this possibly ‘the worst California drought in modern history.’ “A federal court decision last year has already reduced Central Valley Project supplies by approximately 30%, limiting the amount of water that could be pumped from the Delta and then stored in the San Luis Reservoir. While reservoirs hit record lows, federal allocations are set at zero to the San Joaquin Valley, and at 20% for state water deliveries. “As a result, experts estimate that upwards of 40,000 jobs could be lost, an economic impact that could exceed $2 billion in the San Joaquin Valley. These losses reverberate throughout the Valley economy. Over 847,000 acres of some of the world’s most productive farmland will be fallowed. More than 300 crops are grown in the Valley, some of which are not grown anywhere else in the country. “Small communities are crippled by the water shortage, with towns like Mendota at 41% unemployment, Firebaugh at 35%, and Delano (a city of 50,000 people) at 34%. The Mayor of Mendota, Robert Silva, who could not be here today, has submitted a testimony for this hearing. I ask unanimous consent that it be inserted into the record. This drought has a human face that I would like everyone here to recognize. “Here we have people lining up at the Nancy Daniel of Youth Center in Mendota at the monthly food giveaway. Every month, this food center opens up to feed the hungry. Here volunteers give away 750 boxes of food. In this picture, we see a line of more than 50 people turned away when the food ran out on February 19. In two hours, all 750 boxes of food were given away. Although the Youth Center was set to reopen at 9am the next day, there was no food left to give. Real people are losing their jobs here. “In July, 2008, we held a field hearing on these issues. Over one month ago, Interior Secretary Ken Salazar and Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack issued a Press Release announcing that a Federal Drought Action Team would be created to respond to the drought crisis. Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger declared a state of emergency and ordered immediate action on the drought. While I very much appreciate those initial efforts as a starting point, we still see limited water coming to the San Joaquin Valley today. “Naming a Drought Task Force is not enough. Plain and simple: we don’t need words, we need water. “Federal and state collaboration is urgently needed to declare a federal emergency declaration that would provide for water supplies now to alleviate the hardships faced by Valley residents, just as the case with the Red River, and secondly to make funds available for immediate relief; it is my understanding that both USDA and DOI offer a range of assistance programs for rural communities, farmers, and ranchers impacted by the drought. Aid should be expedited so that it can provide assistance now, when it is needed the most. Third, relax standards that prevent water supplies from going to those who need it. Finally, we need to help California find ways to mitigate its water challenges and meet long-term needs. “In closing, I want to thank the chairman again for holding this hearing, and I am very interested to hear the testimony of the various witnesses, and thank them again for their time and commitment to this pressing issue.”
03.27.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) commended U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack’s announcement today that USDA plans to purchase about 200 million pounds of nonfat dry milk for domestic feeding programs, offering relief to dairy farmers and low income families challenged by tough economic times. “I am pleased to see this step Secretary Vilsack is taking to ease the hardships dairymen are facing in my district and across the nation,” said Costa. “With domestic and global demand for U.S. dairy products declining, combined with producer costs at all-time highs, this is a positive move taken by the Secretary. My colleagues and I look forward to working with him on implementing the Dairy Export Incentive Program (DEIP) and additional steps to fix our nation’s dairy industry.” In January, Costa and 35 Members of Congress sent a letter encouraging Secretary Vilsack to use USDA authority to make dairy purchases for feeding programs. The letter expressed concern for dairy farmers who are faced with milk prices 25 percent lower than last year and feed prices 15 percent higher. They also highlighted the fact that a record number of Americans, more than 31 million people, qualified for benefits under the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) at the end of 2008. Costa met with Secretary Vilsack in February to discuss the problems plaguing the dairy industry in California. Details of Secretary Vilsack’s announcement can be found here: https://www.usda.gov/wps/portal/!ut/p/_s.7_0_A/7_0_1OB?contentidonly=true&contentid=2009/03/0071.xml
03.27.2009	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that a total of $1,072,628 has been released to three community health care centers in Kings and Fresno Counties. These funds are being awarded through the Department of Health and Human Services and were made available in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. “Improving our Valley’s community health care centers is a very wise use of stimulus package funding,” said Costa. “Health centers are an essential source of primary healthcare for many of the Valley’s families, especially low-income residents. Without these centers, many of our residents are forced to rely upon more costly emergency room treatment for regular medical treatment. These grants preserve the health of Valley families and save taxpayers more in the long run. I am very happy for these centers in Kings and Fresno County.” Avenal Community Health Care Center in Avenal will receive $148,042, United Health Centers of San Joaquin Valley in Parlier will receive $694,438 and Valley Health Team in San Joaquin will receive $230,148. Funds can be used by these health care centers to expand services by adding new providers, expanding hours of operation or expanding services. Each grantee submitted a detailed plan to the Department of Health and Human Services of how these funds would be used at their center.
03.27.2009	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Bakersfield) announced that a total of $2,526,704 has been released to two community health care centers in Kern County. These funds are being awarded through the Department of Health and Human Services and were made available in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. “Improving our Valley’s community health care centers is a very wise use of stimulus package funding,” said Costa. “Health centers are an essential source of primary healthcare for many of the Valley’s families, especially low-income residents. Without these centers, many of our residents are forced to rely upon more costly emergency room treatment for regular medical treatment. These grants preserve the health of Valley families and save taxpayers more in the long run. I am very happy for these centers in Kern County.” National Health Services, Inc. in Shafter will receive $707,903, and Clinica Sierra Vista in Bakersfield will receive $1,818,801. Funds can be used by these health care centers to expand services by adding new providers, expanding hours of operation or expanding services. Each grantee submitted a detailed plan to the Department of Health and Human Services of how these funds would be used at their center.
03.25.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Today, the House of Representatives passed the Omnibus Public Lands Management Act of 2009 by a vote of 285 to 140. The bill was passed by the United States Senate last week, and now heads to the White House for President Obama’s signature. Following passage, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) released the following statement. "It's taken more time than I originally thought, but we have finally passed the Omnibus Public Land Management Act. There are important measures in this legislation that will help our Valley and our state. “First, $1 million has been authorized for the California Water Institute at Fresno State for the creation of an Integrated Regional Water Management Plan for the Valley. This plan will serve as a guide for identifying and increasing water supply in our Valley. In addition, it will identify water quality issues, flood control measures, environmental restoration projects and water infrastructure development to ensure our Valley’s long-term water sustainability needs are met. "Second, the bill will bring closure to almost 18 years of litigation between the Natural Resources Defense Council, the Friant Water Users, the US Department of Interior and others regarding the San Joaquin River. This settlement has two equal goals: to avoid adverse water supply impacts to long-term Friant water contractors and to restore fish populations. This is a very important step for all the parties involved in this settlement, for without this legislation, they could face court-imposed judgments, much worse outcomes for everyone involved. Overall, it will improve California's second longest river, the San Joaquin, and will help maintain a stable water supply for Valley farmers. "Finally, the bill includes a provision to add 85,000 acres of wilderness in the Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Park. 40,000 of these acres will be a new wilderness area, and will be named after former Congressman John Krebs who served two terms in Congress representing the San Joaquin Valley and the central Sierra Nevada mountains. This new acreage becomes part of the Mineral King Wilderness Area, which Congressman Krebs created to protect from development during his time in office. Therefore, it is fitting and appropriate we name this area after him.”
03.09.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C.—On Friday March 6th, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) sent a letter to President Barack Obama requesting he create a federal economic disaster designation and declare the San Joaquin Valley its first designee. After sending the letter, Costa released the following statement. “A combination of home foreclosures, a lasting drought, and a precipitous drop in dairy prices has put our Valley in the middle of a treacherous economic storm. While there are many parts of our nation feeling the effects of a poor economy, the San Joaquin Valley is seeing disproportionate levels of unemployment and foreclosures, almost at greater rates than any region in America. Congressman Cardoza and I will be introducing legislation to declare the Central Valley a federal economic disaster area. “We also feel that President Obama has the power to use and expand an Executive Order signed by President Clinton to bring more federal resources to the Valley. I know that we cannot simply throw money at the Valley and expect it to get better; however, we can use federal resources in a unique, innovative and aggressive manner to help bring our Valley out of the deep economic slump. “Finally, Congressman Cardoza and I issued another invitation for the President to come visit the San Joaquin Valley to witness the economic problems first hand. We are hopeful he will accept this invitation, and work with us to improve the disastrous economic conditions.” Rep. Costa's Letter to President Obama Regarding Economic Emergency Declaration
03.05.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressmen Jim Costa (D-Fresno) and Adam Putnam (R-Fla.) introduced legislation to modernize America’s food safety network. Continued incidences of food-borne illness have called for Congressional action to maintain the safety and security of America’s food supply. To address these vulnerabilities in the nation’s ability to adequately safeguard the food supply, Costa and Putnam have introduced The Safe Food Enforcement, Assessment, Standards and Targeting Act, “Safe FEAST Act,” which would establish new food safety requirements for domestically produced and imported food to identify and prevent potential sources of food-borne illness. For the first time, the measure grants the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) statutory power to recall contaminated food in the case of adulteration. “Although American food still continues to be among the safest in the world, it is not surprising that recent food safety problems have caused Americans to lose confidence in our nation’s ability to keep our food safe,” said Costa. “We lack a system which ensures the best management practices and facilitates a strong relationship between federal and state agencies to better prevent and control food safety threats at all levels of food production. Quite simply, this legislation will help make the American consumer’s food supply even safer by preventing these problems before they occur.” “This is the kind of meaningful legislation that comes from people and groups working together in the common good,” said Putnam. “Our bill gives powerful new tools to the FDA and it establishes scientific-based standards for all food producers along the food chain to adhere to modern risk analysis and prevention practices. It’s a win-win-win approach that will mean American consumers can have an even higher level of confidence than ever before in the safety and quality of the food they eat.” To ensure that food products coming into the United States from international sources are safe, imported goods would have to adhere to the same safety and quality standards as set by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The Foreign Suppliers Quality Assurance Program would verify that all imported goods meet FDA safety requirements and requires food importers to complete a foreign supplier food safety plan, documenting the food safety measures and controls for FDA review. The bill includes a Mandatory Food Risk Assessment and Preventative Controls Plan that requires all domestic and foreign food companies selling food in U.S. to conduct a food safety risk analysis that identifies potential sources of contamination, outlines appropriate food safety controls, and requires verification that the food safety controls implemented are adequate to address the risks of food-borne contamination. It establishes new standards for fruits and vegetables, including updating Good Agricultural Practices Guidance for safe production and issuance of regulation on safety standards, when risk and science demonstrate standards are needed. Increases coordination between, federal, state and foreign governments to ensure that standards and allows for variances to meet local growing conditions. Finally, the Safe FEAST Act would grant FDA authority to access food safety production records during emergencies and deny importation of goods if strict food safety standards are not met and directs the agency to adopt a risk-based approach to inspections, giving greater scrutiny to facilities posing greater risk.
03.02.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that two new employees have joined his staff. Jaclyn Murray, a legislative assistant, will serve as Costa’s resources, water, energy, and environment staffer, while Ben Parmentier will take on Costa’s housing, financial services, budget, labor and veterans issues. Murray is a native of McFarland, CA and is the daughter of Tom and Cammie Murray. She attended North High School in Bakersfield, CA, graduating in 1999. Murray received a degree in political science from the University of San Diego in 2005, and is currently pursuing a master of public administration at American University. She is expected to complete the program in May 2009. Murray is an avid hiker, backpacker and skier. Parmentier previously worked in Costa’s Fresno District office as a constituent services assistant and then last fall, worked as field director on Costa’s successful reelection campaign. He graduated Gilroy High School in 2004 and then attended Fresno State. In May 2008, Parmentier received a degree in communications. Parmentier held a number of different jobs while in college, including working at a sandwich shop, outlet mall, and as a mystery shopper. His hobbies include skiing and cooking.
02.25.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Following the speech President Barack Obama gave before a joint session of Congress, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) released the following statement. “President Obama laid out in an honest and forthright manner the many challenges our nation is facing today and his vision on how to combat them. As he stated, here at home we face concerns on affordable health care; we still depended too heavily on foreign sources of energy, and our national debt is growing faster than ever. Despite how insurmountable these issues may seem, I agree with the President and believe that Americans have the ability and desire to overcome these obstacles. “More specifically, I am very glad the President stated that the borrow-and-spend strategy of the last Administration will come to an end, and applaud him for his pledge to cut the deficit by half in four years. As a fiscal conservative, and Blue Dog Democrat, I strongly believe that we must tighten spending and bring our national deficit down as quickly as possible, as large deficits are a major threat to our national security. As Congress begins to debate the budget over the next few weeks, we will need to take a hard look at both ineffective and wasteful government programs and eliminate them. This will require our government to make difficult choices, but our nation cannot continue to run itself by borrowing at home and from foreign countries. “I look forward to working with all of my colleagues – Republicans and Democrats – in Congress, and with the President, as we move our country through this difficult time and guide it to brighter days.”
02.19.2009	MODESTO, CA – Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) and Congressman Dennis Cardoza (D-Atwater) announced today a $147,000 grant from the California Endowment to the Valley Coalition for a UC Merced Medical School. The grant will ensure communities throughout the San Joaquin are involved in the planning of the future UC Merced medical school. Congressman Costa and Congressman Cardoza also applauded the Coalition’s adoption of a formal resolution calling for an acceleration of the school’s development as well as increased clinical opportunities for students in the San Joaquin Valley. “This grant money is great news for UC Merced and our Valley,” Congressman Costa said. “A projected shortfall of up to 17,000 physicians in California by 2015 will have a disproportionately adverse impact on the rapidly growing San Joaquin Valley, where access to healthcare is already 31 percent lower than the state average. The medical school at UC Merced, incorporating clinical education at UCSF's Fresno Medical Education Program would help to ease this looming physician crisis.” “This marks a significant step forward,” said Congressman Cardoza. “For far too long our Valley residents have been underserved for health care. Today’s resolution shows that the Valley is unified in our call to have the medical school here by 2015. The grant award also means that communities throughout the Valley will have a direct say in the planning process.” The Valley Coalition for a UC Merced Medical School is a valleywide effort comprised of nearly 200 elected officials, cities and counties, health care professionals and community groups that have joined for the purpose of supporting the development of the UC Merced medical school. Recently, UC Merced contracted the Washington Advisory Group to provide recommendations for the medical school’s development. That report recommends a three-phased plan calling for a fully developed independent medical school by 2020. Earlier this month, University of California President Mark Yudof offered his support to the plan and pledged to help implement it. Today, the Valley Coalition for a UC Merced Medical School also offered its support to the plan with its first formal resolution. Further, the coalition’s resolution called for incorporation of medical education and clinical work at UCSF, Fresno and other locations in the San Joaquin Valley, as appropriate, during the “Phase II” UC Davis-UC Merced partnership program. The resolution also calls for the medical school to be developed and fully independent by 2015, five years earlier than called for in the WAG report. Interest in the medical school has been significant in the eight-county region of the San Joaquin Valley and Mariposa. The $147,000 grant from the California Endowment, a statewide foundation, will ensure that communities throughout the San Joaquin Valley are involved in the planning and their individual needs are taken into consideration. “This is a great day not only for UC Merced and its future students but for every citizen of the San Joaquin Valley who will have greater access to the high-quality health care they deserve,” said Congressman Cardoza.
02.17.2009	Package Brings Millions In Federal Investment To The San Joaquin Valley WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives passed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (the Act) by a vote of 246 to 183. Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) voted in favor of the legislation. The bill is expected to create and save 3.5 million jobs, provide 95% of American workers an immediate tax cut, make investments in infrastructure, provide funding for renewable energy projects, and tax breaks for home purchases. “The House and Senate have worked hard to come up with a final version of this bill that is much better than what was first passed in the House, although it is not perfect,” said Costa. “I believe this legislation, once signed into law, will help our nation, our state and our Valley weather this economic storm.” California has thousands of infrastructure projects that can be funded through the Act. In fact, the state has identified more than $44 billion in projects which are ready to go within 120 days of enactment; Governor Schwarzenegger has stated that thousands of jobs will be created as a result of funding in the Act. The Act provides $27 billion for highway and bridge improvement, and it is estimated that California will see about $2.5 billion, with the Valley receiving approximately $200 million. Secondly, $18 billion has been allocated in the Act for clean water, flood control and environmental restoration. These are critical funds for California, which is currently suffering from a severe drought and an economic crisis. The Act also provides for $8 billion in competitive high-speed rail grants. Last November, California voters passed Proposition 1A to provide $9 billion in bonds to construct a statewide high speed rail system. Costa authored the original proposition while serving in the state legislature. “These infrastructure funds are critical for our Valley, especially the funding for high-speed rail. Each day, the strain on Valley freeways and highways is greater; federal dollars provided in this bill can help improve our roads and help the high-speed rail system to be built,” commented Costa. Over the last few years, California has become a national leader in energy efficiency and green job creation. The Act provides $3.1 billion for the State Energy Program, which provides grants to states to use to address their energy priorities and program funding to adopt renewable and efficient energy technologies. Secondly, the Act provides $20 billion in tax incentives for renewable energy and energy efficiency over the next ten years. This includes a three-year extension of the production tax credit for electricity derived from wind and for electricity derived from biomass, geothermal, hydropower, waste-to-energy and solar power. “Our nation, especially California, needs long-term energy plans to help wean us off dependence on dirty fuels and foreign oil. The use of fossil fuels will change, and multiple energy sources will be the future for our children and grandchildren. These tax provisions will help continue California’s energy program over the next few years, and make improvements on existing energy infrastructure,” stated Costa. The final version of the Act extends the existing homebuyer credit for qualifying home purchases before December 1, 2009, and increases the maximum credit amount to $8,000. California’s real estate market has suffered greatly over the past year, and this tax credit should help increase consumer confidence in the market, and get families into homes. “The Valley’s foreclosure rates are through the roof, and while this is a lower tax credit than the previous bill, we’ll take all the help we can get,” said Costa. Following the conference meeting between the House and the Senate, the final version of the Act ensures that funds for initiatives, programs, or construction will be distributed through formulas or competitive grants. There are no earmarks in the Act. How funds are spent, all announcements of contract and grant competitions and awards, formula grant allocations must be posted on a website created by President Obama. It will include the names of agency personnel to contact with concerns about infrastructure projects.
02.10.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-20), Dennis Cardoza (D-18) and George Radanovich (R-19) released the following response regarding Mr. Lloyd Carter’s inappropriate remarks at a Fresno water hearing. “As Valley residents and the grandchildren of immigrants, we are deeply disturbed by the disparaging and ill-informed comments made by Lloyd Carter. Not only were these comments insulting and misleading, but also exceptionally inappropriate coming from a public official like Mr. Carter. This illustrates the complete lack of understanding amongst many in the environmental community about what actually happens on our Valley farms. California’s farmers and farm workers are the backbone of the State’s economy. Their hard work supplies healthy and nutritious, American-grown food throughout our country and abroad. Most are hard working, church-going, upstanding individuals who are trying to feed and educate their children. They want to provide their kids with the opportunity to achieve the American dream, just like our grandparents did two generations ago. We believe Mr. Carter owes farm workers an apology. “The water shortage in California is a human tragedy; not only for the farmers and farm workers who are losing their jobs and may no longer be able to support their families, but also for citizens around the world who rely on a steady supply of fruits, vegetables, dairy and beef, all grown and raised in California. Over 300 crops are grown in the Central Valley alone, many of which are not grown anywhere else in this country. Without a reliable water supply, grapes wilt on the vine, pomegranates do not ripen, and orange trees never grow to produce fruit. The bottom line is: do we want to have a stable, safe and secure food source grown in California or do we want to be dependent on food sources from third-world countries. Without water you cannot have a secure supply of food. It is as essential as having an independent energy policy.”
02.10.2009	Blue Dog Coalition Will Discuss The Stimulus Package And Fiscal Reform WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) will join his Blue Dog Coalition colleagues in a meeting with President Barack Obama at the White House. They will be discussing the stimulus package and long-term fiscal issues facing Congress. Costa will also ask the President to visit the San Joaquin Valley. Prior to the meeting, Costa released the following statement. “The stimulus package that is before Congress is an important bill to jump start our economy, but it still needs to be improved. Some of the proposed spending is unnecessary and will not create jobs; therefore we will encourage the President to work with leaders in both parties to come to a common sense agreement on a final bill. Secondly, and just as important, we will discuss the need for strict long-term fiscal discipline and greater spending responsibility during this Congress. I strongly believe that the more debt our nation incurs, the greater risk to our overall national security. As a Blue Dog, I am committed to working with the President, and leaders in Congress to enforce the ‘pay-as-you-go’ policies and long-term economic solutions to clean up this financial mess we’ve inherited. “Finally, I will be extending an open invitation to President Obama to visit the San Joaquin Valley. My Valley colleagues and I believe that we represent a true reflection of America and I know the President can benefit from this visit and meeting with farmers, business owners and our ethnic communities that show the rich diversities of our nation.”
02.09.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Build on Unprecedented Transparency Instituted in the 110th Congress WASHINGTON – Today, Rep. Dave Obey (D-WI), Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, and Sen. Daniel Inouye (D-HI), incoming Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, announced three significant changes to further increase transparency and reduce funding levels for earmarks, building on reforms brought about in the last Congress. Previously implemented reforms: · 2007 Moratorium: In January of 2007, Democrats imposed a one-year moratorium on earmarks for 2007 until a reformed process could be put in place. · Rules for Transparency: Under the 2007 rules, each bill must be accompanied by a list identifying each earmark that it includes and which member requested it. Those lists are available online before the bill is ever voted on. In the House, each earmark on those lists is backed up by a public letter from the requesting member identifying the earmark, the entity that will receive the funds and their address, what the earmark does, and a certification that neither the requesting member nor their spouse will benefit from it financially. In the Senate, each Senator is required to send the committee a letter providing the name and location of the intended recipient, the purpose of earmark, and a letter certifying that neither the Senator nor the Senator’s immediate family has a financial interest in the item requested. The certification is available on the internet at least 48 hours prior to a floor vote on the bill. · Significant Reductions: In the 2008 bills, the total dollar amount earmarked for non-project-based accounts in appropriations bills was reduced by 43%. · Other Measures: Earmarks produced by conference committees, not in the original House or Senate bills, are clearly identified with an asterisk. Members are able to offer floor amendments on earmarks under the rules of the House and Senate. In our continuing effort to provide unprecedented transparency to the process, new reforms to begin with the 2010 bills include: · Posting Requests Online: To offer more opportunity for public scrutiny of member requests, members will be required to post information on their earmark requests on their websites at the time the request is made explaining the purpose of the earmark and why it is a valuable use of taxpayer funds. · Early Public Disclosure: To increase public scrutiny of committee decisions, earmark disclosure tables will be made publically available the same day as the House or Senate Subcommittee rather than Full Committee reports their bill or 24 hours before Full Committee consideration of appropriations legislation that has not been marked up by a Senate Subcommittee. · Further Cuts: Earmarks will be further reduced to 50% of the 2006 level for non-project-based accounts. In FY 2008, earmark funding levels were reduced by 43% below the 2006 level. Earmarks will be held below 1% of discretionary spending in subsequent years. “Today we build on the unprecedented reforms made to earmarks since Democrats took control of the Congress in 2007,” said Obey and Inouye. “These reforms mean that earmarks will be funded at a level half as high as they were in 2006, face greater public scrutiny, and members of Congress will have more time and access to more information before they vote on bills and as they prepare amendments.”
02.09.2009	Costa: This Legislation Will Provide Health Care Coverage For 11 Million Children WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) supported HR 2, the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) Reauthorization bill which was passed by the House of Representatives by a vote of 289 to 139. It now heads to the United States Senate for consideration. This bill renews and improves SCHIP, and is estimated to provide health care coverage for 11 million children. In Fiscal Year 2007, there were approximately 1,538,416 California children covered under SCHIP. “Our children are the most vulnerable people in our nation, and passage of this bill is the first step in ensuring they can receive proper health care,” said Costa. “Valley hospitals and clinics struggle to treat the uninsured and underinsured in their communities, and passage of SCHIP will appropriately fund a program that has helped to reduce the percentage of uninsured children in California from 21% to 14%.” The bill passed by the House today renews and improves SCHIP, and reauthorizes it for four and a half years – through Fiscal Year 2013. Once signed into law, it will ensure that the 7 million children who currently participate in SCHIP continue to receive coverage, and extends coverage to 4 million more uninsured children, according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office. This legislation is fully paid for with an increase in the tobacco tax and closes a loophole in Medicare that allows physicians to profit from referring their patients to hospitals in which they have an ownership interest. “Taxpayers are already paying for the health care of the uninsured in the most expensive way possible: through emergency room care. Every dollar spent on the SCHIP program helps to reduce the burden of uncompensated care born by our hospitals and health clinics by allowing uninsured children to seek early care for an illness. This is a more efficient expenditure of taxpayer dollars and a more effective way to provide healthcare,” concluded Costa.
02.09.2009	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that two grants have been awarded to the City of Fresno and Fresno County to assist states and local governments in addressing the impact of abandoned and foreclosed properties. These funds are being awarded through the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Neighborhood Stabilization Program, which is based on the number and percent of home foreclosures, homes financed by subprime mortgage loans and homes in default or delinquency. “Our Valley is being hit hard by the housing crisis sweeping our nation,” said Costa. “This grant money is going to be extremely helpful to both the City of Fresno and Fresno County in addressing abandoned and foreclosed properties.” The City of Fresno was awarded a grant of approximately $10,969,169 and Fresno County was awarded a grant of approximately $7,037,465. The City and County may use the funds to establish financing mechanisms to assist individuals in purchasing foreclosed homes, acquire and rehabilitate abandoned or foreclosed homes, establishing a land bank for foreclosed homes, demolition of blighted structures, or redevelopment of vacant and demolished properties. They will have 18 months to use the funds. Congress appropriated $3.92 billion for the program and the Department of Housing and Urban Development allocated funds to 309 grantees nationwide.
02.09.2009	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that a grant of $200,000 has been awarded to WestCare California, Inc. These funds are being awarded through the Department of Health and Human Services’ Transitional Living Program. With these funds, WestCare is required to provide youth with stable, safe living accommodations and services that help them develop the skills necessary to move to independence. “The best thing we can do to help at-risk children and young adults is to provide them with a safe and secure environment for them to grow into prosperous adults,” said Costa. “WestCare helps thousands of Valley residents every year, and I know they will be able to help many more with these funds.” In 1988, Congress created the Transitional Living Program in response to a growing number of homeless young adults. Today, this program funds organizations and shelters that serve and protect runaway, homeless, missing, and sexually exploited children and young adults. The program also provides pregnant or parenting youth with parenting skills, including child development, family budgeting, health and nutrition, and other skills to promote their long-term economic independence in order to ensure the well-being of their children. WestCare California, a Fresno-based, non-profit organization, has been providing the full continuum of substance abuse and addiction treatment services, including a broad array of health and human services, in community-based residential and outpatient treatment environments for 34 years. WestCare California’s 250 dedicated staff provides care to 27,000 clients annually at 14 sites located in Fresno, Bakersfield, Corona, Coalinga, Sacramento, Hanford, Avenal, and Corcoran.
02.09.2009	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, the United States House of Representatives passed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act by a vote of 244 to 188. Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) supported the measure. The act is an $825 billion package of tax cuts and investments and is estimated to create 3 to 4 million new jobs. “This was a difficult vote, and I would have written the bill differently. But this is a work in progress to jumpstart our sluggish economy,” said Costa. “Our Valley will benefit from this bill and the programs that will be funded once it is signed into law. From health care, to schools and infrastructure, we will see direct results from this bipartisan legislation.” The bill makes important and needed investments in many different areas, ranging from law enforcement, energy, health care, education, and infrastructure. For example, California is estimated to receive $2.8 billion in highway infrastructure investment funding, and the Valley should see around $200 million of this money. Federal money will be invested in projects that can start within thirty days, and some local projects that are “shovel ready” are sections of Highways 168, 180, 198 and 178. The bill also contains $350 million for the Navy and Marine Corps to provide sailor and Marine housing and child development facilities across the nation, including at Lemoore Naval Air Station. A Navy report from July 2008 reported waiting lists for child care in every installation across the nation. Rural water and waste disposal was funded at $1.5 billion in the bill to help communities fund drinking water and wastewater treatment systems. Delano, CA has several water treatment projects in need of funding. The bill also increases spending in Medicaid in the Federal Medical Assistance Percentage (FMAP) Program, which is the federal government’s share in the Medicaid program. It is estimated that the bill would increase the base match by 4.9 percent, thus increasing California’s federal match to 54.9%. Costa is a strong supporter of FMAP funding. The bill now moves to the Senate for consideration. Following a vote in the Senate, the bill will move to a conference to resolve differences, and then a final, identical version will be voted on by both chambers before heading to the president for his signature. “It is my hope that we can improve the balance of funding for the investment in much needed infrastructure as this measure moves along,” concluded Costa.
02.09.2009	FRESNO, CA – Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced his nominations to the United States Naval Academy and West Point. Costa nominated a total of five Valley students from Fresno and Kings County. “We had some truly outstanding young men and women apply for an academy nomination this year,” said Costa. “These students have the opportunity to obtain a world class education, and then serve our nation as military officers after graduation. I am incredibly proud of all of them, and everyone who applied.” Fresno County John Peter Jennings, III – U.S. Naval Academy Nominee John Jennings is a graduate of Coalinga High School and is a Presidential Scholar at West Hills College. Dr. Willard Clark Lewallen, President of West Hills Community College, Coalinga describes John as a “fine young man, who brings a positive attitude and enthusiasm to every activity, effort, and task in which he engages.” John is the son of John Jr. and Lori Jennings. Kings County Scott Steven Aquino – U.S. Naval Academy Nominee Scott is a senior at Hanford West High School, and is extremely active in a variety of sports. He was the captain of the school’s varsity water polo team. Scott is considered a leader and role model by his peers for his ability to excel and succeed in athletics as well as in academics. He is the son of Adan and Morena Aquino. Alexis Werner – U.S. Naval Academy Nominee Alexis is currently a senior at Lemoore Union High School, and is ranked first academically in her class. Werner has maintained a GPA above 4.0 during her entire time at Lemoore Union High. She is on the varsity soccer team at Lemoore Union High School and extensively involved in clubs and activities. Werner is described as an “uber student” by her teachers. She is the daughter of Cynthia and Mark Stack. Antonio Carlos Roa – U.S. Naval Academy Nominee Antonio is a June 2008 graduate of Hanford West High School and currently attends the Naval Academy Preparatory School (NAPS) in Newport, Rhode Island. While at Hanford West High School, Antonio was a dedicated leader in the Naval Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps (NJROTC) and was extremely active in extracurricular activities. Antonio is the son of Carlos and Maria Roa. Dustin Rodrigo Castillo – U.S. Naval Academy and West Point Academy Nominee Dustin is currently a senior at Hanford High School. Dustin was the captain of Hanford High’s varsity water polo team, and also serves as his Senior Class President and as Vice President of Kings County Youth and Government. Dustin is a considered a leader among his peers. He is the son of David and AnnaMarie Castillo.
02.09.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Following a meeting this evening with USDA Secretary Tom Vilsack, Congressmen Jim Costa (D-Fresno) Dennis Cardoza (D-Atwater), David Scott (D-GA), and Collin Peterson (D-MN), Costa released this statement. “The largest dairy state in the nation is California, and it is vital for Secretary Vilsack to understand the problems that our dairy farmers are facing today. With domestic and global demand for U.S. dairy products declining, combined with producer costs at all-time highs, we need Secretary Vilsack to exercise his authority to try and bring a sense of order to this situation. “Today’s meeting with Secretary Vilsack was a first step in addressing the problems plaguing the California dairy industry. The Secretary assured us he will use the administrative authority that is available to him to implement and utilize the programs available to alleviate the current dairy crisis in California, as well as throughout the nation. “In addition, Congressman Cardoza and I spoke with our colleagues, Subcommittee Chairman of Livestock, Dairy and Poultry Congressman Scott and Congressman Peterson, Chairman of the House Agriculture Committee, about the need to address the long-term problems facing our nation’s dairy industry. The Secretary understands the financial meltdown brought on by an imbalance of supply vs. demand, coupled with record high costs of production causing dairy farmers to lose money each month. The state and federal marketing orders are simply not supply-side sensitive enough to respond to the cyclical over-production of dairy products, therefore structural change is required. “Finally, I will continue to work closely with my Valley colleagues, new Secretary of Agriculture Vilsack and California’s milk industry to help our dairy farmers though this difficult time.”
07.30.2008	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that a grant of $24,750 has been awarded to the City of Mendota to purchase 12 security cameras for critical infrastructure and public areas for safety, as well as a toughbook laptop. These funds are being awarded through the United States Department of Agriculture under the Economic Impact Initiative Grant program. "I am very happy to hear that Mendota is receiving federal funds to protect their wastewater plant, city hall and Rojas Pierce Park," said Costa. "The best deterrent we can have to use against theft and vandalism are cameras like these." Currently, Mendota has five security cameras at the water treatment plant, but water wells and the water treatment plant have been repeatedly vandalized and copper wire has been stolen. The city is hopeful these new cameras will help deter the thefts and/or catch the criminals at city hall and the park. The laptop will be used by the plant operator to monitor the SCADA system.
07.30.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) and a bipartisan group of legislators introduced the National Conservation, Environment and Energy Independence Act. The bill takes a comprehensive approach to increase energy supply, while reducing energy demand. It also provides funding for a variety of goals, including environmental restoration, energy conservation, renewable energy, carbon capture and sequestration, and the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). "Our country is currently facing an energy crisis that is having a devastating effect on our economy, and particularly on the poor, working class, and small business owners," said Costa. "We need all the energy tools in our toolbox to help reduce our need for foreign oil, along with protecting our environment." Over the past several weeks, Costa has been working with a bipartisan group of House members to develop a common sense energy bill. The National Conservation, Environment and Energy Independence Act removes the existing moratoria on oil and natural gas production in the Outer Counter Shelf for waters 25 miles offshore and beyond. For waters that are 25 to 50 miles from shore, the bill gives states the right to opt-out and remove those areas from leasing. The bill prohibits leasing within 25 miles of a coastline. Total projected royalties for all the oil and natural gas estimated to be in the areas opened by the bill are approximately $2.6 trillion. These revenues will be distributed to the state and federal government, as well as to a variety of environmental and energy programs, as follows: ● 30% to the General Fund of the U.S. Treasury ● 30% to Producing States ● 8% for the Conservation Reserve ● 10% to the Environmental Restoration Reserve ● 15% to the Renewable Energy Reserve ● 5% to the Carbon Capture/Sequestration and Nuclear Waste Reserve ● 2% to the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program The bill also extends numerous existing tax incentives for cleaner energy production and conservation, including solar and wind power, energy efficiency measures and alternative fuel vehicles. In addition, the bill modifies the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to today's refining capabilities by exchanging 10% (70 million barrels) of the reserve's content and dedicates funds received from the exchange of supply and existing SPR funds ($1.4 billion estimated) to existing conservation, energy research and development, and energy assistance programs. Specifically, funds received will go toward programs such as wind energy research, solar energy research, marine and hydrokinetic renewable energy, geothermal energy development, and many more. "I believe this combination of increasing supply and reducing demand, which this bill does, will reduce our energy costs, along with creating new jobs," said Costa. "And even more important, this bill provides a framework for moving us toward cleaner and renewable sources of energy, and toward energy independence."
07.25.2008	FRESNO, CA - Today, the House Subcommittee on Water and Power held a field hearing in Fresno, CA on the federal government's response to the California drought. Members heard from local officials, farmers, residents, and water experts on how the drought is impacting the Valley's cities and the economy. Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno), a member of the Subcommittee, was in attendance. "This current water shortage is having a devastating effect for our farmers and farm-workers, and as a result, everyone living in the Valley," said Costa. "A recent study commissioned by the San Luis & Delta-Mendota Water Authority makes this clear. The study found that the estimated production losses for Westlands Water District Alone would translate into a $65.9 million reduction in regional economic output and an estimated 567 lost jobs." Costa's district includes three of the top agriculture producing counties in the country, and agriculture in the San Joaquin Valley is a $20 billion industry accounting for almost 40% of the Valley's employment. The Subcommittee heard directly from farmers and community leaders how the drought will affect their industry and their cities. "If we want to have a safe and reliable food supply here in the United States, we need to support and protect our farmers and their needs - particularly in established and highly productive areas of our country, such as the San Joaquin Valley," said Costa. Much of California's water infrastructure was built when the state's population was just 20 million people. Today, the state has a population of about 37 million people, and is projected to be at 47 million people in 2030. The Valley is currently one of the fastest growing regions of the state. "I believe we are on course for a water crisis that will mirror all too well the energy crisis that we are currently facing," added Costa. "Government has delayed for too long. We need to fix the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta, using good science that takes into account all of the factors affecting the health of that ecosystem. We also need to increase our water storage capacity, improve conveyance, and give greater flexibility to state and federal agencies to respond to water shortages." "This is not an issue just for our Valley, but for our nation as a whole, and we must act now to ensure our future success."
07.25.2008	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that two separate grants of $321,221 each have been awarded to the Metropolitan Medical Response System jurisdictions in Bakersfield and Fresno. These funds are being awarded through the United States Department of Homeland Security Homeland Security Grant Program. These grants are for fiscal year 2008. "It is vital to have first responders on the scene quickly during a catastrophic event," said Costa. "The better prepared our police, fire, and ambulance crews are to handle many casualties and problems, the better off we will all be in an emergency situation." The Department of Homeland Security announced $1.8 billion in grants today to increase state, urban, and tribal government efforts to improve their readiness, response, and recover capabilities for natural and man-made disasters. Approximately $39.8 million was appropriated to the Metropolitan Medical Response System Program (MMRS) to be divided up among 124 MMRS jurisdictions around the nation to enhance mass casualty preparedness and response capabilities. The state of California also received approximately $110,090,000 million under the State Homeland Security Program to enhance state, territorial and local capabilities through planning, equipment, training, and exercise activities. These funds will be broken down by the state government and 80% of the funding will go directly to localities.
07.15.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Next week, the House Subcommittee on Water and Power will hold a field hearing on the federal government's response to the California drought. Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) and Valley Representatives Dennis Cardoza (D-Merced), George Radanovich (R-Mariposa), Kevin McCarthy (R-Bakersfield) and Devin Nunes (R-Tulare) requested this hearing last month to ensure the federal government is informed about the drought and its impact on the people who live and work in the Valley. Costa is a member of the Subcommittee and will attend the field hearing. "The drought is having a dramatic impact on our crops, and, as a result, on farmers and farm workers and the overall economy of the Valley," said Costa. "We need to find both short-term and long-term solutions to this problem, and it is my hope that this hearing can help us do that." Last month, Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger declared a state of emergency in the nine Valley counties due to two years of below-average rainfall, very low snowmelt runoff, and court-ordered restrictions on water transfers. The Governor's drought designation came after the driest spring on record and an announcement by the Federal Bureau of Reclamation that they would be further reducing Central Valley Project water deliveries to agricultural users south of the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta. Fresno Mayor Alan Autry will welcome the Subcommittee and give an introductory statement. The following individuals will testify before the Subcommittee: Panel 1 The Honorable Phil Larson, Fresno County Supervisor, Fresno, California The Honorable Robert Silva, Mayor, City of Mendota, Mendota, California Mr. Roger Palomino, Economic Opportunities Commission & Drought Relief Strategies Group, Fresno, California, accompanied by Mr. Carlos Ramirez, Farm Worker Mr. Cort Blackburn, Farmer, Firebaugh, California Mr. Kole Upton, East Central Valley Resident, Chowchilla, California Panel 2 Mr. Dan Nelson, Executive Director, San Luis- Delta Mendota Water Authority, Los Banos, California Mr. Tom Birmingham, General Manager, Westlands Water District, Fresno, California Mr. Ron Jacobsma, General Manager, Friant Water Authority, Lindsay, California Philip Duffy, PhD, Chemistry, Materials, and Life Sciences Directorate, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore, California Panel 3 Mr. Don Glaser, Mid-Pacific Regional Director, U.S. Bureau of Reclamation, Sacramento, California accompanied by Ms. Claudia C. Faunt, Ph.D., P.E., Hydrologist U.S. Geological Survey California Water Science Center Mr. John Smythe, Farm Services Agency State Executive Director, U.S. Department of Agriculture, California, accompanied by Mr. Jim Otto, Senior Risk Management Specialist, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Davis, California Mr. Lester Snow, Director, California Department of Water Resources, Sacramento, California WHO: House Subcommittee on Water and Power WHAT: Field Hearing on California's Drought WHEN: Monday, July 21st, 2008 at 10:00am WHERE: Fresno City Council Chambers 2600 Fresno Street Fresno, CA 93721
07.11.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Last week, President George W. Bush signed into law legislation that allows the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to continue the practice of funding clean diesel projects as part of environmental enforcement settlements. This bill was introduced by Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) in partnership with Senator Tom Carper (D-DE), who introduced the same version in the United States Senate. "I am very happy with the President's signature on this important piece of legislation," said Costa. "By continuing to allow diesel emission reduction projects as part of settlement agreements, we allow additional funding, from private corporations, for these types of projects - which help ensure that diesel vehicles emit fewer pollutants into our air, and that we see clearer skies in our future." This successful program has funded more than $60 million in diesel retrofit vehicles over the past few years. Under EPA's estimates, diesel retrofit projects have a 13-to-1 benefit-to-cost ratio, meaning the $60 million has resulted in $780 million in health benefits ranging from reduced asthma cases to fewer cardiopulmonary deaths. In 2006, the EPA determined that if the agency received a specific appropriation for the Diesel Emissions Reduction Act's (DERA) grant program, the EPA could not allow diesel projects as part of an enforcement settlement. Costa's bill gives the EPA authority to continue to fund diesel retrofits through these settlements.
06.30.2008	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that a grant of $378,600 has been awarded to the Sanger Unified School District to help establish and expand elementary and secondary school counseling programs. These funds are being awarded through the United States Department of Education under their Elementary and Secondary School Counseling grant program. The funds will be used to create counseling services at Sanger Unified schools and will be designed and implemented along with the involvement of parents and students. "This is great news for Sanger," said Costa. "This program will expand needed counseling programs and help recruit more qualified school counselors who will use new resources to reach our students and assist them through their school day." With these funds, schools will be able to hire qualified adolescent psychiatrists, creating better counseling services and closing the gap with better funded school districts. Schools that provide counseling services to students have been found to improve both student attendance and academic performance. This grant will last a total of three years.
06.30.2008	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that a grant of $85,000 has been awarded to the City of San Joaquin to provide technical assistance for a vocational training program which will expand and train the workforce for small businesses located in San Joaquin, California. These funds are being awarded through the United States Department of Agriculture under the Rural Business Enterprise Grant Program. "This is great news for San Joaquin," said Costa. "Small businesses are a vital cog in our Valley's economy, and any kind of additional training that we can give our local workforce can only help our entrepreneurs." The City of San Joaquin will hire vocational skills trainers who will develop and implement an on-the-job training program that will enroll and train at least 50 local residents in a program consisting of the following program skills: industrial maintenance mechanic/welding, security guard, child development/parenting, janitorial service, clerical/basic computer skills and truck driving. It is also anticipated that the city will partner with West Hills College, Golden Plains Unified School District, Proteus, Inc. and other related service providers to prove the training.
06.30.2008	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that a grant of $50,000 has been awarded to the City of Parlier to provide technical assistance for a vocational training program which will expand and train the workforce for small businesses located in Parlier, California. These funds are being awarded through the United States Department of Agriculture under the Rural Business Enterprise Grant Program. "I am very happy to hear that Parlier is receiving federal funds to jumpstart their small businesses," said Costa. "The more we can help our entrepreneurs the better off our Valley's economy will be." Funds will be used to provide technical assistance for a small business assistance and façade improvement program to promote economic development for small businesses located in Parlier. The City of Parlier hopes to include upgrading the commercial district by assisting four business owners improve their storefronts, assisting three business owners with their site plan, as well as zoning and planning applications for expansion of their businesses.
06.30.2008	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that a grant of $224,985 has been awarded to California State University, Bakersfield to prepare low-income, first-generation college students and students from groups underrepresented in graduate education, for doctoral study. These funds are being awarded through the United States Department of Education under the Ronald E. McNair Post-Baccalaureate Achievement Program. It is anticipated that the grant will be for a total of four years. "This is great news for Cal State Bakersfield," said Costa. "I've often said that the best investment we can make is in education for our young people. It is grant programs like this that will ensure doctoral programs will be available to anyone who wishes to pursue a Ph.D." McNair Program participants must be low-income, first-generation college students or members of a group that is underrepresented in graduate education. All students must be currently enrolled in a degree program at an institution of higher education that participates in the student financial assistance programs authorized under Title IV of the Higher Education Act. Some program services include, research opportunities to prepare for doctoral study, internships, tutoring, mentoring programs with faculty members, seminars designed to prepare participants for doctoral study, academic counseling, assistance to participants in securing admission to graduate programs, financial assistance, and exposure to cultural events and other academic programs not usually available to project participants.
06.12.2008	Legislation Includes Funding for High-Speed Rail Development In America WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 6003, the Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 2008, legislation to authorize appropriations for Amtrak for fiscal years 2009 to 2013. The bill also authorizes $1.75 billion in grants over the next five years to states and/or Amtrak to finance the construction and equipment for high-speed rail. Amtrak's authorization expired in December 2002, and was not reauthorized during the last three Congresses. As the nation's only provider of intercity passenger rail service, the lack of funding caused the system to suffer. This reauthorization creates a new capital grants program for states to provide new or improved intercity passenger rail. Amtrak reauthorization passed the United States Senate last November. It is expected the House and Senate will soon begin a conference on both bills in the near future. Once an agreement is reached, both chambers will vote on the agreed bill before sending it to the White House for signature "California has the highest Amtrak usage of any state in our nation, and I know that we will see the benefits once this bill is signed into law," said Costa. "This bill is a great first step for the federal government to finance the development and construction of high-speed rail. It should be clear to everyone that we are in a world-wide energy crisis and cheap gasoline is a thing of the past; thus, the need to create a true inter-modal, interconnected, 21st century system of transportation with high speed rail as an integral part." One key section authorizes $1.75 billion grant funding for the 11 high-speed rail corridors in the nation. States and/or Amtrak will be allowed to finance the construction an equipment needed for high-speed rail. The federal share of the grants is up to 80 percent, and the Department of Transportation will award the grants on a competitive basis using economic performance, expected ridership and other factors as criteria. "Our friends in Europe and Japan over the past four decades have had great successes with their high-speed rail systems, and both combined will soon have over 10,000 miles of high-speed rail connecting all of the major metropolitan areas," added Costa. "A high-speed rail network throughout our nation will be not only an economic boon, but a real shot-in-the-arm for our transportation system as a whole."
06.10.2008	Legislation Names Wilderness Area After Former Congressman John Krebs WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, the House of Representatives passed the Sequoia-Kings Canyon National Park Wilderness Act by voice vote. This legislation, sponsored by Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno), designates nearly 115,000 acres of wilderness in Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Parks. Approximately 45,000 acres of the wilderness established in the bill will be incorporated into the currently existing Sequoia and Kings Canyon Wilderness area. The other 70,000 acres will be a new wilderness area, named after former Congressman John Krebs. "Sequoia-Kings Canyon is one of the crown jewels of our National Park system, and the new designated wilderness areas will ensure it is protected for generations to come," said Costa. "Congressman Krebs worked to protect this area while he was in Congress, so it's fitting and appropriate that we set aside land and name it after him." It is unknown when the Senate will take up legislation, but the Energy and Natural Resources will hold a hearing on the Senate companion bill, S. 1774 sponsored by Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA), on June 17th, 2008. The wilderness areas designated by this Act include some spectacular areas within the Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Parks. The Redwood Canyon area contains Redwood Mountain Grove, the largest stand of Giant Sequoia within the parks. The Redwood Canyon area also includes over 75 known caves, including the longest cave in California with over 21 miles of surveyed passage. The Hockett Plateau includes vast rolling forests of lodgepole pine surrounding spectacular sub-alpine meadows. The area is a favorite destination for equestrians, backpackers, and anglers. Former Congressman Krebs represented the Fresno area, including the Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Park, from 1975 till 1979. He is 81 years old and currently living in Fresno.
05.19.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressmen Jim Costa (D-Fresno) called on all residents of the San Joaquin Valley to join in celebrating Jewish American Heritage Month, which begins today. Costa released the following statement to celebrate and honor Jewish culture in America. "When the first Jewish settlers came to this land over 350 years ago, they sought a new world to practice their faith freely and without persecution. Since then, Jews have made numerous contributions in technology, literature, entertainment, politics and medicine which add to the fabric of American life. "The history of our nation is founded upon the role immigrants played, and the United States is stronger because Jewish people from all over the world have, and continue to become American citizens. During this month, we celebrate the rich history of the American Jewish community and pay tribute to all they have done for our nation. "It is my hope that this month provides a framework for all Americans to discuss Jewish culture, and we will end the ignorance and intolerance that ultimately leads to anti-Semitism."
05.19.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that the application period for the Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) National Preparedness Directorate Competitive Training Grant Program (CTGP) opened today. These grants will provide approximately $27.2 million to address homeland security training needs to prevent, protect and respond to acts of terrorism and catastrophic events. "Grants like this are vital to localities to train for potential attacks or tragic events," said Costa. "I encourage local governments and organizations to apply for this grant and ensure our Valley is prepared for any kind of unforeseen catastrophic occurrence." CTGP awards funds to competitively selected applicants to develop and deliver innovative training programs addressing high priority national homeland security training needs. CTGP supports FEMA's National Training Program defined in the Post Katrina Emergency Management Reform Act of 2006 (Section 648(a)).This program provides funds to support training initiatives that are national in scope and further the DHS mission of preparing the nation to prevent, protect against, respond to, and recover from catastrophic risks posed by man, nature and technology. State, local, tribal and territorial governments, national associations, higher education institutions, nonprofits and the private sector are eligible. Eligible entities may apply for funding through the Grants.gov portal, accessible on the Internet at https://www.grants.gov. Applications can be received no later than 8:00pm EST on June 9, 2008.
05.14.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressmen Jim Costa (D-Fresno) and Dennis Cardoza (D-Merced) applauded the decision of the University of California's Board of Regents to authorize UC Merced, the newest UC campus, to continue planning for a medical school. The next phase of planning will allow UC Merced to create a medical school planning office, develop curriculum, and prepare a full proposal and business plan. "Today's decision by the UC Board of Regents is going to set our Valley on the right path to curb the physician shortage we are experiencing. I applaud their decision, and am looking forward to the first medical school students to set foot on the UC Merced campus," said Costa. "This is big news for the entire region and I strongly support the regents' decision. The Valley is the epicenter of California's healthcare shortage. Establishing a medical school at UC Merced is the single most important thing that we can do to address the chronic physician shortage across the San Joaquin Valley," said Cardoza. In March of this year Congressmen Cardoza and Costa brought together the Valley Coalition for UC Merced Medical School with the purpose of establishing a medical school at UC Merced that will meet the unique healthcare needs of the state and region. The Coalition, chaired by Bill Lyons Jr. and Bryn Forhan, is comprised of distinguished business and community leaders committed to bringing a medical school to UC Merced. A projected shortfall of up to 17,000 physicians in California by 2015 will have an adverse and disproportionate impact on the rapidly growing San Joaquin Valley, where access to healthcare is already 31 percent lower than the state average. Access to specialists in the Valley is 51 percent lower than in the rest of the state.
05.08.2008	Washington, D.C. - Today, members of the fiscally conservative Democratic Blue Dog Coalition honored California Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) for his leadership in restoring fiscal responsibility and accountability to the federal government. As a leading member of the Blue Dogs and senior member of the House Agriculture Committee, Representative Costa has made significant strides in restoring the fiscal stability and economic security of the United States by implementing common-sense policies such as pay-as-you-go (PAYGO) budgeting. Rep. Costa recently helped craft a responsible Farm Bill that complies with PAYGO rules and adheres to the standards of fiscal discipline that the Blue Dogs have so fervently advocated throughout the 110th Congress. "As a leading member of the Blue Dog Coalition, Representative Costa has played a major role in putting our country back on track to economic stability after years of reckless fiscal practices by President Bush and the Republican majority in Congress," said Representative Mike Ross, Blue Dog Co-Chair for Communications. "With the Farm Bill, Rep. Costa demonstrated that he is willing to make the difficult decisions necessary to restore the fiscal integrity of this country." "The Blue Dog Coalition is a powerful voice in the House of Representatives, and I am very proud to be a member," said Costa. "Restoring fiscal discipline to our government is the first step to securing the future of this nation for our children and grandchildren. With the President incurring more foreign-held debt during his time in office than the previous 42 presidents combined, my fellow Blue Dogs and I know it's time to get a handle on our spending, and we need to work in a bipartisan fashion to get our fiscal house in order. I will continue to work hard to ensure PAYGO standards are upheld with each and every bill we pass, and look forward to continued work with my Blue Dog colleagues pursuing additional strategies with other coalitions for our nation's financial future." Under the leadership of Representative Costa and the Blue Dog Coalition, the House rules package for the 110th Congress includes key principles of the Coalition's plan to restore fiscal responsibility and accountability to the federal government. Specifically, the package requires pay-as-you-go budget discipline, known as "PAYGO," with no new deficit spending. This rule was in place when the nation had its first balanced budget in nearly 30 years from 1998 to 2001. The fiscally conservative Democratic Blue Dog Coalition was formed in 1995 with the goal of representing the center of the House of Representatives and appealing to the mainstream values of the American public. The Blue Dogs are dedicated to a core set of beliefs that transcend partisan politics, including a deep commitment to the financial stability and national security of the United States. Currently there are 47 members of the Blue Dog Coalition. Representative Costa is currently featured on the Blue Dog Coalition website, located at https://www.house.gov/ross/BlueDogs/.
05.08.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) sent a letter to Ambassador Marie L. Yovanovich, the new nominee to be the United States Ambassador to the Republic of Armenia. Costa asked Ambassador Yovanovich to answer questions about her feelings on the events that happened in Turkey between 1915 and 1923. "It is important that the United States fill this empty diplomatic position in Yerevan, Armenia," said Costa. "But before she is confirmed by the United States Senate, it is critical for my constituents and me to know her thoughts on the first genocide of the 20th century: the Armenian Genocide." Ambassador Marie L. Yovanovitch of Connecticut, is a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Counselor, and was nominated on June 3, 2005 to serve as the next Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kyrgyz Republic. She was confirmed by the United States Senate on June 30, 2005. The text of Costa's letter is below. The Honorable Marie L. Yovanovich Ambassador to the Kyrgyz Republic 2201 "C" Street, NW Washington, DC 20520 Dear Ambassador Yovanovich: Congratulations on your recent nomination to be our Ambassador to the Republic of Armenia. Your experience and current service as Ambassador to the Kyrgyz Republic makes you an ideal candidate to serve in Armenia. As you are well aware, the United States has not had an Ambassador in Yerevan since former Ambassador John M. Evans correctly stated the slaughter of 1.5 million Armenians between 1915 and 1923 was the first acknowledged genocide of the 20th century. I believe it is in the best interest of our nation to have this position filled, but it is also important that my constituents know your views of the Armenian Genocide, as this issue can strengthen or hurt our relationship with the Republic of Armenia and the Armenian-American community. It is, by any reasonable standard, established history that between 1915 and 1923 the Ottoman Empire systematically killed an estimated 1.5 million Armenians and drove hundreds of thousands of others into exile from their ancestral homeland. The record of this atrocity is well documented in the United States Archives and has been universally accepted in the International Association of Genocide Scholars and the broader historical and academic communities. Two days after the Ottoman Empire launched the genocide, the New York Times reported a story with the headline "Kurds Massacre More Armenians", and followed up this story for the next year with reports of the mass slaughter occurring in the Ottoman Empire. On October 4th, 1915, the Times ran a front page article about a report from the Committee on Armenian Atrocities discussing exactly what was happening to Armenians in Turkey. "The report tells of children under 15 years of age thrown into the Euphrates to be drowned; of women forced to desert infants in arms and to leave them by the roadside to die; of young women and girls appropriated by the Turks, thrown into harems, attacked, or else sold to the highest bidder, and of men murdered and tortured." My district is home to many of Armenian-Americans, and many want to know your views on the Armenian Genocide. I would like you to respond to the questions below so I can get an insight on your opinion of the Armenian Genocide and how you plan to resolve this ongoing issue between Turkey and Armenia. 1. Under the 1948 Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, which the U.S. is a party, it was decided that genocide occurs when three criteria are met. In your view, does the killing and exile of 1.5 million Armenians meet these criteria? If it does not, please explain why it does not. 2. On March 15, 2007, Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian Affairs Daniel Fried testified before the House Foreign Affairs Committee and stated that the question of the Armenian Genocide "should be resolved not by politicians, but through heartfelt introspection by historians, philosophers, and common people." However, in 1998, a group of 150 scholars of history, theology and law encouraged their governments to officially recognize the Armenian Genocide as such. Is this the type of "heartfelt introspection" from "historians, philosophers, and common people" that Secretary Fried spoke of? If so, why has the United States not recognized the Armenian Genocide? If it does not, please explain why. 3. Have you done any personal research on the Armenian Genocide? If so, what is your personal opinion about the events that occurred between 1915 and 1923? 4. What is your plan to strengthen ties with the Armenian-American community? 5. Is there a plan to bring Turkey to the table and discuss with them the facts of the Armenian Genocide? A United States ambassador to a foreign nation has to clearly know and understand the pulse, feeling and thoughts of those nations' citizens to effectively design a diplomatic program while they are working there. For example, an ambassador to Cambodia would need to acknowledge their genocide because it has shaped the psychology of that nation today. It has shaped the way the citizens of Cambodia look at world events, political threats, cooperation with other nations, and trade policies. The same is true for Israel or Rwanda. Denying a traumatic event such as genocide, one cannot create, nor implement, honest and effective diplomacy, nor gain the trust of that nation in conducting bilateral relations. Thank you for your time. I look forward to your quick reply. Sincerely, JIM COSTA Member of Congress
05.07.2008	FRESNO, CA - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that Johnny Reyes of Hanford, CA is the winner of this year's Congressional Art Competition. Reyes' sketch, titled "Thinking of You", was inspired by a letter his grandfather sent while serving in the Pacific Theater of World War II. His artwork, along with winning artwork from around the nation, will be on display in the Cannon tunnel for one year. Reyes' grandfather will accompany Reyes and his mother to Washington, D.C. to attend an official ribbon cutting ceremony which will display Reyes' drawing. "This year, my office received a record number of entries for the Congressional Art Competition," said Costa. "It is great to see all the artistic ability that young men and women in the 20th Congressional District have, and I am looking forward to walking by Johnny's artwork on my way to the Capitol over the next year." Since 1982, the Congressional Art Competition has honored the creative talents of thousands of high school students across the nation. Local competitions are voluntarily hosted by Members of Congress in their home districts. In June, the winning artwork is sent to Washington, and winners are invited to the Capitol for a ribbon-cutting ceremony and Congressional reception. The competition receives over 500 entries every year. Reyes' artwork will replace "Time Flies", a piece created by Saranpreet Nagra of Selma, California. Reyes is a senior at Hanford West High School, and is the son of Candy Valdez of Hanford, California.
04.24.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C.-Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) made the following statement on the Floor of the House of Representatives regarding the 93rd anniversary of the start of the Armenian Genocide. Costa is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and supported H. Res. 106, a resolution recognizing the Armenian Genocide in the United States, when it came before him in Committee last October. "Madam Speaker, I rise today to commemorate the 93rd anniversary of the start of the Armenian Genocide, which was the first genocide of the 20th century and sadly, the template for a cycle of genocide that continues to this very day. "It is, by any reasonable standard, established history that between 1915 and 1923 the Ottoman Empire systematically killed an estimated 1.5 million Armenians and drove hundreds of thousands of others into exile from their ancestral homeland. The record of this atrocity is well documented in the United States Archives and has been universally accepted in the International Association of Genocide Scholars and the broader historical and academic communities. "However, there is still debate around the world, including here in our nation, on whether this incident actually qualifies as genocide. On April 26, 1915, the New York Times reported on the first reported purges of Armenians in Ottoman Turkey. Later in 1915, the Times ran a front page article about a report from the Committee on Armenian Atrocities discussing exactly what was happening to Armenians in Turkey. ‘The report tells of children under 15 years of age thrown into the Euphrates to be drowned; of women forced to desert infants in their arms and to leave them by the roadside to die; of young women and girls appropriated by the Turks, thrown into harems, attacked or else sold to the highest bidder, and of men murdered and tortured.' "One can debate specific historical incidents, but growing up in Fresno, California, the land of William Saroyan, I heard stories shared by grandparents from the Kezerian, Koligian and Abramhian families about being forced to leave their homes, the stories of the long marches, and the random murders. Clearly, they believed there was a systematic approach to eliminate the Armenian communities in places that had been their homes and farms for centuries. My Armenian friends believe this systematic approach was among the first genocides of the 20th century, and so do I. "Around the world, in the single, longest lasting and far-reaching campaign of genocide denial, Turkey seeks to block recognition of this travesty. It's against the law to even mention the Armenian Genocide in Turkey. The Armenian Genocide involved the issue of man's injustice to mankind, and it continued to occur throughout the 20th century in the Holocaust, Cambodia, Rwanda, Bosnia, and now in Darfur. As leaders, we must confront this and not allow Turkey to continue to stand alone and ask us to believe that the Armenian Genocide was not genocide. "In standing up to this policy of denial, we, of course, honor the martyrs of the genocide and we encourage our Turkish allies and friends to come to terms with their past. And, in a very powerful and significant way, we reinforce our own vital role, as Americans, in leading the international community toward unconditional opposition to all instances of genocide. "Last October, the House Foreign Affairs Committee passed H. Res. 106, a resolution to recognize the Armenian Genocide in the United States. Unfortunately, this bill has yet to come before the full House for a vote. Supporters of this resolution are constantly told that now isn't the time to recognize the genocide, that scholars, not Congress, should determine if this event was genocide, or that passage of this resolution will hurt our relationship with Turkey. I could not disagree more with these statements. "First, there is never a ‘right time' to recognize genocide. Ninety-three years have passed since the start events occurred, and we cannot wait around for a convenient moment to recognize this truly catastrophic historical event. Secondly, the scholars have spoken and the historical record is clear and thoroughly documented. And finally, we have seen over and over again that Turkey's warning of disastrous consequences are dramatically overstated. In fact, in nearly every instance, Turkey's bilateral trade has gone up with each of the countries that have recognized the Armenian Genocide - including Canada, Italy, France, Russia, and Belgium. "Genocide is not something that can simply swept under the rug and forgotten. We need leaders around the world to not only recognize it, but to condemn it so the world can truly say "Never Again." The United States cannot continue its policy of denial regarding the Armenian Genocide, and I encourage passage of H. Res. 106 to recognize the Armenian Genocide in our nation."
04.23.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) and Adam Putnam (R-Fla.) introduced legislation to modernize America's food safety network. The Safe Food Enforcement, Assessment, Standards and Targeting Act, "Safe FEAST Act," would establish new food safety requirements for domestically produced and imported food to identify and prevent potential sources of food-borne illness. For the first time, the measure grants the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) statutory power to recall contaminated food in the case of adulteration. Costa a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Putnam, Chairman of the Republican Conference said they expect the bipartisan measure to earn support among consumers and industry groups. "The last time our food safety laws had major reforms, President Eisenhower was in office. Much has changed since then; American consumers deserve to have confidence in their food supply and American farmers and processors are doing everything possible to produce the safest food in the world," said Costa. "This is a bill to ensure the highest level of food safety for our nation's food supply," said Putnam. "Cases of food-borne illness present a health risk to consumers and risk consumer confidence in our food supply. The need for this legislation is clear." Nearly 25,000 cases of food-borne illness were reported in the United States during 2006, he noted "What is lacking," said Costa, "is to have a system that ensures best management practices to strengthen the relationship between federal and state agencies to better prevent and control food safety threats at all levels of food production. I believe these are realistic and achievable steps, and will make the American consumer's food supply safer, which is the goal of this legislation." To ensure that food products coming into the United States from international sources are safe, imported goods would have to adhere to the same safety and quality standards as set by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The Foreign Suppliers Quality Assurance Program would verify that all imported goods meet FDA safety requirements and requires food importers to complete a foreign supplier food safety plan, documenting the food safety measures and controls for FDA review. The bill includes a Mandatory Food Risk Assessment and Preventative Controls Plan that requires all domestic and foreign food companies selling food in U.S. to conduct a food safety risk analysis that identifies potential sources of contamination, outlines appropriate food safety controls, and requires verification that the food safety controls implemented are adequate to address the risks of food-borne contamination. It establishes new standards for fruits and vegetables, including updating Good Agricultural Practices Guidance for safe production and issuance of regulation on safety standards, when risk and science demonstrate standards are needed. Increases coordination between, federal, state and foreign governments to ensure that standards and allows for variances to meet local growing conditions. Finally, the Safe FEAST Act would grant FDA authority to access food safety production records during emergencies and deny importation of goods if strict food safety standards are not met and directs the agency to adopt a risk-based approach to inspections, giving greater scrutiny to facilities posing greater risk.
04.15.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressmen Jim Costa (D-Fresno) and Devin Nunes (R-Tulare) along with U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Senator Saxby Chambliss (R-GA) introduced legislation to ensure that "sole survivors" who leave military service receive full separation benefits. The lawmakers announced their legislation at a Senate news conference attended by Jason Hubbard, of Clovis, California, an Army veteran and sole survivor who lost his two brothers in Iraq. Hubbard, a Fresno County sheriff's deputy, was required to leave the combat zone, and was denied separation benefits when he left the military early. Under the legislation introduced today, "sole survivors" would not be required to repay their enlistment bonuses if they leave military service early. In addition, they would have access to full separation benefits, including the GI Bill, transitional veterans health care, and the Veterans Home Loan Guarantee Program. "Asking sole survivors to repay all or some of their enlistment bonus, as well as denying them access to military separation benefits, simply because they are a sole survivor is unthinkable," said Representative Costa. "We need to treat all of the men and women serving this country with respect. This legislation corrects this injustice, and allows sole survivors to qualify for many provisions that were previously denied to them." "Army Specialist Jason Hubbard served honorably in defense of our nation, and lost both of his brothers to war. His discharge from the military as a sole survivor should not disqualify him from receiving the transitional benefits others receive upon leaving the military," said Representative Nunes. "The Hubbard Act honors the sacrifice of families that have dedicated themselves to our nation through military service. Through passage of this legislation, we will ensure that sole survivors who return from war are treated with dignity." "Today there are no standard benefits available to members of the Armed Forces who leave early under the ‘sole survivor' policy. This is simply wrong," Senator Feinstein said. "These brave men and women have served their country honorably, and they've suffered great personal tragedies. To deny them separation benefits only adds insult to injury. Their country owes them more. This bill will ensure that they get the benefits that they are due." "The Hubbard brothers' story is extremely moving and it is a strong reminder of the tremendous personal sacrifices our military families make," said Senator Chambliss, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. "When these families experience tragedy and loss, their situation should not be made more difficult as a result of poorly constructed policies and procedures. Our legislation is greatly needed in order to ensure that sole survivors are not penalized when they separate from the military and that the benefits and pay to which they are entitled are consistent with personnel who are involuntarily separated under honorable conditions." Background Under the Department of Defense's "sole survivor" policy, service members who lose all their siblings in war are not allowed to return to a combat environment. The policy - portrayed in the film, "Saving Private Ryan" - is intended to protect American families from losing all their children to war. But recent experience with the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan show that the policy is deeply flawed. Sole survivors who leave military service early under the policy have been asked to repay all or part of their enlistment bonuses. They have also been denied access to the separation benefits veterans need when transitioning out of the Armed Forces, including the GI Bill, transitional veterans health care, and the Veterans Home Loan Guarantee Program. The Hubbard brothers of California illustrate the flaws with this program. In November 2004, Jared Hubbard, a Marine, was killed by a roadside bomb in Iraq. Six months later, his brothers Nathan and Jason Hubbard enlisted together in the Army - to honor Jared and to serve their country. Nathan and Jason Hubbard served in the same unit in Iraq. Last August, the brothers were returning from a scouting mission in two Blackhawk helicopters south of Kirkuk. The helicopter carrying Nathan crashed, and he was killed. Jason Hubbard's helicopter landed nearby, and he was ordered to help secure the crash site. Jason Hubbard was required to leave the combat theater because he had become a "sole survivor." When he voluntarily separated from the Army under this policy, he was asked to pay back his enlistment bonus. He was also denied transitional health care and the GI Bill. The Secretary of the Army personally intervened to resolve Jason Hubbard's health care and bonus issues. But he is still not allowed access to the GI Bill unless he goes through the lengthy process of changing his discharge code. Jason Hubbard is one of 51 sole survivors identified since the September 11, 2001, terrorists attacks. Following is a summary of the Hubbard Act of 2008: The bill would allow a service member who voluntarily separates under sole survivorship to qualify for the following provisions, many of them retroactive to September 11, 2001. It specifically: Waives the requirement to pay back any portion of their enlistment bonus upon separating from the military; Authorizes participation in the Montgomery GI Bill educational program, as long as they initially participated in the program; Authorizes full separation pay; Authorizes transitional health care coverage for 120 days. (Not retroactive); Authorizes use of commissaries, base exchanges, and morale, welfare and recreation for two years; Authorizes entitlement to the Veterans Home Loan Guarantee program; Authorizes conversion of Service Members Group Life Insurance (SGLI) policy to a term policy called Veterans' Group Life Insurance (VGLI); Authorizes veterans' preference in government employment, if applicable when applying for a government provision. (Not retroactive); Authorizes unemployment compensation. (Not retroactive); and Authorizes veterans employment and training through Department of Labor. (Not retroactive).
04.08.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Bakersfield) announced an award of 17 classic books on the theme of "Created Equal" to numerous school libraries in Bakersfield and Sanger. This award was made possible through the National Endowment for the Humanities' (NEH) We The People Bookshelf program. The Bookshelf includes Spanish translations to accompany four of the selected titles. "Reading is the most fundamental skill students need for success," said Costa. "These classic books that are on their way to these schools will enrich the lives of these students, as well as teach them our nation's history in a way they can appreciate and understand." The We The People Bookshelf program will distribute 3,000 sets of books to city, town, and neighborhood libraries, as well as libraries in public, private, charter and home schools in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Each library will receive a set of 17 books along with posters, bookmarks, and other promotional materials from NEH through the American Library Association. As part of the award, libraries are organizing programs or events to raise awareness of these classic books and engage young readers. Bakersfield schools libraries receiving this award are: Bessie E. Owens Intermediate School, Bessie E. Owens Primary School, Casa Loma Elementary School, College Heights Elementary School, Emerson Middle School, Fremont Elementary School, Jefferson Elementary School Library, Leo G. Pauly Elementary School, McKinley Elementary School, Mount Vernon Elementary School, Rafer Johnson Community Middle School, Ramon Garza Elementary School, Sequoia Middle School, Sierra Middle School, Wayside Elementary School, and Williams Elementary School. Sanger schools libraries receiving this award are: Del Rey Elementary School Library, Jackson Elementary School Library, Lincoln Elementary School Library, Lone Star Elementary School Library, Madison Elementary School Library, Reagan Elementary School Library, Sanger Academy Charter School Library, Sanger High School Library, and Washington Academic Middle School Library. Some of the books that are part of this award include The Ugly Duckling, The Gettysburg Address, Elija of Buxton, Many Thousand Gone: African Americans from Slavery to Freedom, Breaking Through, and Freedom Walkers: The Story of the Montgomery Bus Boycott.
04.02.2008	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that a grant of $500,000 has been awarded to the City of Parlier for business assistance and micro-enterprise loans. This grant is being awarded through the Economic Development Enterprise Fund Allocation of the State Community Development Block Grant Program. Funds will be used to provide micro-enterprises low-interest loans and technical assistance to businesses located within the city limits. "This is great news for Parlier," said Costa. "Small business makes up 51% of the employment in our nation and helps add jobs to our economy. This grant will help Parlier's small businesses prosper and give the local economy a sorely-needed boost." The California Department of Housing and Community Development works with California's small cities and rural counties to promote economic development. Enterprise Fund dollars can be used by towns and cities for infrastructure projects, and to develop technical assistance and lending programs to support local small businesses and micro-enterprises.
04.02.2008	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that a grant of $994,863 has been awarded to the Kern County Superintendent of Schools-Kern County Museum in Bakersfield, CA for their History of a Nation project. These funds are being awarded through the United States Department of Education under their Teaching American History grant program, and funds will be used to raise student achievement in American history throughout Kern County. "This is great news for Kern County," said Costa. "This program is expected to recruit and train up to 40 teachers who will use new resources and teaching ideas to enrich Kern County students in American history. I am expecting American history scholars to come out of Kern County schools in the near future." Kern County Superintendent of Schools will lead the partnership of professional development content providers which include California State University Bakersfield's History Department, the Kern County Museum, and the American Institute for History Education. The project has also partnered with the Bill of Rights Institute, the California Technology Assistance Projects, and the Civil War Society, among other organizations. The grant awarded to Kern County will be for a total of five years. Information about the partners involved in this project can be found at the following websites: https://www.csub.edu/history/ https://www.kcmuseum.org/ https://www.americaninstituteforhistory.org/ https://www.billofrightsinstitute.org/ https://ctap.k12.ca.us/ https://www.acws.net/
03.07.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that two new employees have joined his staff. Bob Farmer, a legislative fellow, will serve as Costa's foreign affairs, defense, and intelligence staffer, while Kristin Brainerd will take on Costa's resources, water, energy, and environment portfolio. Costa serves on the House Foreign Affairs, Natural Resources, and Agriculture committees. "Both Bob and Kristin have unique backgrounds, and I am excited to have them on my staff," said Costa. "Their knowledge and expertise will be a great benefit to me and the 20th Congressional District." Farmer is working as a Brookings Institute Congressional Legislative Fellow, and will be on Costa's staff until August 2008. Upon finishing the fellowship, Farmer will return to work for the Boeing Company. Most recently, Farmer served as a Director of Business Development working in the Integrated Defense Systems Company of Boeing. He graduated from the University of Missouri, Rolla with a degree in electrical engineering, and has a Master's degree in electrical engineering from Washington University in St. Louis, MO. He is married to Garalyn Jo Farmer, and they have three children: Molly Anne, Benjamin, and Brendan. Brainerd is from Orange County, CA, and graduated from the University of California, Los Angeles in 1997 with a Bachelor of Arts in Political Science. While at UCLA, she wrote for the Daily Bruin, and headed to Washington, DC following graduation to write for CQ as a politics reporter. Brainerd attended Columbia Law School, and graduated in 2003. At Columbia, she worked for the Environmental Law Clinic and was an editor for the Environmental Law Journal. Since graduating, she has worked for Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, where she was part of the Environment & Natural Resources practice group.
02.15.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, the House Subcommittee on Energy and Air Quality passed H.R. 3754, legislation to allow the retrofitting of diesel engines with new, lower emissions technology. HR 3754 is authored by Congressman Jim Costa and co-sponsored by fellow California colleagues: Dennis Cardoza, Jerry McNerney, Doris Matsui and Devin Nunes. Costa introduced this legislation in partnership with Senator Tom Carper, who introduced companion legislation in the United States Senate. Carper's bill was recently approved by the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works. "Today's approval of HR 3754 is the first step to restoring this important clean diesel program," said Costa. "Areas across the nation who suffer from poor air quality, such as the San Joaquin Valley, can benefit from these types of retrofits to older diesel engines. I will continue to work with my colleagues on the Energy and Commerce Committee to see that this bill is passed by the full committee, and moved to the House Floor for a vote." For many years, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has funded diesel retrofit projects through their supplemental environmental settlements with corporations. Costa's bill allows the EPA to continue this practice, and will help maintain a separate source of funding through supplemental environmental projects. Costa told the committee today that retrofitting clean diesel technologies for diesel vehicles and equipment is one of the most cost-effective strategies for achieving tangible and immediate air quality benefits. "With a cleaner burning diesel, lower-emitting diesel engines, and new emissions control technology, diesel can be an energy source for America as alternative energy sources continue to be improved and developed," Costa said.
02.11.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that approximately $6.997 million has been approved for the Fresno VA hospital by the Department of Veterans Affairs. These funds will be dedicated to a minor construction project for the Mental Health Outreach and Rehabilitation building. "This is good news for the Fresno VA and all our local veterans," said Costa. "Minor construction projects done today save from doing major construction projects ten or fifteen years from now." During the first session of the 110th Congress, Democrats provided the largest veterans' funding increase in the 77-year history of the Veteran's Administration, with a $6.6 billion increase for their FY08 budget. This increase provided strengthening in health care for 5.8 million patients, and also provided more funding for minor construction projects for VA hospitals around the nation. For more information about this funding, please contact Costa's office at (202) 225-3341.
12.20.2007	FRESNO, CA - Tomorrow, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) will be available to the media to discuss the recently passed Energy Independence and Security Act and, an overview of the end of the first session of the 110th Congress, and other issues relating to the Valley and Congress. The Energy Independence and Security Act, which was signed into law on December 19, 2007, is an important first step toward reducing our dependence on foreign sources of energy. Specifically, the bill increases vehicle fuel efficiency standard to 35 miles per gallon by 2020. This increase in fuel efficiency is projected to save American families between $700 and $1,000 a year at the gas station. The bill also provides for increased production of biofuels, improving standards for appliances and lighting, and funding for alternative energy research and development. WHO: Rep. Jim Costa, D-Fresno WHAT: Media Availability WHEN: Friday, December 21, 2007 at 11:15am WHERE: Office of Congressman Jim Costa 855 "M" Street, Suite 940, Fresno, CA 93721
12.06.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that Ms. Elizabeth Monsma of Shafter, California will serve as his Congressional Page for part of the second session of the 110th Congress. Monsma is the daughter of Kevin and Deborah Monsma, and is a junior at Shafter High School. She will be working for the House of Representatives from January 27th, 2008 and will end her semester on June 6th, 2008. "The House Page Program is the best way young men and women can truly learn the inner workings of Congress," said Costa. "Pages do everything from monitoring votes for Members, preparing the House for daily business, to running messages between the House and Senate Chamber. I am positive Elizabeth will learn and grow while she is working here in Washington." Pages are students in their junior year of high school who are hired to serve as support staff for the United States House of Representatives. All Pages must be sponsored by a Member of Congress, and meet a variety of academic requirements before serving as a Page. During the academic year, Pages are required to attend Page school in addition to their responsibilities on the House floor. They live in a secured Page Residence Hall and receive a monthly salary. For more information about the House Page Program, please visit https://pageprogram.house.gov/factsheet.pdf.
12.06.2007	FRESNO, CA - Tomorrow, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) will be attending a joint meeting of the Fresno County Board of Supervisors and the Fresno City Council regarding homelessness in Fresno County. At 1:30pm, Costa will introduce the keynote speaker, Mr. Philip Mangano, who was appointed by President George W. Bush in 2002 to serve as Executive Director of the United States Interagency Council on Homelessness. Mangano is addressing the Board and the Council to discuss ways to combat homelessness in Fresno and Fresno County. The agenda for the meeting can be found on the City Council's website: https://www.fresno.gov/Government/CityCouncil/Default.htm. For more information about the United States Interagency Council on Homelessness, please visit https://www.ich.gov/. Following the meeting, Costa will be available to the press to discuss homelessness in Fresno County. WHO: Rep. Jim Costa, D-Fresno WHAT: Fresno County Board of Supervisors and Fresno City Council Joint Meeting on Homelessness WHEN: Friday, December 7th, 2007 1:30pm to 3:30pm WHERE: Cornerstone Conference Center 1525 Fulton Street Fresno, CA 93721
11.15.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Jim Costa announced that the San Joaquin River Restoration Act, HR 4074, passed out of the House Committee on Natural Resources by a vote of 25 to 15. The committee action marks an important milestone in resolving an 18-year-old lawsuit that will provide long term water certainty for the Valley. "This is a step in the right direction for the San Joaquin River, and the settlement," said Costa. "It will also help to improve water supply reliability and water quality for Valley residents and farmers." Costa said his priority now is to get an agreement by the Settling Parties on implementation of the Settlement's Water Management Goal and to find a way to meet Congressional PAYGO requirements. The Committee approved Costa's legislation with temporary provisions to meet Congressional budget rules. Friant water users and other affected parties are still evaluating different options to resolve the PAYGO issue. "The Water Management and PAYGO issues need to be settled before I take this bill to the House floor," Costa said. "I look forward to working with all the interested parties on both of these matters." Also included in the bill was Costa's San Joaquin Regional Water Plan, which would provide for a study regarding development of a comprehensive integrated regional water management plan which would address four general areas of water planning, which are improving our water supply, addressing water quality, planning for future flood control, and environmental restoration. This legislation would authorize the California Water Institute located at California State University, Fresno to perform this study through a grant.
11.02.2007	BAKERSFIELD, CA - On Saturday, November 3rd, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) will be attending a Homebuyer and Foreclosure Prevention Fair which he is sponsoring. Some of the agencies providing information about home purchasing and preventing foreclosure include Housing and Urban Development, ACORN Housing, Consumer Credit Counseling Services, as well as local banks and licensed Realtors. Costa will give a brief speech regarding home ownership and the recent foreclosure crisis. He will also be available to the media following his speech to discuss the purpose of the workshop, condition of the housing market, the record number of foreclosures, and recent passage of legislation in the House of Representatives to address these housing problems. WHO: Rep. Jim Costa, D-Fresno WHAT: Homebuyer and Foreclosure Prevention Fair WHEN: Costa will address the audience at 10:30am WHERE: Richard Prado East Bakersfield Senior Center 2101 Ridge Road, Bakersfield, CA 93307
10.29.2007	BAKERSFIELD, CA - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced today he will host a Homebuyer and Foreclosure Prevention Fair on Saturday, November 3rd. Agencies providing information at the fair include Housing and Urban Development, ACORN Housing, Consumer Credit Counseling Services, and local banks and Realtors. The workshop will be held on Saturday, November 3rd, at the Richard Prado East Bakersfield Senior Center, 2101 Ridge Road, Bakersfield, CA 93307, from 9:00am to noon. "Home ownership has been part of the American Dream for years, and homebuyers today have many questions regarding down payments, credit checks, or programs for those with low to moderate incomes," Costa said. "In addition, foreclosures are becoming too familiar for homeowners. I am hopeful this event will ease fears that many first time homebuyers may experience." The informational fair is free and open to the public. For more information, please call Congressman Costa's Bakersfield District Office at (661) 869-1620.
10.29.2007	BAKERSFIELD, CA - El Congresista Jim Costa (Democrata de Fresno) anunció hoy que estará patrocinando una Feria Informativa para ayudar a compradores de vivienda por primera vez y aquellos que están a punto de sufrir un embargo de hogar este 3 de Noviembre en Bakersfield. Las agencias que proporcionaran información incluyen al Departamento de Vivienda y Desarrollo Urbano de Estados Unidos, ACORN Housing, el Centro de Recursos de Vivienda, Agencias y Agentes de Crédito, Bancos Locales, Agentes de Bienes y Raíces entre otras organizaciones de vivienda que sirven al Valle Central. La Feria Informativa se llevará acabo el sábado, 3 de Noviembre, en el Richard Prado Senior Center de Bakersfield, ubicado en el 2101 Ridge Road, Bakersfield, CA 93307, de 9:00 de la mañana hasta las 12 del mediodía. "Ser dueño de tu propia vivienda ha sido parte del Sueño Americano por muchos años y hoy en día compradores de vivienda tienen muchas preguntas con respecto a enganches, sus historiales de crédito, y programas para personas de bajos ingresos," dijo Costa. "Además, embargos de hogar han llegado a ser muy comunes para personas que ya habían alcanzado esta parte del Sueño Americano en los últimos años. Espero que esta feria informativa disminuya los temores que muchas familias pueden estar experimentando en estos momentos" Costa agregó. La Feria Informativa es gratis y se invita a todas las comunidades cercanas para que asistan. Para más información, lláme a la oficina del Congresista Jim Costa en Bakersfield al número (661) 869-1620.
10.24.2007	"Thank you Chairman Lantos for bringing such an important resolution before the Foreign Affairs Committee for mark-up, and for the profiles in courage that you, as our Chairman, and our Speaker are demonstrating today that this measure should be heard in the House of Representatives. "The importance of Turkey as an ally to the United States, both as a supporter of the War on Terrorism and our efforts in Afghanistan and Iraq obviously have been well stated and should not be taken for granted and I certainly don't, but I do support this resolution. Much has been said about the potential impact on our national security in the current conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. But I would ask my colleagues who have this concern to note that in fact when Russia recognized the Armenian genocide in 1995 their trade with Turkey has since increased by 351 percent. When Greece recognized the genocide - who have had tensions over centuries with Turkey - in 1997, their trade has since increased by 266 percent. And yes, the European Parliament passed last year a set of economic conditions and social conditions prior to the entry of Turkey into the European Union; one of those conditions was the recognition of the Armenian Genocide and Turkey still, to this day, seeks entry into the European Union. Nation-states at the end of the day, ultimately, notwithstanding their own internal politics, do what is in their best interest. Because of the assistance we provide in foreign aid and the important relationship that we have with Turkey, I believe that in fact if we pass this resolution, Turkey will not like it, but they certainly will do what is in their best interest and that will be to continue to have a relationship between our great nations. "But for me, as I suspect as it is for others on the Committee, this resolution involves one issue - the simple matter of man's injustice to mankind... as it has occurred in Rwanda, Cambodia, Bosnia, the Holocaust, and in this instance, this resolution is about the Armenian Genocide. "In May 2006, I went on a Codel to Iraq, Turkey and Greece with my colleague Mr. Pence. As we traveled through Turkey, we had a meeting with Abdulla Gül, at that time he was the Foreign Minister and today he is the President of Turkey. I'd like to relay a part of our conversation to the members of this Committee. I talked about the positive relationship with Turkey and America and our long standing friendship. That modern day Turkey stands for a successful, secular democracy, a responsible nation-state on the world stage. "But I also told him that all nations in the world have periods of their history that they'd soon forget. I explained that slavery in early America is one of our chapters that many would overlook... And even some of our beloved Founding Fathers held slaves. Slavery created turmoil in our nation for decades, and was one of the causes the Civil War. The issues of civil rights in America continued for 100 years following the Civil War, resulting in the Civil Rights Act passed by Congress in 1964. And despite this monumental legislation, we still have problems today in our country, but we acknowledge and we confront them just as modern day Turkey should. "The purpose of the resolution today is not to belittle the accomplishments of Turkey; but rather to acknowledge an event that occurred in the early 20th century... involving a plan to remove people from their homes and lands, and sadly, evolved into one of the first genocides in the modern world. Modern day Turkey was not responsible for that genocide but they should acknowledge it and they should move on. It is important we acknowledge this fact, in an effort to heal the wounds and build new relations among Turkey, Armenia, and the world communities. "One can debate specific incidents, but growing up in Fresno, California, the land of William Saroyan, I can tell you I heard stories as a boy from grandparents of my friends -- the Kezerian, Koligian and Abramhian families about being forced to leave their homes, the stories of the long marches that evolved into the massacres and murders of women and children. Clearly, they believed there was a systematic approach to eliminate the Armenian communities in places that had been their homes and farms for centuries. My Armenian friends believe that what happened between1915-1923 was a systematic approach, and was among the first genocides of the 20th century, and so do I. "This resolution is not meant to reopen the wounds or degenerate the importance of our relationship with the Turkish people or their government... and an important ally. But my vote in favor of this resolution is to accurately reflect history. It is important that we support this measure, and move on. I urge an ‘Aye' vote." --Given in the House of Representatives' Committee on Foreign Affairs, 10/10/07.
10.11.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - On Thursday October 11th, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) will be available to the press to discuss recent Congressional action House Resolution 106, the Armenian Genocide resolution, which passed through the House Foreign Affairs Committee today by a vote of 27 to 21. Below is the statement given by Costa in today's hearing. WHO: Rep. Jim Costa, D-Fresno WHAT: Media Availability WHEN: Thursday, October 11th, 2007 at 1:30pm WHERE: Fresno-Yosemite International Airport Outside the terminal "Thank you Mr. Chairman Lantos for bringing such an important resolution before the Foreign Affairs Committee for mark-up, and the profiles in courage you as our Chairman and our Speaker are demonstrating today that this measure should be heard in the House of Representatives. "The importance of Turkey as an ally to the United States, both as a supporter of the War on Terrorism and our efforts in Afghanistan and Iraq and obviously have been well stated should not be taken for granted and I certainly don't. I do support this resolution. Much has been said about the potential impact on our national security in the current conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. But I would heed my colleagues who have that concern to note that in fact when Russia recognized the Armenian genocide in 1995 their trade with Turkey increased by 351 %. When Greece recognized the genocide - who have had tensions over the past few decades with Turkey - in 1997, trade increased by 266 %. And yes, the European Parliament passed last year a set of economic conditions and social conditions prior to the entry of Turkey into the European Union; one of those conditions was the recognition of the Armenian Genocide. Nation states at the end of the day, ultimately, notwithstanding their own internal politics, do what is in their best interest. Because of the assistance and all the important relationships that we have with Turkey, I believe that in fact if we pass this resolution, Turkey will not like it, but they certainly will do what is in their best interest and that will be to continue to have a relationship with between our great nations. "But for me, as I suspect it is for others on the Committee, this resolution involves the issue - the simple issue of man's injustice to mankind... as it has occurred in Rwanda, Cambodia, Bosnia, the Holocaust, and in this instance, this resolution is about the Armenian Genocide. "In May 2006, I went on a Codel to Iraq, Turkey and Greece with my colleague Mr. Pence. As we traveled through Turkey, we had a meeting with President Abdulla Gül - who was then Foreign Minister - who is President today. And I'd like to relay a story to the members of this Committee. I talked about the positive relationship with Turkey and America and our long standing relations. That modern day Turkey stands for a successful, secular democracy, a responsible nation-state on the world stage. "But I also told him that all nations in the world have periods of their history that they'd soon forget. I explained that slavery in early America is one of our chapters that many would soon overlook... And even our beloved Founding Fathers held slaves. Slavery created turmoil in our nation for decades, and was one of the many causes the Civil War. The issues of civil rights in America continued for 100 years following the Civil War, resulting in a Civil Rights Act passed by Congress in the 1960s. And despite this monumental legislation, we still have problems today in our country, but we acknowledge and we confront them just as modern day Turkey should. "The purpose of the resolution today is not to belittle the accomplishments of Turkey; but rather to acknowledge an event that occurred in the early 20th century... involving a plan to remove people from their homes and lands, and sadly, evolved into one of the first genocides in the modern world. Modern day Turkey was not responsible for that genocide but they should acknowledge it and they should move on. It is important we acknowledge this fact, in an effort to heal the wounds and build new relations among Turkey, Armenia, and the world communities. "One can debate specific incidents, but growing up in Fresno, California, the land of William Saroyan, I can tell you I heard stories as a kid from grandparents of my friends -- the Kezerian, Koligian and Abramhian families about being forced to leave their homes, the stories of the long marches, the massacres and murders that occurred to women and children. Clearly, they believed there was a systematic approach to eliminate the Armenian communities in places that had been their homes and farms for centuries. My Armenian friends believe that what happened between1915-1923 was a systematic approach, and was among the first genocides of the 20th century, and so do I. "This resolution is not meant to reopen the wounds or degenerate the importance of our relationship with the Turkish people or their government... and an important ally. But my vote in favor of this resolution is to accurately reflect history. It is important that we support this measure, and move on. I urge an ‘Aye' vote." # # #
10.11.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - On Thursday October 11th, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) will be available to the press to discuss recent Congressional action House Resolution 106, the Armenian Genocide resolution, which passed through the House Foreign Affairs Committee today by a vote of 27 to 21. Costa will also discuss the Farm Bill. Below is the statement given by Costa in today's hearing. WHO: Rep. Jim Costa, D-Fresno WHAT: Media Availability WHEN: Thursday, October 11th, 2007, anytime after 6pm WHERE: Petroleum Club 5060 California Ave # 12th Floor Bakersfield, CA 93309 "Thank you Mr. Chairman Lantos for bringing such an important resolution before the Foreign Affairs Committee for mark-up, and the profiles in courage you as our Chairman and our Speaker are demonstrating today that this measure should be heard in the House of Representatives. "The importance of Turkey as an ally to the United States, both as a supporter of the War on Terrorism and our efforts in Afghanistan and Iraq and obviously have been well stated should not be taken for granted and I certainly don't. I do support this resolution. Much has been said about the potential impact on our national security in the current conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. But I would heed my colleagues who have that concern to note that in fact when Russia recognized the Armenian genocide in 1995 their trade with Turkey increased by 351 %. When Greece recognized the genocide - who have had tensions over the past few decades with Turkey - in 1997, trade increased by 266 %. And yes, the European Parliament passed last year a set of economic conditions and social conditions prior to the entry of Turkey into the European Union; one of those conditions was the recognition of the Armenian Genocide. Nation states at the end of the day, ultimately, notwithstanding their own internal politics, do what is in their best interest. Because of the assistance and all the important relationships that we have with Turkey, I believe that in fact if we pass this resolution, Turkey will not like it, but they certainly will do what is in their best interest and that will be to continue to have a relationship with between our great nations. "But for me, as I suspect it is for others on the Committee, this resolution involves the issue - the simple issue of man's injustice to mankind... as it has occurred in Rwanda, Cambodia, Bosnia, the Holocaust, and in this instance, this resolution is about the Armenian Genocide. "In May 2006, I went on a Codel to Iraq, Turkey and Greece with my colleague Mr. Pence. As we traveled through Turkey, we had a meeting with President Abdulla Gül - who was then Foreign Minister - who is President today. And I'd like to relay a story to the members of this Committee. I talked about the positive relationship with Turkey and America and our long standing relations. That modern day Turkey stands for a successful, secular democracy, a responsible nation-state on the world stage. "But I also told him that all nations in the world have periods of their history that they'd soon forget. I explained that slavery in early America is one of our chapters that many would soon overlook... And even our beloved Founding Fathers held slaves. Slavery created turmoil in our nation for decades, and was one of the many causes the Civil War. The issues of civil rights in America continued for 100 years following the Civil War, resulting in a Civil Rights Act passed by Congress in the 1960s. And despite this monumental legislation, we still have problems today in our country, but we acknowledge and we confront them just as modern day Turkey should. "The purpose of the resolution today is not to belittle the accomplishments of Turkey; but rather to acknowledge an event that occurred in the early 20th century... involving a plan to remove people from their homes and lands, and sadly, evolved into one of the first genocides in the modern world. Modern day Turkey was not responsible for that genocide but they should acknowledge it and they should move on. It is important we acknowledge this fact, in an effort to heal the wounds and build new relations among Turkey, Armenia, and the world communities. "One can debate specific incidents, but growing up in Fresno, California, the land of William Saroyan, I can tell you I heard stories as a kid from grandparents of my friends -- the Kezerian, Koligian and Abramhian families about being forced to leave their homes, the stories of the long marches, the massacres and murders that occurred to women and children. Clearly, they believed there was a systematic approach to eliminate the Armenian communities in places that had been their homes and farms for centuries. My Armenian friends believe that what happened between1915-1923 was a systematic approach, and was among the first genocides of the 20th century, and so do I. "This resolution is not meant to reopen the wounds or degenerate the importance of our relationship with the Turkish people or their government... and an important ally. But my vote in favor of this resolution is to accurately reflect history. It is important that we support this measure, and move on. I urge an ‘Aye' vote." # # #
10.11.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - In response to a letter that Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) sent to Mexican Congressman Isidro Pedraza Chavez, the President of the Special Commission of Exbraceros, Pedraza stated in a press conference on Tuesday, October 9th that he will help to coordinate efforts to have the Mexican Consulates within the United States assist the former braceros that are still awaiting their compensation for participating in the Bracero Program from 1942-1964 and advocate to allocate funds so they can receive their due payments. The letter was spearheaded by Costa and Congressman Raul Grijalva (D-Arizona), after a request received by Costa's office from former braceros residing in Costa's district, and the former braceros' representative in the United States, Mr. Leonel Flores. The Mexican Congressman Isidro Pedraza pledged work on the concerns raised by Costa, including the need for more clarification for former braceros living in the United States as to how they can be included in the National Bracero Registry to claim their due compensation. "This is a big step for former bracero workers," said Costa. "We will have to continue to work to ensure this compensation is received, but I am happy that my Mexican colleagues are willing to work on this issue with me." "The intervention of the Representative Jim Costa and the 17 other Congressional Hispanic Caucus members that signed the letter has been very important; now it is the responsibility of the president of the Executive office in Mexico to pursue this further through the Mexican Foreign Relations Department" said Leonel Flores. ###
10.05.2007	FRESNO, CA - Monday, October 8th, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) will hold a press conference to discuss President Bush's veto of the children's health care program. WHO: Rep. Jim Costa, D-Fresno WHAT: Press Conference WHEN: Monday, October 8th, 2:00pm WHERE: Community Hospital-Eastern Plaza, adjacent to the Trauma Building 2823 Fresno Street Fresno, CA 93721 # # #
10.05.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Yesterday, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) introduced legislation that would allow the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to continue the practice of funding clean diesel projects as part of environmental enforcement settlements. Costa introduced this legislation in partnership with Senator Tom Carper (D-DE), who introduced the same version in the United States Senate. "Programs like DERA are great for areas across the nation, who suffer the same poor air quality like our Valley," said Costa. "By continuing this project, additional funds will come to the Valley so we can ensure diesel vehicles emit fewer pollutants into our air, and see clearer skies in our future." This successful program has funded more than $60 million in diesel retrofit vehicles over the past few years. Under EPA's estimates, diesel retrofit projects have a 13-to-1 benefit-to-cost ratio, meaning the $60 million has resulted in $780 million in health benefits ranging from reduced asthma cases to fewer cardiopulmonary deaths. In 2006, the EPA determined that if the agency receives a specific appropriation for the Diesel Emissions Reduction Act's (DERA) grant program, the EPA may not allow diesel projects as part of an enforcement settlement. Costa's bill will give the EPA authority to continue to fund diesel retrofits through this program. Representatives Jerry McNerney (D-Stockton), Devin Nunes (R-Visalia), and Dennis Cardoza (D-Merced) joined Costa in introducing the bill. # # #
10.04.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.-Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) released the following statement regarding the upcoming mark-up of House Resolution 106, the Armenian Genocide resolution. "Silence is genocide's greatest ally, and I am very happy that the silence regarding the Armenian Genocide will be ending next week in the House Foreign Affairs Committee. The United States should not be playing the game of recognizing certain genocides and not others, and it is well past due that the Armenian Genocide finally be recognized as such in our nation. "For years, the Turkish Government has gone to great lengths to lobby Members of Congress on the genocide. It's time the United States formally recognize this sad chapter during the Ottoman Empire. I will be working with my colleagues to see the resolution is passed in the Foreign Affairs Committee, and come to the floor for a vote before the full House." # # #
10.01.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) and Congressman Raúl M. Grijalva (D-Arizona) introduced a resolution honoring the 65th anniversary of the first Bracero workers in the United States. The Bracero program was implemented in 1942 to fill the labor shortage in the United States caused by World War II. Twenty-eight states participated in the program, which lasted from 1942 to 1964. "Braceros were a major cog in the American war machine during World War II," said Costa. "Their efforts in our farms helped to keep our country, and our military men fed, and their work on the railroads helped get desperately needed supplies across the nation in an efficient manner. It's time we give them the honor they deserve." "As a son of a Bracero, my father always felt he worked hard for his family and this new country of ours," said Grijalva. "I am proud to honor all the workers like my father." In 1942, a bilateral agreement between the United States and Mexico was reached to bring workers from Mexico into the United States to ease the manpower shortage caused by World War II. While the program was scheduled to end at the end of World War II, it lasted 22 years. On September 29th, 1942, the first 1,500 Braceros arrived in California from Mexico City, Mexico to work in the sugar beet fields around Stockton, California. While the work of the Braceros has been recognized by many state and local governments, they have not been recognized by the federal government. # # #
10.01.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - El Congresista Jim Costa (Demócrata de Fresno) y el Congresista Raúl M. Grijalva (Demócrata de Arizona) presentaron juntos una Propuesta de Ley honrando el 65 aniversario de los primeros trabajadores Braceros en los Estados Unidos. El programa de Braceros fue implementado en 1942 a raíz de la escasez de trabajadores en los Estados Unidos causada por la Segunda Guerra Mundial. Veintiocho estados tomaron parte en el programa, el cual duró de 1942 a 1964. "Los Braceros fueron una gran ayuda a los esfuerzos Americanos durante la Segunda Guerra Mundial," dijo Costa. "Su trabajo en nuestros campos ayudo a alimentar a nuestro país y a nuestros hombres militares y su labor construyendo los ferrocarriles ayudo a transportar provisiones que se necesitaban desesperadamente a través de la nación. Es tiempo que nosotros los honremos como ellos se merecen." "Siendo un hijo de un Bracero, mi padre siempre sintió que había trabajado duro para su familia y para este país que era nuevo para todos nosotros," dijo Grijalva. "Me enorgullece poder honrar a todos los trabajadores como mi padre". En 1942, un acuerdo entre los Estados Unidos y México fue firmado para traer trabajadores de México a los Estados Unidos y aliviar la escasez de la mano de obra causada por la Segunda Guerra Mundial. El programa se pensaba terminar al final de la Segunda Guerra Mundial pero en realidad duró un lapso de 22 años continuos. El dia 29 de Septiembre de 1942 marcó la llegada de los primeros 1,500 Braceros a California desde la capital Mexicana, México D.F. para trabajar en los campos de betabeles alrededor de Stockton, California. Esta propuesta de ley tiene un gran significado ya que el trabajo de los Braceros ha sido reconocido por muchos gobiernos estatales y municipalidades locales en varios estados pero nunca han obtenido el merecido reconocimiento por parte del gobierno federal de Estados Unidos. # # #
09.28.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Yesterday, the House Subcommittee on Water and Power discussed H.R. 2498, the San Joaquin Valley Regional Water bill, authored by Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno). This bill would authorize a study to develop a progressive integrated regional water plan for the San Joaquin River and Tulare Lake Hydrologic Regions. The study would render a solution-oriented regional plan that will focus on increasing our supply of water, provide solutions to address water quality issues, look at better ways to mitigate environmental issues, and solutions for long-term flood control. This study would be done at the California Water Institute, located at California State University, Fresno. "It is important that we develop a regional roadmap with water agencies, counties, cities, and the State to solve our long term water needs," said Costa. "As a result of recent court decisions, as well as projected population growth, we are facing more demand for finite supplies. We must solve water issues on a regional basis with our neighboring counties. I am thrilled the subcommittee discussed this bill today, and hope it will be marked up in the full committee in the near future." Costa spoke yesterday at the hearing to present H.R. 2498, and spoke of the severe drought Mother Nature has inflicted on the Valley, and the man made drought the Valley is suffering from due to water being taken away by other regions in the state. "In California, it's either feast or famine; we either have more water than we can deal with, or we have drought conditions. We had 28% of normal precipitation and snow pack last year, and if this trend continues this winter, it will pale in comparison to previous droughts. This, coupled with man-made droughts, caused by judicial and legislative decisions which have reallocated water from the San Joaquin Valley to benefit other parts of the State, puts California in a perfect storm," Costa told the subcommittee. The Integrated Regional Water Management Planning Act, authored by Costa while he was serving in the California State Senate, was first enacted at the state level in September 2002. The goal of the legislation was the formation of regional water management groups to enact regional plans to address long-term water needs. The San Joaquin Valley faces critical water shortages coupled with quality issues. Add to that groundwater overdraft, unreliable surface water availability, conveyance issues as well as environmental restoration and flood control issues, the time is now to act for the Valley's needs into the next 30 to 50 years. Local water officials believe that Federal involvement in the water planning process is needed and appropriate, primarily because many of the water related issues of late are related to the Federal actions; either agency policies or court decisions. Much of the supplies for the southern part of the San Joaquin Valley are operated or controlled by the Bureau of Reclamation, or the Army Corps of Engineers. H.R. 2498 would bring these Federal agencies into the local water planning process and authorize $1 million in Federal funds, to be provided through the Bureau of Reclamation. # # #
09.26.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Last night, the House of Representatives passed House Resolution 590, by a vote of 395 to 0. This resolution, co-authored by Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno), supports the goals and ideals of National Domestic Violence Awareness Month, which takes place each October. "Victims of domestic violence are our brothers, sisters, mothers, fathers, and friends," said Costa. "We need to bring the scourge of domestic violence to the forefront of our communities in hope that educating people about the evils of domestic violence will one day end this awful crime. I am proud to have co-authored this bill, and will continue to work for all victims of crime." "Love never comes with black eyes, bruises and battery," said Congressman Ted Poe (R-Texas). "America must be concerned about what takes place in our families and the effects of domestic violence on everyone involved. While one-in-four women are victims of domestic violence in their lifetime, they are not alone - men and children are victims as well. This is a problem that goes far beyond the relationships of two people. As a lifelong advocate for victims, it is important that we as a country recognize the devastating effects of domestic violence and do everything in our power to put an end to the nightmare." Costa is a co-chairman of the bipartisan Victims Rights Caucus in the House of Representatives with Congressman Ted Poe (R-Texas). The goals of the caucus are to represent crime victims in the United States through legislation, to provide an ongoing forum for pro-active discussion between Congress and national victim assistance organizations, and to seep opportunities for public education initiatives to help people in the United States to understand the impact of crime on victims. # # #
09.21.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - On September 29, 2007, the National Park Service will waive all entrance fees, including vehicle and commercial tour fees, to National Parks across the country. The fee waiver is to celebrate National Public Lands Day, and to encourage Americans to visit their local national parks. In addition to waiving entrance fees, national parks and other public lands will host special programs and volunteer work parties to commemorate the 14th annual event. Anyone who volunteers at a National Park Service area on National Public Lands Day will receive a free one day pass valid for future use at any site. For a list of National Parks and historic sites in the area, visit https://www.nps.gov/, or for more information, visit the National Public Lands Day official web site at https://www.publiclandsday.org/. "America's national parks are a treasure for all of us to enjoy," said Costa. "I encourage everyone to take advantage of the free entrance next weekend and visit Kings Canyon, Yosemite, or Death Valley" National Public Lands Day is the only time that entrance fees are waived systematically on public lands throughout the country. Normally, 147 of the country's 391 National Park Service sites charge an entrance fee ranging from $3 to $25. United States veterans are admitted to national parks for free each year on Veteran's Day. For a list of National Parks and historic sites in the area, visit https://www.nps.gov/, or for more information, visit the National Public Lands Day official web site at https://www.publiclandsday.org/. # # #
09.20.2007	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that an investment award of $2,680,000 has been awarded to the City of Parlier to support the construction of infrastructure improvements to the second phase of Parlier Bio-Agricultural Industrial Park. These funds are being awarded through the United States Department of Commerce Economic Develop Administration. It is anticipated that 125 jobs will be created through this investment. Costa wrote several letters to the Economic Development Administration in support of the investment award. "This is great news for Parlier and for the new industrial park," said Costa. "The park will provide Parlier with a chance to enter new horizons in the economic development world, as they establish new businesses and open up new job opportunities for its residents." The industrial park is set on a 297-acre site and is being built to be used for light and heavy industrial use with electronic assembly, food processing and warehouse distribution. It will be located on Manning Avenue. The Economic Development Administration serves as a venture capital resource to meet the economic development needs of communities throughout the United States, and to promote innovation and competitiveness in America. # # #
09.14.2007	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that a grant of $435,000 has been awarded to the City of Fresno to fight methamphetamine. These funds are being awarded through the Department of Justice Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) to help communities combat the manufacture, use, and distribution of meth. These grants were awarded to 117 law enforcement agencies under COPS Methamphetamine Initiative. Another 14 training organizations in 11 states won grants under COPS Methamphetamine Training and Technical Assistance program. "Methamphetamine is a scourge to our communities, our Valley, and our country," said Costa. "These grants are just some of the tools in our meth toolbox we can use to combat its manufacture and distribution. I am thrilled that Fresno was awarded these funds." COPS Methamphetamine Initiative grants can be used to help communities combat the manufacture, use, and distribution of meth, and to collaborate with other entities in the prevention and treatment of meth abuse. COPS Methamphetamine Training and Technical Assistance program funds are intended to increase the capacity of training and technical assistance providers to develop a more informed and engaged community with regards to meth use and abuse. These projects encourage and promote the use of community policing and problem-solving strategies to combat meth and its harmful criminal, social, and environmental impact. Priority was given to projects that reflected the best capacity for having a national impact. # # #
09.12.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) released the following statement regarding yesterday's House Foreign Affairs and Armed Services joint committee hearing regarding Iraq. "Yesterday's hearing with General David Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan Crocker was a good update for my colleagues and me on Iraq. But it left many things unanswered. I have submitted questions to both of them regarding a new course now that we have lost the majority support of the American public and much of the world community is troubled by our presence there. I am concerned that we heard nothing yesterday of an exit strategy -- an issue we in Congress are wrestling with on a bipartisan basis. We need a clear plan, rather than a continued wait-and-see approach. This plan should include redeployment and a stronger diplomatic effort with all factions within Iraq, as well as Iraq's neighbors to help foster reconciliation in the Middle East. My staff and I meet regularly with individuals and groups -- especially on issues as emotional as the Middle East. Some people I talk to want to pretend we never went to Iraq. Others are equally convinced that we should never leave. As for me, I have spent considerable time in that region. And I have seen first hand what a mess the Administration has made there. While I believe that the next administration will ultimately have to fix the problem, I am committed to finding positive bi-partisan options as soon as possible. But as we work toward a solution, we cannot forget the realities of the entire region. We cannot forget our obligations to our country, to our troops and to the innocent victims of the war who live there. I will continue to keep an open mind and continue to listen to all points of view as situations and conditions change." # # #
09.11.2007	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that a grant of $133,375 has been awarded to the City of Lemoore to enhance school safety. These funds are being awarded through the Department of Justice Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) to the Secure Our Schools (SOS) program to improve security in and around schools. The SOS program grants will be dispersed among 152 local law enforcement agencies to enhance school safety in 36 states. "Students should be concentrating on their work, not worrying about their safety," said Costa. "It is our duty to provide a safe learning environment for our students and faculty, which is why programs such as Secure Our Schools are so vital to our community." The SOS program will provide up to 50 percent of the total cost for municipalities to install metal detectors, locks, lighting, and other equipment to help prevent crime. The grants can also be used to pay half of the cost of security assessments, security training, and other measures that will provide significant improvements in security. Since 1995, COPS has invested $12.4 billion to advance community policing and awarded grants to more than 13,000 state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies. These funds were allocated to hire more than 117,000 officers and provide a variety of knowledge resource products, such as training, technical assistance, and conferences. For additional information about COPS Secure Our Schools program, and to view a list of municipalities that received grants, visit COPS website at https://www.cops.uddoj.gov/. # # #
09.07.2007	FRESNO, CA -- Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) is seeking local high school students interested in attending the prestigious service academies in the United States. Applications are available to all high school students residing in the 20th Congressional District in both of Costa's district offices, located in Fresno and Bakersfield. The deadline for submission is Friday, November 9, 2007. "Our nation's service academies are some of the top universities in the world, and some of the greatest heroes in our nation's history have attended them. Cadets who graduate from any of the service academies come away with great discipline and leadership abilities that are useful in the military, and any other career path graduates may choose," said Costa. Students wishing to attend a service academy must obtain a Congressional appointment, and complete an application obtained from Costa's office. Qualified applicants will be scheduled for an interview with Costa's Academy Selection Committee, which is composed of community leaders in the 20th Congressional District. The Committee and Costa will seek out well-rounded individuals who meet the rigorous academic, leadership, and community involvement standards. Those students in Fresno and Kings Counties who would like more information or an application can contact Kelly Gill in Costa's Fresno District Office at (559) 495-1620, or stop by the office located at 855 "M" Street, Fresno, CA. Students in Kern County should contact Nicole Villaruz in Costa's Bakersfield District Office at (661) 869-1620, or stop by the office located at 2700 "M" Street, Bakersfield, CA.
09.04.2007	FRESNO, CA - Monday, September 3rd, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) will be attending a Labor Day breakfast at the Fresno Fairgrounds and will be available to the press to comment on the Delta water hearing and to discuss issues Congress will take up in September, including the new White House immigration rule and AgJobs. WHO: Rep. Jim Costa, D-FresnoWHAT: Media Availability WHEN: Monday September 3, 2007, 10:00amWHERE: Fresno Fairgrounds, Industry Commerce Building 1121 S. Chance Fresno, CA 93702
09.04.2007	FRESNO, CA - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) released this statement regarding the Delta water ruling. The Congressman will be attending a Labor Day breakfast at the Fresno Fairgrounds' Industry Commerce Building Monday September 3, 2007 and will be available to the press at 10:00 am to comment on the Delta water ruling. "Today's ruling by Judge Wanger to again reduce water deliveries south of the Delta is deeply disappointing to me and the people I represent who rely heavily on these water deliveries for drinking supply, water quality, and crops. While the calculations of the impacts are still being developed, it is clear that the net impact will be staggering. To say that these water supplies are the life-blood of many areas is not an understatement. It is unfortunate that once again, one portion of the state is compelled to shoulder the burden of sacrifice while 20 plus million residents of the state of California utilize the waters of the Delta. Water deliveries pumped south of the Delta represent only one of the many possible reasons for the decline of the Delta Smelt. The impact of nearly 1800 unscreened diversions in the Delta or the impact of water temperature, toxicity factors in and around the Delta, as well as competing species and predators do not receive the same scrutiny. Decisions such as this do not take into account fully the human costs, the economic and quality of life impacts faced by the disadvantaged communities and industries that rely on the flow of this vital resource. I would again call upon the courts and the appropriate agencies to apply an even hand in the carrying out these mandates. The lives and livelihoods of millions of Californians depend on it. This decision makes it imperative now more than ever that we focus on increasing the water supply for our state. Climate change is happening, and our water supply and delivery system has changed little over the last 35 years when our population was less than 20 million people. Our population is now 37 million and growing, and we need to address the supply and delivery of water systems to sustain that growth for our cities and farms. Solutions that are practical and cost effective must be implemented for the Delta, as well as the state's water supply, water quality and flood control, while balancing the needs of the environment. We must come together at the federal, state and local levels on the water crisis facing us, because what's at stake is California's economic future."
08.24.2007	FRESNO, CA - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) sent a letter to Department of Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff expressing concerns over the implementation of new regulations addressing Social Security "no match" letters. Costa sent the letter along with Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Congressman Dennis Cardoza (D-Atwater), and Congressman George Radanovich (R-Mariposa). "The new regulations will not solve immigration issues in this country. They will only wreak havoc on American business," said Costa. "These no-match letters are a Catch-22 for employers. They face heavy fines and criminal indictments if they do not terminate workers, and are subject to legal action if they do. This is a no-win scenario for American business and the American consumer." When an employer hires new employees, legal identifying documents are obtained, including Social Security cards, and sent to the government. The Social Security Administration then verifies the submitted Social Security numbers and if they do not match with the employee, a letter is sent to employers informing them of the inconsistency. New regulations on immigration established by the Department of Homeland Security create additional penalties for employers without making needed changes to current law to protect the rights of legal workers and employers, and prevent undue burden on the employer. Because the agriculture industry in California employs a largely immigrant-based workforce, these new guidelines will create disruptions in the workplace that will have catastrophic economic consequences. "Agriculture is a labor-intensive business, and if the Department of Homeland Security wishes to take away the agricultural workforce, who do they suggest should harvest the remainder of this season's crops? Maybe Secretary Chertoff and his colleagues would like to roll up their sleeves and join us in the fields," said Costa.
08.23.2007	FRESNO, CA - Tomorrow, Friday August 24th, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) will be available to the press to discuss issues Congress will take up in September, the impacts of the new White House immigration rule, and a recent meeting with Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) regarding AgJobs. WHO: Rep. Jim Costa, D-Fresno WHAT: Media Availability WHEN: Friday August 24th, 2007, 1:00pm WHERE: Hodel's Country Dining 5917 Knudsen Drive (corner of Olive Drive and Knudsen Drive) Bakersfield, CA 93308
08.22.2007	FRESNO, CA - Congressman Jim Costa, D-Fresno, will be traveling throughout the district on Wednesday and Friday this week. He will be available to the media following each of these events. Please call for more information or interviews. Wednesday August 22, 2007 At 4pm, Costa will be in Hanford touring the First Family Healthcare Network Clinic. The healthcare center is located at 328 West 8th Street in Hanford. Following this tour, Costa will attend the grand opening of the Home Garden Clinic in Hanford at 5:30pm. The address is 11899 Shaw Place. Friday August 24th, 2007 At 7:30am, Costa will receive the Spirit of Enterprise Award from the Bakersfield Chamber of Commerce for his strong voting record on business-related issues during the 109th Congress. This event will take place at 1725 Eye Street in Bakersfield.
08.22.2007	FRESNO, CA - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced today he will host a grant workshop to acquaint non-profit organizations and local governments with federal funding opportunities as well as local grant writing resources. Agencies providing information include the USDA Rural Development, United Way of Fresno County and the American Humanics Program at California State University, Fresno. The workshop will be held on Monday, August 27, at the Mosqueda Community Center - Multimedia Room, 4670 E. Butler Ave , Fresno , CA 93702 in Fresno from 8:30 a.m. to noon. "The workshop aims to provide a better understanding of the federal grants process and show local leaders how to increase their chances of securing funding," Costa said. "Grant applications can be intimidating, and the workshop will provide information on grant resources and examples of successful grant proposals." Last year, Congressman Costa hosted a similar informational workshop showcasing grant programs through Housing and Urban Development and it was very well-received. The workshop is free and open to the public. Those who plan to attend are asked to register with Fabiola González in Congressman Costa's Fresno District Office at (559) 495-1620 or via e-mail at \n This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. " href="mailto: \n This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. "> '); document.write(addy89811); document.write('<\/a>'); //-->\n fabiola.gonzalez@mail.house.gov '); //--> This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. '); //--> .
08.08.2007	FRESNO, CA - Congressman Jim Costa, D-Fresno, will be traveling throughout the district tomorrow during the month long district work period. He will be available to the media following each of these events. Please call for more information or interviews. Thursday August 9th, 2007 From 12:00pm to 12:15pm, Costa will be in Hanford at a high-speed rail special session, which is being hosted by the California Partnership for the San Joaquin Valley. Costa will give an update on federal legislation to develop high-speed rail throughout the nation. This event will be held at the Hanford City Auditorium West Wing located at 400 N. Douty Street. At 1:00pm, Costa will be giving the keynote speech at the California Partnership to End Domestic Violence conference. Following his speech, Costa will be given an award by the organization for his work to end domestic violence. The conference will be held at the Four Points Sheraton Hotel, located at 3737 N. Blackstone Avenue, Fresno, CA 93726.
08.07.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) applauded the House of Representatives approval of the 2007 Farm Bill. The House passed the five-year reauthorization today by a vote of 231-191. "My Valley colleagues and I worked hard to ensure that the Farm Bill represents meaningful reform to farm programs that reflect the priorities and need of our Valley farmers and families," Costa stated. Such reforms include increasing the funding for nutrition, expanding school lunch and snack programs and bringing a focus to healthy food options like fruits and vegetables. The bill also focused on supplementing conservation programs by adding an additional $2 billion over five years to the Environmental Quality Incentive Program (EQIP) and targeting $150 million toward addressing air quality concerns. For the first time, this Farm Bill will provide $1.6 billion in funding over five years to the specialty crop growers for research and grants that will ensure the continued success and competitiveness of the industry. Costa, a member of the House Agriculture Committee noted, "I am proud of the House-passed 2007 Farm Bill and I am confident that these programs will be a great step forward for California Agriculture."
08.07.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced today that $831,000 in federal funding was secured for California Agriculture Commissioners and Sealers Association's Pest Detection Augmentation Program in the Fiscal Year 2008 Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Appropriations bill. The bill was passed on the House floor Thursday night by a vote of 237 to 18. Following last week's passage on the House floor, the bill will head to the Senate for consideration. Once passed by the Senate, the bill will then head into a Conference Committee where the House and Senate will resolve the differences between their versions. Following conference, the bills will again be sent to the House and Senate for final approval, after which they will be sent to the President for his signature. "With California's crops at risk from a variety of exotic diseases and pests, detection is the first line of the defense for our Valley's farmers," said Costa. "This funding assists agencies to purchase more traps and detection equipment to prevent major pest outbreaks on our Valley's crops." The California County Pest Trapping Program is a statewide program, operated by county agricultural commissioners, that maintains a statewide network of insect traps and other detection tools to serve as an early warning system against serious agricultural pests. Traps are placed in high risk areas of the counties throughout the state, near host trees and plants particularly attractive to these pests.
08.07.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced today that $2 million in federal funding was secured for Lemoore Naval Air Station's Local Situational Awareness Systems in the Fiscal Year 2008 Defense Appropriations bill. The bill will was passed on the House floor early Sunday morning by a vote of 395 to 13. Following this weekend's passage on the House floor, the bill will head to the Senate for consideration. Once passed by the Senate, the bill will then head into a Conference Committee where the House and Senate will resolve the differences between their versions. Following conference, the bills will again be sent to the House and Senate for final approval, after which they will be sent to the President for his signature. "This is great news for Lemoore NAS," said Costa. "Funding for this project will help to protect aircraft and infrastructure investments, as well as the men and women serving at Lemoore. This is critical funding to make improvements at Lemoore and to its future mission." The Local Situational Awareness Systems provides access control, monitoring perimeter security, and detecting and responding to a wide array of contingencies ranging from hazardous materials spills to terrorist attacks. The project will finalize the NAS Lemoore Physical Security technology enhancements by providing automated perimeter security through the incorporation of technology enhancements and surveillance on the flight line perimeter fences surrounding the Lemoore operations area and the missile and ordnance magazine areas.
07.26.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced today that $400,000 in federal funding was secured for State Route 198 Expressway in Kings County in the Fiscal Year 2008 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill. The bill will was passed on the House floor Tuesday night by a vote of 268 to 153. Following this week's passage on the House floor, the bill will head into a Conference Committee where the House and Senate will resolve the differences between their versions. Following conference, the bills will again be sent to the House and Senate for final approval, after which they will be sent to the President for his signature. "This is great news for Kings County," said Costa. "Route 198 is in need of these funds to widen the route into four lanes not only for the safety of commuters, but to help ease traffic for residents in Kings County. I am very pleased I could help Kings County out with this earmark." The proposed project would widen State Route 198 to a four lane expressway, meeting current day safety standards. The project is rated as the highest priority in the State of California's Regional Transportation Improvement Program (TIP). The project also will provide a utility easement outside of the state right-of-way, thus providing safer access for utility maintenance vehicles and reducing potential conflicts with commuters. Overall, the increased capacity of State Route 198 is estimated to save 320,000 vehicle-hours of delay annually.
07.20.2007	FRESNO, CA - On Friday, July 20th, Congressman Jim Costa, D-Fresno, will be available to the press to discuss recent Congressional action on the Farm Bill, as it was marked-up in the House Agriculture Committee this week, and will now proceed to the House floor for a vote. WHO: Rep. Jim Costa, D-Fresno WHAT: Media Availability WHEN: Friday, July 20th, at 1:15pm WHERE: Fresno-Yosemite International Airport 4995 E Clinton Way Fresno, CA 93727
07.18.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced today that $1,500,000 in federal funding was secured for Semitropic Water Storage District in the Fiscal Year 2008 Energy and Water Appropriations bill, which the House of Representatives approved yesterday by a vote of 312 to 112. Following yesterday's House floor action, the bill will head into a Conference Committee where the House and Senate will resolve the differences between their versions. Following conference, the bills will again be sent to the House and Senate for final approval, after which they will be sent to the President for his signature. "These are vital funds to Semitropic to help expand groundwater storage capacity," said Costa. "Water storage will always be a critical need in our Valley, and these funds come at the right time to help Semitropic expand their current capacity level." Costa has long been a strong advocate for water issues in the Valley and California, both during his time in the State Legislature and in Congress. Recently, Costa helped form the Congressional Water Caucus with goals of promoting dialogue among Members of Congress and staff about water quality, supply and access. In a year where California is experiencing drought conditions, these funds will be used to provide facilities toward an ultimate goal of an additional 650,000 acre feet of storage and a minimum of 200,000 acre feet per year of recovery capacity cited in the CALFED Record of Decision. Groundwater storage, such as the Semitropic project, is a significant and necessary part of providing a reliable water supply for Valley farmers and provides the opportunity to partner with urban water users who participate with Semptropic.
07.12.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today Congressman Jim Costa (D- Fresno) supported H.R. 2669, the College Cost Reduction Act of 2007. HR 2669 increases Pell Grants and cuts student interest rates which will make college more affordable for low and middle income students and families. The bill also increases scholarships and reduces loan costs at no new expense to U.S. taxpayers. "There is no better investment in the future of our nation than investing in today's young people," said Costa. "It should be a priority of government to ensure college is accessible and affordable to all Americans. This bill is a step in that direction." As a strong advocate for Pell Grants, Costa wrote in 2005 to the Appropriations Subcommittee on Education and Labor to increase the maximum Pell Grant scholarship to $4,500. HR 2669 allows the maximum value of Pell Grants scholarships to increase by $500 over the next five years, to a total scholarship of $5,200. California State University Bakersfield's (CSUB) preliminary annual report estimated there were 3,181 Pell Grant recipients during the 2006-2007 school year; while California State University Fresno (CSUF) had slightly over 8,000 students receiving Pell Grants. H.R. 2669 raises the Pell Grant eligibility requirements from yearly incomes under $20,000 to yearly incomes under $30,000. CSUF estimates that with the new requirements, 1,388 of their students would eligible to qualify to receive a Pell Grant.
07.12.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) and Congressman Devin Nunes, (R-Visalia) introduced legislation to designate approximately 69,000 acres of land in the Sequoia-Kings Canyon National Park as the John Krebs Wilderness. In addition, the bill proposes enlarging an existing wilderness area by adding 43,450 acres to the Sequoia-Kings Canyon National Park designation. Former Congressman John Krebs represented the 17th Congressional District in California between 1975 and 1979. "John was, and still is, a strong voice for our Valley," said Costa. "He was a focused leader in Congress, and naming this wilderness area is a fitting tribute to him. I am excited be an original sponsor, and I look forward to seeing it pass through Congress. It was his effort in Congress that set aside and protected Mineral King. Thus this honor is fitting and appropriate." "Wilderness designations have historically been highly contentious. I am pleased that we were able to work together to ensure that all of the concerns of my constituents were addressed prior to moving forward. This is the right way to govern and I believe this proposal will garner strong bipartisan support," said Rep. Nunes Congressman Krebs was born in Berlin, Germany in 1926 and moved to Israel in 1933. He started practicing law in Fresno in 1958, and served as a member of the Fresno County Planning Commission from 1965 to 1969. He then served on the Fresno County Board of Supervisors from 1970 to 1974 before elected to the 94th Congress in 1974. Krebs is now retired and lives in Fresno.
07.09.2007	FRESNO, CA - Today, Friday June 29th, Congressman Jim Costa, D-Fresno, will be available to the press to discuss recent Congressional action on the recently passed appropriations bills, immigration, and the upcoming Farm Bill. WHO: Rep. Jim Costa, D-Fresno WHAT: Media Availability WHEN: Friday June 29, 2007, 3:15pm WHERE: Office of Congressman Jim Costa 855 M Street, Suite 940 Fresno, CA 93721
07.09.2007	FRESNO, CA - Tomorrow, Tuesday July 3rd, Congressman Jim Costa, D-Fresno, and Congresswoman Grace Napolitano, D-CA, will be available to the press to discuss today's field hearing of the Subcommittee on Water and Power regarding the health of the Delta. WHO: Rep. Jim Costa, D-Fresno and Rep. Grace Napolitano, D-CA WHAT: Media Availability WHEN: Friday July 3rd, 2007, 11:00am WHERE: Nilmeier Farms 7373 E. North Avenue (Between Temperance and DeWoolf) Sanger, CA 93657
06.28.2007	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that a grant of $3,373,245 has been awarded to the Kings Community Action Organization in Hanford, CA their for Head Start and Early Head Start program. These funds are being award through the United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Head Start program title, and will be used to make improvements to the Head Start program in Hanford. "This is great news for Hanford," said Costa. "Head Start programs are critical for young children to get a jump-start on their education. I am looking forward to see what the program does with this grant money." Head Start provides comprehensive early childhood education and development services to low-income preschool children on a part- or full-day basis. Under current law, Head Start funds are provided directly by HHS to local grantees, which must comply with detailed federal performance standards.
06.27.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced comprehensive new energy principles laid out by the Blue Dog Coalition this week. Among these principles is increasing U.S. energy security, increasing domestic supply, diversifying our energy portfolio with renewable energy sources, and encouraging research and development in new energy technologies to address climate change and conservation. These principles will be used by the Coalition to guide Congress as a new national energy policy is written. "As the Chairman of the Energy and Mineral Resources subcommittee, I look forward to working with my colleagues to help craft a forward-thinking energy bill that looks at the big picture, and admit that there is no silver bullet for solving our nation's energy challenges," said Costa. "We must increase domestic production of fossil fuels while at the same time focusing on renewables, conservation, and ensuring that we strike the proper balance of development of our nation's abundant resources and good environmental stewardship." Costa and the Blue Dog Coalition will work with Congress over the next few weeks to craft a national energy policy which not only secures our national and economic security, but also diversifies our energy portfolio, and provides Americans with reliable and affordable energy sources. The eight energy principles drafted by the Blue Dog Coalition are Energy "PayGo", Climate Change, Fuel Diversity, Consistent and Transparent Federal Energy Policy, Affordable Energy, Electricity, Technology Development, and Energy Efficiency. The conservative Blue Dog Coalition was formed in 1995 with the goal of representing the center of the House of Representatives and appealing to the mainstream values of the American public. The Blue Dogs are dedicated to a core set of beliefs that transcend partisan politics, including a deep commitment to the financial stability and national security of the United States. Costa is one of the 47 members of the Blue Dog Coalition. More information about the Blue Dog Coalition can be found at: https://www.house.gov/ross/BlueDogs/index.html.
06.25.2007	Washington, D.C. - Today, the United States House of Representatives passed emergency funding legislation for Hurricane Katrina. This legislation includes $10 billion in disaster relief for the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). This funding will help meet the immediate needs from the consequences of Hurricane Katrina In addition, the legislation includes $500 million for the Department of Defense expenses. This funding will be used to cover the costs of emergency hurricane expenses of evacuation, emergency repairs, deployment of personnel and other expenses resulting from immediate relief efforts. Congressman Costa is available for comment at 559-495-1620. ###
06.25.2007	Today, the House Resources Committee agreed to two amendments introduced by Congressman Jim Costa to the Threatened and Endangered Species Recovery Act. The Threatened and Endangered Species Recovery Act updates the Endangered Species Act. Both amendments recognize the importance of local planning agencies and identify a role for them when considering recovery planning of endangered species. The first amendment gives a voice to local preservation efforts. "Like the Super Williamson Act," whose intent is to protect prime agricultural land and provide habitat for native species, this amendment also accomplishes these goals. In many cases, agricultural land in our Valley is one of the best hedges against unplanned growth. In addition, this amendment also allows for input on local projects like the San Joaquin River Parkway that represents a multi-level agency effort to preserve, maintain and enhance a 23 mile stretch of the San Joaquin River," Costa said. Congressman Costa's second amendment reflects local communities' efforts to develop spheres of influence to affect planned growth. "If Congress wants to modify the Endangered Species Act, it must be done in a balanced and reasonable fashion," Costa stated. "My amendments reflect the smart planning decisions local communities are capable of making that can enhance the prospects for species survival without negative impact to the community as a whole." The Threatened and Endangered Species Recovery Act is a bi-partisan measure introduced by Congressmen Richard Pombo and Dennis Cardoza. It is meant to improve and update the original 1973 Endangered Species Act. The Threatened and Endangered Species Recovery Act was voted on and passed the House Resources Committee today. It will be voted on by the House of Representatives the week of September 26, 2005. "I look forward to working with my colleagues to make a common-sense recovery plan that makes changes that are needed to improve the original 1973 Act," Costa concluded. ###
06.25.2007	Fresno, CA - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) announced that Fresno County will receive approximately $560,000 from the United States Department of Justice and the United States Department Health and Human Services. "These funds play an integral role in the county's ability to maintain a safe environment in which residents can thrive," Congressman Costa said. The Fresno County Sheriff Department will receive $110,000 for the DNA Capacity Enhancement and Forensic Casework DNA Backlog Reduction programs. A portion of these funds will be used to improve laboratory infrastructure and analysis capacity which will allow the Sheriff's Department to process DNA samples in an efficient and cost effective manner. The remainder will be used to analyze backlogged forensic DNA casework. In addition, Community Regional Medical Center in Fresno will receive approximately $450,000 from the Health Resources and Services Administration which is under the Department of Health and Human Services. The grant money allocated under the Health Care and Other Facilities Program will be used to improve facilities and purchase equipment for an outpatient care clinic at Community Regional Medical Center. "The realization of DNA technology's full potential will help keep our community safe. In addition, funding medical technology is critical to providing the best health care possible," Costa concluded. ###
06.25.2007	Fresno, CA - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) announced that Kern County will receive approximately $310,000 from the United States Department of Justice and the United States Department Health and Human Services. "These funds play an integral role in the county's ability to maintain a safe environment in which residents can thrive," Congressman Costa said. The Kern County District Attorney will receive $71,352 for the DNA Capacity Enhancement program. These funds will be used to improve laboratory infrastructure and analysis capacity, which will allow the District Attorney's office to process DNA samples in an efficient and cost effective manner. In addition, Kern Medical Center in Bakersfield will receive approximately $245,516 from the Health Resources and Services Administration which is under the Department of Health and Human Services. The grant money allocated under the Health Care and Other Facilities Program will be used to purchase new equipment for Kern Medical Center. "The realization of DNA technology's full potential will help keep our community safe. In addition, funding medical technology is critical to providing the best health care possible," Costa concluded. ###
06.25.2007	Fresno, CA - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) announced a Department of Health and Human Services grant to California's 20th Congressional District. "The funds awarded to Fresno County Human Services System's Healthy Start Program aim at eliminating racial and ethnic disparities and provide the department with the necessary tools to achieve their mission," Congressman Costa said. Fresno County Human Services System will receive $1,500,000 to provide a variety of services to educate and inform the community about the detrimental effects of inequities among race and ethnicity. "Through implementation of programs and classes Healthy Start will make great strides toward the elimination of racial and ethnic disparities within the community," concluded Costa. #
06.25.2007	Fresno, CA - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) announced a Department of Housing and Urban Development grant to California's 20th Congressional District. "The Indian Housing Block Grant will provide considerable funds to help provide affordable housing and services to the Santa Rosa Rancheria," Congressman Costa said. The funds are awarded under the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act (NAHASDA) of 1996, and the total Santa Rosa Rancheria will receive is $398,387. Santa Rosa Rancheria can use the Indian Housing funds to provide a variety of affordable housing alternatives within their community. In terms of providing housing these funds potentially could be used to construct new housing or rehabilitate rental and owner-occupied housing. The grant can also be used to provide housing services, such as management for low-income housing, crime prevention and other safety measures. "Through the use of these funds the Santa Rosa Rancheria will establish and maintain a safe environment in which the community can prosper," concluded Congressman Costa.
06.25.2007	Fresno, CA - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) announced grant funding totaling near $135 million that is available from the United States Department of Justice's Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS). Three grants are currently available to select law enforcement agencies: Interoperable Communications Technology program, Secure our Schools program and Tribal Resources Grant program. "These grant programs are assets to the community and all who are eligible should apply," Congressman Costa said Roughly $100 million is available from the Interoperable Communications Technology programs, which can be used to enhance the effectiveness of public safety communications systems. Specifically, interoperable communications refers to the ability of public safety agencies to talk across various agencies and localities to exchange needed information in a timely manner. The Secure our Schools program offers approximately $15 million to improve schools safety equipment and programs. Schools can use awarded grants to install metal detectors, provide security assessments and training options and coordinate with local law enforcement on implementation of school safety measures. Tribal Resources Grants program allocates up to $20 million in funding for various tribal law enforcement agencies. These funds can be used to execute law enforcement training, provide uniforms, issue basic equipment and maintain vehicles for new and existing officers. "These funds will supply our law enforcement officials with the necessary tools to implement procedures that will allow them to maintain public safety," Costa concluded. Please visit https://www.cops.usdoj.gov/default.asp?Item=1474 for more information about these grants and the invited agencies. #
06.25.2007	Fresno, CA - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) announced that schools are eligible to apply for the Live In-Flight Downlink offered by NASA Spaceflight Education Opportunities (NSEO); which allows students, educators and community members to communicate with in-flight astronauts. "This is an exciting chance for students to gain first-hand knowledge on a range of subjects from interacting with crewmembers on an in-space flight," Congressman Costa said. The live in-flight downlink allows students and educators to interact with the crew for 20 minutes and is provided at no cost to the host organization. This will be part of a well-planned education experience and help to expand on the information students have received in schools. Interested schools are encouraged to submit applications, which will be judged on a number of criteria. The downlink must be designed to respond to a need identified by the education community, make direct use of NASA to involve educators and students from a diverse community and expand on already existing science, technology, engineering and mathematics programs in the school. Please visit https://aesp.nasa.okstate.edu/jsc/tfsp/Documents/howtoguide.pdf for additional information. Or contact Fabiola González at my Fresno District Office, 559-495-1620. #
06.25.2007	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20), a co-founder of the Congressional Victims' Rights Caucus, announced that the Crime Victims Fund is maintained in the House Appropriations bill. The President's budget proposed a $1.2 billion rescission of the Fund. Fortunately, the Science, State, Justice and Commerce House Appropriations bill does not include the rescission. "Over the last several months, I have worked tirelessly to make sure the Crime Victims Fund is protected. This funding provides invaluable services to victims and their families and it is great news that this funding will remain intact," Costa said. The Fund was enacted to pay for victims' services and compensations. It operates with money collected from criminal offenders, not taxpayers. Once collected, the funding is distributed to victims and organizations that provide victims' services. There are approximately 4,400 agencies that depend upon the victim assistance funds to provide direct services to 3.6 million crime victims a year. The Fund helps provide funding for domestic violence shelters, victims' compensation for court costs, funeral services and medical expenses. Congressman Costa, along with approximately 100 Members of Congress, urged the President and Appropriations Committee not to rescind the Crime Victims Fund. In addition, Congressman Costa participated in a national press conference on Capitol Hill that drew attention to the Crime Victims Fund. "The Crime Victims Fund is vital to many communities and organizations that rely on it for victims' services and compensation. In the 20th congressional district, many organizations receive money from the Fund. Kern, Kings and Fresno county probation departments all receive funding. In addition, Clinica Sierra Vista uses the funding to provide health services to victims of crime and Marjaree Mason Center uses the funding to help victims of domestic violence," stated Costa. "Crime victims have suffered enough and it is important to remember how we can improve their lives and their families' lives. This Fund provides crucial services to victims," concluded Costa. #
06.25.2007	Washington DC - In celebration of Memorial Day week, Congressman Costa visits the troops. Congressman Costa was invited on an official congressional trip oversees that will include stops in Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, Afghanistan and Pakistan. In addition to military personnel, Costa will be joined by Representatives Mike Sodrel (IN-09) and Lincoln Davis (TN-04). "During the week of Memorial day, I will be visiting troops who are at the front lines of our war on terrorism. As a Member of Congress, if you vote to put American men and women in harms way, you should be prepared to see first-hand the challenges they are facing. In addition, I will be meeting with the leaders of these countries. I'm looking forward to seeing what the troops face on a day to day basis and expressing my strong support for the work they do" Costa stated. # # #
06.25.2007	Fresno, CA - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) announced the availability of funds from the United States Department of Homeland Security's Office of State and Local Government Coordination and Preparedness (SLGCP). Grants are available to local fire departments to recruit, hire and retain qualified volunteer and career firefighters. "All eligible Fire Departments should apply for these funds, which will greatly assist them in their role as facilitators of public safety," Congressman Costa said. The grant available is for a program called "SAFER" Firefighter Hiring; the monies received will assist local fire departments in hiring additional firefighters. These funds will also aid recruitment and retention programs aimed at the volunteer fire service. In the effort to support the hiring of firefighters a five-year grant will be awarded to fire departments to pay a portion of the salaries for newly hired firefighters. Departments will also be eligible to receive four-year grants that promote recruitment and retention programs, which help to maintain firefighting staff. Interested applicants should visit www.firegrantsupport.com or call the Department of Homeland Security Fire Grant Help Desk at (866)274-0960. "There are many mandates by which state and local governments must abide and this is a great opportunity to receive funding assistance for such programs," Costa concluded. #
06.25.2007	Fresno, CA - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) announced that two health organizations in the 20th district will receive federal funding, totaling near $678,000, from the United States Department of Health and Human Services. National Health Services, Inc. in Shafter and Clinica Sierra Vista, Inc. in Bakersfield have been awarded funds to expand medical capacity and provide oral health access. "The availability of proper health care to all citizens is important and these funds will help to provide essential health related services," Congressman Costa said. National Health Services, Inc. will receive $427,500 to expand medical capacity at existing health centers. The additional funds will allow this organization to help underserved individuals receive health care. Clinica Sierra Vista will receive $250,000 to make available for the first time oral health services. These health centers deliver comprehensive primary and preventive care to patients regardless of their ability to pay. Charges for health care services are set according to income and fees are not collected from extremely poor patients. "The funds provided by this grant will aid those who greatly need access to health care but cannot afford the financial burden," Costa concluded.
06.25.2007	Fresno, CA - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) announced that Community Action Partnership Bakersfield of Kern has been selected to receive funding, totaling near $100,000, under the Carol M. White Physical Education Program from the United States Department of Education. "Physical education is an important aspect of our educational system and these funds will allow schools to provide adequate activities for students to learn about healthy ways of living," Congressman Costa said. Community Action Partnership Bakersfield of Kern will receive $99,998 that will aid in helping students to understand, improve or maintain their physical well-being. These funds will also provide opportunities for professional development for teachers who are required to stay updated on current research and issues with regard to physical education. The Carol M. White Physical Education Program supports local education agencies and community-based organizations in their efforts to initiate, expand, or enhance physical education programs for students in kindergarten through 12th grade. The funds coming from this program will help awardees to provide teacher training, develop physical education and nutrition education curricula, conduct fitness assessments and purchase equipment. "Educating young children about the benefits of a healthy lifestyle is advantageous to creating an overall health conscious community," Costa concluded.
06.25.2007	Fresno, CA - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) announced that approximately $525,000 has been awarded to the City of Firebaugh from the Department of Housing and Community Development's HOME Investment Partnerships Program. "These funds play an integral role in creating and maintaining housing activities," Congressman Costa said. The City of Firebaugh's Tenant-Based Rental Assistance Program and First-Time Homebuyer Program are the beneficiaries of the grant. Both programs will receive a portion of the funds; the Tenant-Based Rental Assistance Program was awarded $125,000 and the First-Time Homebuyer Program was given $400,000. This grant is part of nearly $95 million being awarded to help meet the affordable housing needs of California families. The HOME Program funds will be implemented to support programs for homeownership, housing construction and housing rehabilitation. "Affordable housing is becoming difficult to attain for many families and this grant will be key in providing housing options to those families," Costa concluded.
06.25.2007	Fresno, CA - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) announced that $240,004 has been awarded to the City of Hanford from the Department of Housing and Community Development's HOME Investment Partnerships Program. "These funds play an integral role in creating and maintaining housing activities," Congressman Costa said. The City of Hanford's First-Time Homebuyer Acquisition-Only Program is the beneficiary of the grant. The entire amount, $240,004, will be awarded to the First-Time Homebuyer program. This grant is part of nearly $95 million being awarded to help meet the affordable housing needs of California families. The HOME Program funds will be implemented to support programs for homeownership, housing construction and housing rehabilitation. "Affordable housing is becoming difficult to attain for many families and this grant will be key in providing housing options to those families," Costa concluded.
06.25.2007	FRESNO, CA - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) led the effort to help relocate the Hanford Post Office. Representative Costa sent a letter to the District Manager of the United States Postal Service in the hopes that he could communicate the need for a bigger facility to accommodate the city's growth. A city's post office must be able to expand as the city expands; unfortunately Hanford has grown and the Post Office has not been able to increase services accordingly. The text of the letter follows. Dear District Manager Tovar, Ms. Virginia Tovar District Manager of Van Nuys District United States Postal Service 28201 Frankin Parkway Santa Clarita, CA 91354-9991 Dear District Manager Tovar, I write today to express my strong support for the relocation of the Hanford Post Office. As a member of the Congress, I strive everyday to improve our communities for the people of the San Joaquin Valley. As you know, a city's post office plays a central role in the community, affecting the everyday lives of its residents. This is the case in the growing city of Hanford, California, located in the Congressional District that I am proud to represent. Unfortunately, the size, location and safety risks of Hanford's current Post Office fail to adequately serve our population. Four decades have passed since the Hanford Post Office was built to serve 12,000 people and 5 routes. Since then, the population has reached 50,000 and the Hanford Post Office has expanded to serve 32 routes. Strapped for space, the facility was forced to lease an extra parking lot in order to accommodate the increased patronage. In addition, the facility presents a major health risk - the flooring contains asbestos, a hazardous material that can cause lung cancer, threatening the employees and customers. The cost of tile removal is estimated to be $90,000. The conditions of the current Post Office are already dire. With a population growth rate of 5 percent, I fear the situation is only further doomed. In light of increasing population and serious health risks, it is clear to me that the Post Office of 1961 can no longer best serve our community in the 21st century. Hanford's municipal, state, and federal elected officials, downtown organizations, business groups and citizens have joined together with a solution. In order to best benefit the USPS and the residents of Hanford, we propose relocating the Post Office to the former Sears building which now sits empty in the very heart of Hanford. With adequate space, an ideal location and the owners behind our mission, we hope to move the Post Office to this new location. The relocation of the Hanford Post Office offers a long-term positive impact on our community. Residents will benefit from a more convenient and less crowded post office. The USPS will see enhanced productivity in a prime location to conduct business, more customer traffic and a healthy spacious work place for employees. And finally the community will gain an important contribution to the vitality of downtown Hanford. Over the past four decades, the city of Hanford has made a concerted and successful effort to enhance its downtown and the relocation of the Hanford Post Office represents an important step in that ongoing revitalization project. Thank you for your careful consideration on this important matter. I invite you to participate in a meeting with myself and other local leaders in order to outline a course of action on how to proceed with the relocation of the Hanford Post Office. Please contact me or my staff member Cheryl Lehn at (559) 495-1620 to organize this meeting. It is my hope that you join me in my efforts to improve the Central Valley. Sincerely, Jim Costa Member of Congress
06.25.2007	Fresno, CA - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) announced his support for the Executive Order creating "A California Partnership for the San Joaquin Valley." This partnership will bring together various government and private entities committed to bringing about economic growth and prosperity within the San Joaquin Valley. "This is an exciting opportunity for several entities to bring their diverse knowledge to the drawing board and rededicate themselves to implementing a plan for revitalizing the San Joaquin Valley," Congressman Costa stated. All members of the partnership will be appointed by the Governor and will include eight state government officials, eight private sector employees, and two deputy chairs. Various state officials will also serve as ex officio members. Those involved on the Federal level will include the state's Congressional Representatives and the federal Task Force for the Economic Recovery of the San Joaquin Valley. Together these groups will promote projects with the federal government that the Partnership has deemed necessary in the area. The Partnership will look to the University of California, California State University, California Community Colleges and other educational institutions and private foundations to provide a framework for supplemental studies that will be helpful in identifying areas and ways of improvement. "Building working relationships with various governmental and nongovernmental agencies and valuing the input of these various agencies is a step in the right direction toward improving our Valley's economy. Together we will have a better ability to advocate on behalf of the San Joaquin Valley," Congressman Costa concluded.
06.25.2007	Fresno, CA - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) announced that approximately $200,000 has been awarded to United Health Centers of San Joaquin Valley, Inc. in Parlier from the United States Department of Health and Human Services. The grant will be used as supplemental funding to expand the facility's services. "Making healthcare available to those often overlooked by the system is of vital interest to us all and these funds will help to promote this important task," Congressman Costa Stated. United Health Centers of San Joaquin Valley, Inc. currently provides health related services to seven cities within Fresno County. The organization has served as a rural health collaborative that reaches out to underprivileged communities and offers assistance to members of those communities. In Parlier, individuals can partake in preventative health measures, obtain access to dental and pharmaceutical services, acquire pre-natal and peri-natal care and receive treatment for a variety of other health related ailments. The center utilizes numerous programs, such as Medi Cal and Sliding Fees, to help the people they serve pay for the much needed care offered by United Health Centers of San Joaquin Valley, Inc. "Rural residents benefit greatly from programs such as these and it is our job to continue to do the best we can to implement similar programs throughout the Valley," Congressman Costa concluded.
06.25.2007	Fresno, CA - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) announced his support for the national program aimed at identifying the "100 Best Communities for Young People." Cities and towns have the chance to compete for the title based on the opportunities and experiences they offer their youth. "In our country there are numerous diverse communities that provide our youth with unique experiences and the recognition provided by this program allows these communities to broaden their outreach efforts," Congressman Costa stated. "100 Best Communities for Young People" was initiated by America's Promise Alliance, Capital One and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. This competition will bring together the resources of the private and public sectors to identify communities that deliver healthy, safe and caring environments. The recognition is valuable because the environments created by these communities foster effective education and help young people become productive citizens. Interested communities can gather more information, or apply online, at www.americaspromise.org. "Today's youth are tomorrow's leaders and it is our job to create an environment in which they can develop the variety of skills needed to navigate throughout life," Congressman Costa concluded.
06.25.2007	Congressman Jim Costa will spend the day in Bakersfield on Thursday, July 7, 2005. Representative Costa will attend the Kern County Water Agency Press Conference where he will award the 2004 and 2005 annual Jim Costa - Kern County Water Agency Resources Fellowship to past recipient Brian Taylor, California State University, Bakersfield graduate and current recipient Joanna Oseguera a CSUB student. This Fellowship is awarded based on academic excellence and pursuit of study in a water resources related field. Congressman Costa will be available for comment following the press conference. When: Thursday, July 7, 2005 Time: 2:00-3:00 pm Place: Kern County Water Agency Board Room 3200 Rio Mirada Bakersfield, CA For More Information Contact: Kherstin Khan: 559-495-1620 Jack Hall: 559-930-7956 #
06.25.2007	Fresno, CA - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) announced that the United States Department of Labor has awarded Employer's Training Resource of Kern County $1,753,577 from a National Farmworker Jobs Program Grant. "The availability of adequate job training programs to all citizens is important and these funds will help to provide useful work related services to our migrant and seasonal farmworkers," Congressman Costa said. Employer's Training Resource is Kern County's local workforce investment organization and operates numerous programs related to job placement and training. Through funds received from various governmental levels Employer's Training Resource is able to provide assistance at Career Service Centers to the farmworkers in the San Joaquin Valley. This particular grant will allow Employer's Training Resource of Kern County to concentrate efforts on expanding farmworkers' access to employment in occupations identified as having growth potential in Kern County. Energy, transportation and health services are examples of such occupations. "Because economic growth is cyclical and manages to impact all community members it is important that we support and maintain training efforts as it relates to employment opportunities for all citizens," Costa concluded.
06.25.2007	Fresno, CA - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) announced that nearly $500,000 has been awarded to Valley Health Team, Inc. from the United States Department of Health and Human Services. The grant will be used to fund the expansion of the facility's rural healthcare services. "Healthcare availability to all citizens is necessary to foster consciousness about healthy habits that benefit all community members," Congressman Costa Stated. Valley Health Team, Inc. is one of 13 health centers in the Central Valley Health Network. The organization reaches out to rural communities of west Fresno County and offers assistance to members of those communities. The funds received, in the amount of $489,114, will be used to help the Valley Health Team, Inc. make progress on implementation of the agency's goals. Providing educational services to young parents, providing basic health education and preventive services to farmworkers and working to lower the rates of teenage pregnancy are just a few of this organization's aspirations. "The funds offered through the Department of Health and Human Services will allow the Valley Health Team, Inc. to positively impact our area's rural health needs," Congressman Costa concluded.
06.25.2007	Fresno, CA - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) announced that the US Department of State is accepting applications for the Fulbright Teacher Exchange Program 2006-2007 academic year. "All eligible teachers should apply because this is a great opportunity to not only share, but also gain cultural knowledge," Congressman Costa said. The Fulbright Teacher Exchange program was initiated in 1946; since then numerous teachers have experienced life in another country. Many countries have participated over the years and for the upcoming academic year Argentina, Brazil, Estonia, Finland and Morocco are just a few of the exciting places to which educators can travel. There are openings for administrators and teachers, alike, who qualify. The J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board is appointed by the President and selects participants. Interested U.S. educators must be a citizen, have a full-time position, be in at least the third year of full-time employment and be fluent in English. For more information please visit www.fulbrightexchanges.org. "Through experiences teachers continue to learn, and share what they have learned, throughout their lives. Broadening the borders of our education is a great way to internationally connect ourselves to a world that is becoming more interdependent by the day," Costa concluded.
06.25.2007	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Jim Costa will attend the Discovery shuttle launch in Cape Canaveral, Florida as part of the official Congressional delegation. Costa is a member of the House Science Committee and Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics. The launch will take place at 3:51pm EST. Congressman Costa is available for comment before and after the launch. To schedule an interview, call: Tracy Sherman 202-225-3341 #
06.25.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) and Congressman George Radanovich (CA-19) praised the inclusion of a provision that will benefit the Valley within the bipartisan Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2005 (HR 2864). The House passed its version and it will be reconciled by the Conference Committee in the near future. Costa and Radanovich issued the following statements in response to this action: Costa "The Valley Regional Water Plan will help ensure we have the water needed to sustain the Valley lifestyle, support regional economic growth and retain a world-class agricultural community. In addition, we will work to achieve a reliable high-quality urban water supply and protect and enhance our local environment. "The effort will include long-term planning for water supply, water quality, flood control and environmental restoration. By coming together and working together, the Water Plan will help the Valley confront and overcome future water challenges. Congressman Radanovich and I look forward to working with our colleagues Congressmen Cardoza and Nunes and state and local-elected officials to develop this program from the bottom up." Radanovich "Specifically, the report language authorizes an Army Corps of Engineers study for the development of the Valley Regional Water Plan. This is big news for the Valley and our quest to create a Regional Water Plan. With my colleague Representative Jim Costa, we will be hard at work on this crucial effort. Our people depend on their water for not only agriculture, the environment and daily use, but for jobs and economic growth as well. This authorization will help us develop a plan to secure water for future generations. "The language in the WRDA bill states that the study will include an assessment of water supply issues, Jim and I will be working to also include the issues of water quality, environmental restoration and flood control. In addition, we will seek to expand the number of counties to comprise Madera, Tulare, Merced, Stanislaus and San Joaquin counties. This is in addition to Fresno, Kings and Kern Counties, which are already included in the WRDA language creating the study." #
06.25.2007	Fresno, CA - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) announced that the United States Department of Education has named three Fresno County Schools, Sanger Unified, Firebaugh-Las Deltas Unified and Fresno Unified School District as recipients of the Alcohol Abuse Reduction Grants Program. Combined, the schools will receive just over $1 million. "As our communities grow so do the educational needs of low-income and rural areas; these funds help various organizations realize their goal of providing the best possible educational opportunities to their students," Congressman Costa said. The Grants to Reduce Alcohol Abuse Program provides resources to local educational agencies to develop and implement innovative and effective alcohol abuse prevention programs for secondary school students. The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration will provide technical assistance, disseminate program information and provide training to the grantees. This grant is awarded in year increments and it is anticipated that it will last for a total of three years. Sanger Unified School District will receive $306,831, Firebaugh-Las Deltas Unified School District will receive $319,496 and Fresno Unified School District will receive $487,946. "Through the use of these funds, schools will have the tools necessary to combat the many societal ills caused by underage alcohol abuse," concluded Congressman Costa.
06.25.2007	Fresno, CA - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) announced Fresno County as the recipient of five Department of Housing and Urban Development grants totaling over $13 million. Various cities in Fresno County will receive funds from the Community Development Block Grant, Emergency Shelter Grant, American Dream Downpayment Initiative, HOME program and Capital Fund Program. "As our communities grow so do housing needs and these funds help various people and organizations realize their goal of making housing options available to more community residents," Congressman Costa said. Fresno County will receive just under $8 million from the Community Development Block Grant, American Dream Downpayment Initiative, Emergency Shelter Grant and HOME program combined. In addition, the Housing Authority of Fresno City and County will receive approximately $4.5 million from the Capital Fund which assists housing authorities in modernization, development, financing and management improvements. The city of Firebaugh is a recipient of the Community Development Block Grant and will receive $706,937 to improve housing and economic opportunities in urban areas. "Through the use of these funds Fresno County cities and agencies will have the ability to build and maintain various housing opportunities for rural and urban areas alike," concluded Congressman Costa. For more information please contact my Fresno District Office at 559-495-1620.
06.25.2007	Fresno, CA - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) announced Kern County as the recipient of five Department of Housing and Urban Development grants totaling near $13.6 million. Various cities in Kern County will receive funds from the Community Development Block Grant, Emergency Shelter Grant, American Dream Downpayment Initiative, HOME program and Capital Fund Program. "As our communities grow so do housing needs and these funds help various people and organizations realize their goal of making housing options available to more community residents," Congressman Costa said. Kern County will receive a total of $8.6 million from the Community Development Block Grant, American Dream Downpayment Initiative, Emergency Shelter Grant and HOME program with the city of Bakersfield receiving $5.6 million. In addition, the Housing Authority of Kern County will receive just under $2 million from the Capital Fund which assists housing authorities in modernization, development, financing and management improvements. Delano and Wasco are recipients of the Community Development Block Grant and will each receive $1,500,000 to improve housing and economic opportunities in urban areas. "Through the use of these funds Kern County cities and agencies will have the ability to build and maintain various housing opportunities for rural and urban areas alike," concluded Congressman Costa. For more information please contact my Fresno District Office at 559-495-1620.
06.25.2007	Fresno, CA - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) announced Kings County as the recipient of two Department of Housing and Urban Development grants totaling near $5.6 million. Various cities in Kings County will receive funds from the Community Development Block Grant and Capital Fund Program. "As our communities grow so do housing needs and these funds help various people and organizations realize their goal of making housing options available to more community residents," Congressman Costa said. The cities of Avenal, Corcoran and Lemoore are recipients of the Community Development Block Grant and will receive $3,500,000 to improve housing and economic opportunities. The County of Kings will receive just under $1,500,000 from the same grant and these funds will be used for housing rehabilitation and daycare facilities. In addition, the Housing Authority of Kings County will receive approximately $670,792 from the Capital Fund which assists housing authorities in modernization, development, financing and management improvements. "Through the use of these funds Kings County cities and agencies will have the ability to build and maintain various housing opportunities for rural and urban areas alike," concluded Congressman Costa. For more information please contact my Fresno District Office at 559-495-1620.
06.25.2007	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Jim Costa released the following statement regarding his vote on H.R. 3045, "Dominican Republic-Central America-United States Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act" (CAFTA): "I fully support global commerce. As a third-generation family farmer, I truly understand the benefit of opening the world to the abundance of U.S. products. "Of the producers in the Central Valley, some will win and some will lose with CAFTA. In Washington, I vote on behalf of the Central Valley's best interest to ensure a free and fair trade policy. Unfortunately, regardless of the diligent work and excellent intentions of our trade negotiators, the trade agreements we have entered into are not serving America well, especially not American agriculture. The increasing trade deficit over the last ten years serves as proof. "The evidence of our trade failures is undeniable. Over the last dozen years, the U.S. trade deficit has grown exponentially from a deficit of $38 billion in 1992 to $668 billion last year. This is an incredible increase of more than $630 billion in twelve years, or more than 1700 percent! This year, in spite of the Trade Promotion Authority enjoyed by the President and the plethora of agreements brought before Congress, America's trade deficit is the largest it has been in nearly fifty years. "Last year, many of the ships traveling from Asia to the West Coast ports traveled back across the Pacific empty. This is a tragic illustration of a trade policy that is not working. Our current agreements give us little or no ability to leverage our strengths as a trading partner. "Do we truly need another agreement when Japan, one of our most important trading partners, continues to refuse entry of American beef, which is one of our safest and highest quality food products? "For the sake of the American agricultural economy, and other American industries, we must do better. We must seriously evaluate the way in which we conduct trade, beginning with the agreements we negotiate. We must look at what is working and, more importantly, what is not working. "Ten years ago, I supported NAFTA. But, with the current state of our trade situation and the weakness and of our current agreements, I cannot find any sense in supporting another trade agreement that perpetuates this sort of ineffective policy. "I am reminded of a familiar quote attributed to Albert Einstein that illustrates my hesitation about CAFTA. "Insanity is doing the same thing over and over and expecting different results." In light of our trade deficits, how can we approve another agreement and expect different, better results for the American farmer? "In conclusion, my vote today against CAFTA is a vote of protest and a vote of dissatisfaction. My "no" vote today is a message on behalf of American agriculture, American businesses and American workers to the Administration and my colleagues in Congress, that we absolutely must develop a new trade strategy, a strategy that over time reverses our trade deficit. "This new trade strategy must be straight with the American public. It must define who over the next 10, or 20, or 30 years will be the winners and losers. In order, for America to remain economically strong in the 21st Century, we must have a plan to address the transitions and shifts in our domestic economy. "As participants in the 21st Century economy, which Thomas Friedman refers to as "the new flat earth," American workers and business owners deserve to know what their chances are in the global economy. They need to know who among them will be the winners and losers. "And, throughout that deliberation, American agriculture must have a seat at the table," concluded Costa. ###
06.25.2007	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Jim Costa announced that California's 20th Congressional District will receive funding from H.R. 3, "The Transportation Equity Act." Kings County will receive $2.4 million to widen Route 198 between State Route 99 to State Route 43. "This funding is the first step in a comprehensive local, state and federal effort to complete transportation projects in Kings County. However, transportation needs in the Valley greatly exceed what federal money alone can provide. Without continued state and local funding, these projects might not be able to be completed," Costa stated. In addition to the project mentioned above, "The Transportation Equity Act" includes language to change Highway 99 to interstate status. "By obtaining interstate status, Highway 99 will have access to increased federal funding, which will help widen and repair Highway 99. This is great news for the Central Valley as Highway 99 is the most heavily traveled highway west of the Mississippi River. This status change will lead to increased funding which will improve opportunities to address congestion on this important transportation artery in the Central Valley," Costa concluded. #
06.25.2007	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Jim Costa announced that California's 20th Congressional District will receive funding from H.R. 3, "The Transportation Equity Act." Fresno County will receive $7.6 million for Freeway 180 improvements from Hughes/West Avenue to Brawley. In addition, Fresno County Council of Governments (COG) will receive $5.3 million for rehabilitation, repair and/or reconstruction of deficient two-lane roads that connect to Interstate 5, State Route 180, State Route 41 and State Route 99 countywide. "This funding is the first step in a comprehensive local, state and federal effort to complete transportation projects in Fresno County. However, transportation needs in the Valley greatly exceed what federal money alone can provide. Without continued state and local funding, these projects might not be able to be completed," Costa stated. In addition to the projects mentioned above, "The Transportation Equity Act" includes language to change Highway 99 to interstate status. "By obtaining interstate status, Highway 99 will have access to increased federal funding, which will help widen and repair Highway 99. This is great news for the Central Valley as Highway 99 is the most heavily traveled highway west of the Mississippi River. This status change will lead to increased funding which will improve opportunities to address congestion on this important transportation artery in the Central Valley," Costa concluded. #
06.25.2007	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Jim Costa announced that California's 20th Congressional District will receive over $15 million in funding from H.R. 3, The Transportation Equity Act Conference Report. Fresno County will receive $7.6 million for Freeway 180 improvements from Hughes/West Avenue to Brawley and $5.3 million for rehabilitation, repair and/or reconstruction of deficient two-lane roads that connect to Interstate 5, State Route 180, State Route 41, and State Route 99 countywide. 3. $2.4 million to widen Route 198 between State Route 99 to State Route 43 in Kings County, CA. "This funding is the first step in a comprehensive local, state and federal effort to complete transportation projects in the Fresno County. However, transportation needs in the Valley greatly exceed what federal money alone can provide. Without continued state and local funding, these projects might not be able to be completed," Costa stated. In addition to the projects mentioned above, The Transportation Equity Act includes language to change Highway 99 to interstate status. "By obtaining interstate status, Highway 99 will have access to increased possible federal funding, which will help widen and repair Highway 99. This is great news for the Central Valley as Highway 99 is the most heavily traveled highway west of the Mississippi River. This status change will lead to increased funding which will decrease congestion on this important transportation artery in the Central Valley," Costa concluded.
06.25.2007	Fresno, CA - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) announced the City of Bakersfield as the recipient of an Economic Development Initiative grant from the Department of Housing and Urban Development in the amount of $277,750. "Maintaining a safe and pleasant atmosphere in which Bakersfield residents can reside is an important goal and these funds will aid in the city's attempt to achieve such a goal," Congressman Costa said. Economic Development Initiative funds generally are used for property acquisition; housing rehabilitation; economic development activities; acquisition, construction, reconstruction or installation of public facilities; public works and other site improvements. The city of Bakersfield has designated the grant for improvement of sidewalks, street furniture and facades. "Enhancing the image of a city is a key factor in the effort to promote the interests of its residents and Bakersfield community members will benefit from the proposed projects," concluded Congressman Costa. #
06.25.2007	Congressman Jim Costa will be available on Saturday, July 30, 2005 for comment on the recently passed Transportation Bill that provided funding for Highway 99. When: Saturday, July 30, 2005 Time: 1:30 pm Place: Patio In front of China Bistro and Kebab Time Restaurants Pavilion West Shopping Center South West Corner of Bullard Avenue and West Avenue For More Information Contact: Kherstin Khan: 559-281-2381 #
06.25.2007	Washington DC - Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) has issued the following statement on Representative Richard Pombo's introduction of the "Threatened and Endangered Species Recovery Act of 2005." "I appreciate the efforts that Chairman Pombo and my colleagues in the Resources Committee are undertaking to draft legislation to reform the Endangered Species Act. "While I was in the California Legislature, I led an effort to provide the first meaningful reform as it related to the incidental and accidental taking in agriculture. "It is my hope that we can work together in a bipartisan fashion to provide meaningful reform that is long overdue at the federal level."
06.25.2007	Fresno, CA - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) announced public broadcasting funds awarded to Kern County from the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. More than $8.8 million will be awarded to radio stations across the United States to help with the transition to Digital Services. "Digital technology greatly enhances radio stations' ability to provide services to the public," Congressman Costa said. KPRX-FM in Bakersfield is one of four radio stations in California that will be receiving part of the awarded funds. The grant is allocated from monies provided by Congress, state governments and local stations. "The funds offered will aid many radio stations in their switch from analog to digital transmission," Costa concluded. #
06.25.2007	Fresno, CA - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) announced that Fresno County will receive approximately $560,000 from the United States Departments of Justice and Health and Human Services. "These funds play an integral role in the county's ability to maintain a safe environment in which residents can thrive," Congressman Costa said. The Fresno County Sheriff Department will receive $110,000 for the DNA Capacity Enhancement and Forensic Casework DNA Backlog Reduction programs. A portion of these funds, from the US Department of Justice, will be used to improve laboratory infrastructure and analysis capacity which will allow the Sheriff's Department to process DNA samples efficiently and cost effectively. The remainder will be used to analyze backlogged forensic DNA casework. Community Regional Medical Center in Fresno will receive approximately $450,000 from the Health Resources and Services Administration, of the Department of Health and Human Services. The grant money allocated under the Health Care and Other Facilities Program will be used to improve facilities and purchase equipment for an outpatient care clinic at Community Regional Medical Center. "Realizing the full potential of DNA and medical technology is important in our efforts to provide the best technologies possible for our communities," Costa concluded.
06.25.2007	Fresno, CA - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) announced that Kern County will receive approximately $310,000 from the United States Departments of Justice and Health and Human Services. "These funds play an integral role in the county's ability to maintain a safe environment in which residents can thrive," Congressman Costa said. The Kern County District Attorney will receive $71,352 for the DNA Capacity Enhancement program. These funds will be used to improve laboratory infrastructure and analysis capacity, which will allow the District Attorney's office to process DNA samples efficiently and cost effectively. Kern Medical Center in Bakersfield will receive approximately $245,516 from the Health Resources and Services Administration, of the Department of Health and Human Services. The grant money allocated under the Health Care and Other Facilities Program will be used to purchase new equipment for Kern Medical Center. "Realizing the full potential of DNA and medical technology is important in our efforts to provide the best technologies possible for our communities," Costa concluded. #
06.25.2007	Congressman Jim Costa and Congressman Dennis Cardoza to Hold Joint Press Conference on Hurricane Budget Accountability and Reform U.S. Congressmen Cardoza and Costa call for Congress and the President to put in place common sense budget reform to pay for Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and to secure our nation's future: Date: Monday, September 26, 2005 Time: 10:00 am Location: Fresno Air Terminal For Information Contact Kherstin Khan: 559-495-1620 #
06.25.2007	Four Point Plan for Budget Reform and Accountability U.S. Congressmen Cardoza and Costa call for Congress and the President to put in place common sense budget reforms to pay for Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and to secure our nation's financial future: Reform the Faulty Medicare Prescription Drug Plan Congress can rewrite the President's deeply flawed Medicare Prescription Drug law - preserving the good aspects such as benefits for low-income seniors, the drug discount cards that seniors have already received, and the benefits for safety net and rural hospitals - and save several hundred billion dollars in the next ten years. Savings: $20 billion in FY05; $32.8 billion in FY06, $724 billion in FY06-15 Place a Moratorium on Any New Tax Cuts The 2005 Budget Resolution included $106 billion in new deficit-financed tax cuts over the next five years, including $70 billion to be enacted under special "fast-track" reconciliation procedures. Savings: At least $70 billion Issue "Katrina" and "Rita" Bonds We are very grateful for the outpouring of charitable gifts to the Gulf Coast Region. Investors should also participate by being able to purchase "Katrina" and "Rita" bonds - US Treasury bonds to be sold over the next year to American citizens and companies. These bonds would be sold only to US buyers and would enable us to reduce our growing dependence on foreign capital to fund our rebuilding efforts Force Government to be Accountable for Runaway Deficits Our nation is currently facing a fiscal catastrophe that could have been avoided. The broken budget process has led to deficits of historic proportions, and these debts have left our nation ill-prepared to absorb the costs of post-Katrina and Rita reconstruction. To get our nation back on track, we call for the following: A bipartisan budget summit between the President and Congress. Immediate enactment of the Blue Dog budget process reform plan, which includes such sensible measures as restoration of Pay-As-You-Go or PAYGO limits so that any new spending must be paid for by cuts in other programs or by new revenues, and a rainy-day fund to prepare for future contingencies.
06.25.2007	In Fresno Press Conference, Central Valley Lawmakers Express Concern Over Waste From Reconstruction Effort and Ballooning Deficits Fresno, CA - Congressmen Jim Costa (D-Fresno) and Dennis Cardoza (D-Merced) today called for greater accountability for federal dollars spent on Gulf Coast recovery and reconstruction as well as a renewed focus on fiscal responsibility in light of the current crisis. In addition, Costa and Cardoza supported the issuance of "Katrina" and "Rita" bonds, which would reduce the level of U.S. borrowing from foreign countries to pay for this unprecedented recovery effort. Costa: "It is extremely difficult to watch our fellow citizens suffer through these disasters. While it is our responsibility to explore all potential avenues for aid to the many people who are in need; it is also our duty to ensure the funds raised are used to provide relief in an appropriate manner." "Through implementation of Katrina and Rita Bonds, reform of the Medicare prescription drug plan and placement of a moratorium on tax cuts we can assure fiscal accountability in relief funding. It is our obligation to provide for our future generations while we responsibly deal with today's crises." Cardoza: "My thoughts and prayers go out to everyone who is suffering due to these natural disasters. Congressman Costa and I are both committed to providing all resources needed to aid victims and to rebuild shattered communities. We must ensure that these funds go to the communities devastated by these Hurricanes - not to line the pockets of unscrupulous contractors hoping to benefit from tragedy. " "This catastrophe will cost the federal government hundreds of billions of dollars. Due to the current fiscal crisis, we are now forced to borrow staggering sums of money. This will mean exploding deficits and soaring debt. It is time to finally implement long-overdue common-sense budget reforms. In addition - by issuing ‘Katrina' and ‘Rita' bonds - to be sold only to Americans - the U.S. can reduce its dependence on borrowing from China and Saudi Arabia to fund the Gulf Coast recovery effort." Congressmen Costa and Cardoza Proposals: Issue "Katrina" and "Rita" Bonds The outpouring of charitable donations in response to Katrina was extraordinary. American investors should also participate by being able to purchase "Katrina" and "Rita" bonds - US Treasury bonds to be sold over the next year to American citizens and companies. These bonds would be sold only to US buyers and would enable us to reduce our growing dependence on foreign capital to fund our rebuilding efforts Reform the Faulty Medicare Prescription Drug Plan Congress can rewrite the President's deeply flawed Medicare Prescription Drug law - preserving the good aspects such as benefits for low-income seniors, the drug discount cards that seniors have already received, and the benefits for safety net and rural hospitals - and save several hundred billion dollars in the next ten years. Savings: $20 billion in FY05; $32.8 billion in FY06, $724 billion in FY06-15 Force Government to be Accountable for Runaway Deficits Our nation is currently facing a fiscal catastrophe that could have been avoided. The broken budget process has led to deficits of historic proportions, and these debts have left our nation ill-prepared to absorb the costs of post-Katrina and Rita reconstruction. To get our nation back on track, we call for the following: A bipartisan budget summit between the President and Congress. Immediate enactment of the Blue Dog budget process reform plan, which includes such sensible measures as restoration of Pay-As-You-Go or PAYGO limits so that any new spending must be paid for by cuts in other programs or by new revenues, and a rainy-day fund to prepare for future contingencies. ###
06.25.2007	WASHINGTON D.C. - In the wake of mounting national debt, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) joined the Blue Dog Coalition today in asking President Bush to call an emergency bipartisan budget summit regarding the nation's added fiscal burden in the wake of Gulf Region reconstruction efforts. Thirty-one Blue Dogs - moderate and conservative Democrats in the House of Representatives - joined Congressman Costa in signing the letter to President Bush. Costa has long expressed tremendous concern over mounting U.S. debt and is particularly troubled by our growing dependence on foreign governments to finance our debt. Earlier this year, Congressman Costa and the Blue Dogs offered a 12 Step Plan that would cure our nation's addiction to deficit spending that required, among other things, all federal agencies pass clean audits, a balanced budget, and the setting aside of a rainy day fund to be used in the event of a natural disaster. "Today, our nation's long term fiscal security is growing even bleaker with the addition of billions of dollars in emergency supplemental funds needed to rebuild the Gulf Region," writes the Blue Dog Coalition. "As such, members of the Blue Dog Coalition urge you to immediately call for an emergency bipartisan budget summit to get our nation's fiscal house in order." Costa stated, "There is ample evidence that the current federal budget system is not working. The tragedies of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita only emphasize its critical condition. The Blue Dogs have sound and reasonable suggestions to help our nation get back on a strong fiscal footing. I certainly hope the President will be open-minded enough to listen to these worthwhile suggestions or any other suggestions that will restore fiscal sanity." The thirty-two Blue Dogs signing the letter include: Joe Baca (CA), John Barrow (GA), Marion Berry (AR), Sanford Bishop (GA), Dan Boren (OK), Allen Boyd (FL), Dennis Cardoza (CA), Ed Case (HI), Ben Chandler (KY), Jim Cooper (TN), Jim Costa (CA), Bud Cramer (AL), Lincoln Davis (TN), Harold Ford (TN), Jane Harman (CA), Stephanie Herseth (SD), Tim Holden (PA), Steve Israel (NY), Jim Matheson (UT), Mike McIntyre (NC), Mike Michaud (ME), Dennis Moore (KS), Collin Peterson (MN), Earl Pomeroy (ND), Mike Ross (AR), John Salazar (CO), Loretta Sanchez (CA), Adam Schiff (CA), David Scott (GA), John Tanner (TN), Gene Taylor (MS), Mike Thompson (CA). The Blue Dogs letter adds that the Coalition, "believes that the United States should not be forced to borrow funds from foreign nations to finance our reconstruction efforts. We owe it to the American people to act responsibly by sitting down together and devising a serious plan to keep America from going even deeper into debt." ###
06.25.2007	Congressman Jim Costa will speak on campus at the Lemoore High School Cafeteria on Wednesday, October 12th at 9am. During his visit he will talk to the Junior ROTC class and any interested juniors and seniors about attending Military Service Academies. Also on hand will also be an Air Force liaison and staff from Congressman Costa's office to answer any additional questions students may have about the application process. When: Wednesday, October 12, 2005 Time: 9:00-9:30 am Place: Lemoore High School Cafeteria 101 E. Bush Street Lemoore, CA 93245 For More Information Contact: Kherstin Khan: 559-495-1620
06.25.2007	Congressman Jim Costa will spend the day in Kern County on Friday, October 14, 2005. Representative Costa will be at the Veteran's Services Department to present well-deserved and long awaited for Congressional Medals to Mr. Ronnie Watson of Bakersfield, California. Following the ceremony Representative Costa will be available to comment about the variety of happenings in Congress as they relate to the 20th Congressional District; such as the Avian Flu Epidemic. When: Friday, October 14, 2005 Time: 2:45-3:45 pm Place: Conference Room Veteran's Services Department 1120 Golden State Avenue Bakersfield, CA 93301 For More Information Contact: Kherstin Khan: 559-495-1620
06.25.2007	Congressman Jim Costa will speak at the First Annual Multi Cultural Youth Conference on Friday, October 14, 2005 in Fresno, California. The conference organizers hope to foster racial and ethnic sensitivity among students and will host a variety of workshops throughout the day. Following his remarks, Representative Costa will be available for comment on the many things happening in Congress as they relate to the 20th Congressional District, such as the Avian Flu Epidemic and precautionary steps being taken to prevent the catastrophic effects of natural disasters. When: Friday, October 14, 2005 Time: 9:30 am Place: Ernest E. Valdez Exhibit Hall 848 ‘M' Street Fresno, CA 93721 For More Information Contact: Kherstin Khan: 559-495-1620 #
06.25.2007	FRESNO, CA (October 21, 2005) - Today, the City of Fresno and Amtrak agreed to lease terms that will allow the long-awaited opening of the restored historic Santa Fe Depot to open to the public. Congressman Costa helped locate an alternative source of funding through the California Transportation Commission to mitigate the $607,000 funding shortfall that held up the original opening. "Our combined efforts of City of Fresno, the California Department of Transportation and Amtrak ensured that this could happen. I would like to thank Mayor Autry, President David Gunn of Amtrak, and the City of Fresno for keeping the faith and staying at the task. We look forward to the opening of the station in the next several weeks," Costa stated. "It is important that Fresno continues to flourish as a stop on the Amtrak line," President of Amtrak, David Gunn said. "I would like to thank Gil Mallory and his staff for having worked hard to ensure that the relationship between Amtrak, the City of Fresno and the California Transportation Commission continue to be a meaningful one for the community." The lease agreement was fully executed this morning, and it is anticipated that Amtrak will complete the relocation to the Depot by the second week of November.
06.25.2007	Four valley Congressman will be at California State University, Fresno on Monday, October 24th to host the first meeting for the purpose of developing a long term Regional Water Plan for seven Valley counties. This water plan will contain solutions regarding water supply, water quality, flood control and enactment of environmental restoration measures. Representatives Dennis Cardoza, Jim Costa, Devin Nunes and George Radanovich will each give opening remarks. The San Joaquin Valley Regional Water planning effort will bring together a diverse group of experts from various interest groups throughout the Valley who are willing to work toward building a sustainable water plan for the future. The Congressmen will be available for comment in the Lobby of the University Business Center, at 10:00 am. When: Monday, October 24, 2005 Time: 10:00 am Place: Lobby University Business Center California State University, Fresno For More Information Contact: Kherstin Khan: 559-495-1620 #
06.25.2007	FRESNO, CA - In the effort to provide people with a passport to homeownership Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) will host his "First Time Homebuyer Fair" on Saturday, October 29, 2005. The event will run from 10:00 am to 3:00 pm at the Sunnyside High School Cafeteria located at 1019 S. Peach Avenue in Fresno. "Owning a home is, unfortunately, a dream for too many families who wish to provide a stable and comfortable environment within which they can thrive, and for too many families this dream does not become a reality," Costa stated. Costa pointed out that recent home buying trends in the area indicate that prices have continued to rise while incomes have stayed the same. According to a recent study by the California Coalition for Rural Housing, 15 percent of all homeowners pay 50 percent of their income toward housing; this number increases to 80 percent for low income families and 61 percent for very low income families. He noted that the problems caused by high housing costs have a trickle effect on the rest of the community in various ways. "If a family is budgeting 80 percent of their income to live in a home then only 20 percent remains for food, clothing, school and medical purposes," the Fresno lawmaker noted. "California is home to many people and the population continues to grow, especially in the Central Valley. It is for this reason we take steps to ensure residents have the necessary tools to navigate a path toward homeownership," Congressman Costa added. Currently, California ranks 48th among the 50 states in the rate of homeownership, with the national average at 67.9 percent and the California average at 58 percent In a dedicated effort to reverse the potential social and economic effects of the lack of affordable housing, Congressman Costa will host the first time homebuyers fair. This event will introduce area residents to housing agencies, loan officers, realtors and banks, which will be on-site conducting mini-workshops, in English, Spanish and Hmong, to the public about the steps necessary to become a homeowner. "Many people have come together to make this homebuyer fair occur and through collaboration with all of those involved we will continue to assist folks in the community in making their dream of homeownership a reality," Costa said. "After all homeownership in our country is not only creating a broad middle class, but homeownership is, when we think about it, part and parcel of the ‘American Dream'."
06.25.2007	FRESNO - Today Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) sent a letter to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice urging the State Department to work expeditiously toward the evacuation of American Citizens stranded in Cancun, Mexico after the tragedies brought on by Hurricane Wilma. Following is the text of the letter: Dr. Condoleezza Rice Secretary U.S. Department of State 2201 C Street, NW Washington, DC 20520 Dear Dr. Rice: I am writing to request an immediate response on the U.S. Department of State (DOS) efforts to evacuate American Citizens left stranded in Cancun, Mexico after the devastating effects of Hurricane Wilma. Hurricane Wilma and its potential devastating impact were highly predictable. While the U.S. government was not responsible for preparing evacuation and emergency plans for areas outside of our borders, we do bear some responsibility for providing American citizens with emergency relief and evacuation assistance after a disaster occurs. American tourists still stranded on Cancun deserve to have adequate food, water, and medical care, in addition to assurances that they will be evacuated in a timely fashion. It is my understanding, based on information I have received from the Department of State Congressional Desk, Vice Consul William E. Herzog at the Consulate in Merida and the DOS Task Force assisting US citizens in Mexico (1-888-407-4747), that there was a total lack of preparation and now lack of cooperation and willingness by the Mexican Government in allowing people to get to the airport for evacuation. I believe our own government bares responsibility for getting them home safely. In my 20th Congressional District in California, I have six constituents in shelters in Cancun waiting to return to the United States, two at the Moon Palace Shelter and four at the Radisson Hotel. It is my understanding that the Mexican Government is not allowing my constituents out of the shelter to travel to the Cancun Airport without proper documentation showing they have a flight leaving the Cancun Airport. This is an impossible request given the lack of access to obtain this documentation. It is my understanding that American tour groups in Cancun are getting priority in evacuating over those citizens traveling on their own, such as my constituents. It is also my understanding, contrary to DOS reports, that my constituents and other U.S. citizens located at the Radisson Shelter in Cancun do not have access to water, food and appropriate medical assistance. We have the capabilities to fly American citizens out of harm's way and I feel we need to act right now. Please advise me on what steps the U.S. Department of State is taking to bring Americans home from Cancun immediately and what steps are being taken in the meantime to assure all stranded Americans in Cancun have the appropriate water, food and medical assistance in their shelters. I urge you to take immediate action to return safely and as soon as possible the constituents in my district and all other Americans left stranded in Cancun. Sincerely, JIM COSTA Member of Congress JC/ksg
06.25.2007	FRESNO, CA - Calling it "a common sense" guideline for cutting and spending in the federal budget, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) today (November 9, 2005) announced his support for a House bill that he said, "makes a strong statement against wasteful and inefficient federal spending." Costa is supporting the Corporate Entitlement Reform Act of 2005, which was introduced this week to identify various corporate entitlements, such as direct grants, subsidies and tax breaks that fail to create a fiscally sound budget as it relates to cutting taxes and spending money. The legislation calls on Congress to create a nine-member, bipartisan Commission to review existing corporate entitlements and recommend to Congress a minimum of $50 billion in savings over ten years. "As a new Member of Congress, I am struck by the nonsensical ability of our government to spend money we do not have during a time of war, record deficits and epic international borrowing, while at the same time those in charge insist on tax cuts," Congressman Costa stated. Costa joins various other Members of Congress, including those who are a part of the Blue Dog Coalition, in offering his support what he called, "a rational approach to maintaining fiscal responsibility." "It is our responsibility to properly manage our budget and plan for long term balance. The state of affairs in which we currently find ourselves does not lend itself well to cutting taxes," Costa concluded. "That math simply does not equal sound fiscal management. This bill, however, makes a strong statement against wasteful and inefficient spending."
06.25.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) today (Wednesday, Nov. 9) denounced the Amtrak Board firing of David Gunn, the train systems highly successful president as "outrageous." Costa described Gunn's dismissal as, "a sad day for Amtrak." The Fresno lawmaker went on to say, "Firing David Gunn is outrageous; I simply don't understand the Amtrak Board's values. Members of this Administration that are under investigation or proven incompetent, such as our recent FEMA Director, are kept on the payroll, while quality administrators are fired for doing a good job. This is a distressing day for the future of our nation's intercity rail program, which has experienced real reform under Mr. Gunn's leadership." Costa pointed out that California benefits highly from Amtrak. He said Gunn has been very helpful to Fresno and other Valley communities served by Amtrak. "Just recently, he worked closely with my office and Mayor Autry to help re-open the historic Santa Fe Depot," Costa noted. He added that 9.3 million passengers ride on Amtrak lines in California alone; and three of Amtrak's top national corridors are located in California: the Pacific Surfliner, the Capitol Corridor, and the San Joaquins, which services Fresno. "Mr. Gunn leaves Amtrak after three years with a string of accomplishments and a highly successful track record. Amtrak ridership rose during his tenure. Last year, 25 million passengers rode Amtrak trains, a 4.3% increase over the prior year-which was the previous passenger record for Amtrak service. Mr. Gunn streamlined the employee payroll while increasing revenues and decreasing expenses. He also led a highly successful capital investment campaign that strengthened and improved Amtrak's ability to provide a high level of service. Finally, he streamlined Amtrak's financial accountability system," Costa declared. The Board's decision to fire Mr. Gunn is the Bush Administration's first step to dismantle Amtrak service and force states to fend for themselves. "After 9-11, when this nation witnessed firsthand the results of a grounded air fleet, we relied on rail service more than ever," Costa said. "A 21st Century Transportation system needs rail service to be effective, but this Administration has a vision of transportation that is locked in the 19th Century. Finally, I am concerned that the actions of the Board may be illegal, as they were conducted without a quorum present and minutes of this meeting have not been made available to the public. They must be held accountable to the Congress and to the American people." # # #
06.25.2007	FRESNO, CA - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) is seeking local students interested in attending our Nation's prestigious military academies. Applications are available from Representative Costa's District offices in Fresno and Bakersfield to interested students who live in the 20th Congressional District, which is comprised of parts of Fresno County, Kern County and all of Kings County. The deadline for submission is Monday, December 19, 2005. "It is an honor to serve in our Nation's military and these service academies instill in students great discipline and leadership abilities that will be useful in any career path students may choose," Costa stated. To apply for a nomination potential appointees must complete an application, which can be obtained from Congressman Costa's office, and those qualified will be scheduled for an interview with Representative Costa's academy selection committee. This committee is composed of community leaders in the 20th Congressional District. They will seek out a well rounded individual that meets academic qualifications, sets a standard for community involvement and has leadership abilities. Those who would like more information can contact Kelly Gill, Director of Constituent Services, in Congressman Costa's Fresno District Office, located at 855 ‘M' Street, Fresno, CA 93721; or they may also call the office at 559-495-1620. #
06.25.2007	FRESNO, CA - Congressmen Jim Costa (D-Fresno) is among a bipartisan group of twenty-two California Members of the House of Representatives who have voiced their support for adequate funding of Veterans Homes. The group includes Valley legislators, Dennis Cardoza (D-Merced), George Radanovich (R-Mariposa) and Bill Thomas (R-Bakersfield). Veterans' homes, Congressman Costa stated, "provide a critical safety net for the well being of those who served our country." The Members of Congress signed on to a letter sent to the ranking members of the Senate Subcommittee on Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs this week urging their prompt attention to the insufficient funding of State Extended Care Facilities for Veterans. The Fiscal Year 2006 Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act should include the Senate's funding level of $104 million for the State Extended Care Facilities Grant Program, Costa and the other lawmakers noted in their letter. In California, veterans are forced to endure a two-year waiting list to join one of the state's three veterans' homes in Yountville, Chula Vista and Barstow. Any reduction to funding or restrictions on the use of funds for new projects will delay the construction of the proposed new homes being built in Fresno, Lancaster, Los Angeles, Redding and Ventura County. "It is our responsibility to provide for our nation's Veterans in their time of need; the sad truth is they sometimes find themselves without basic healthcare and housing," Costa said. The grant program being promoted by the lawmakers provides funds to construct and maintain extended care facilities through a 65 percent to 35 percent federal-state match. "The Department of Veterans Affairs reports that California has the greatest need for additional veterans' homes and the state is committed to working with the federal government to build new facilities, so we must do our part on the Federal level to ensure this funding does not fall by the wayside," Costa concluded.
06.25.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) called today (Tuesday, Nov.15) for greater Congressional oversight of decisions made by Amtrak Board of Directors. In testimony before the Railroads Subcommittee of the House Transportation Committee, Costa said, "In reality the Administration wants to emasculate and then kill Amtrak, putting another unfunded mandate on the back of any state that decides to continue an inter-city rail system." He added, "A 21st Century transportation systems needs rail service to be effective, but this Administration has a vision of transportation that is locked in the 19th Century." Costa's testimony was made at hearing called to examine the firing last week of Amtrak president David Gunn. Three of the five best traveled Amtrak routes are in California, Costa pointed out. The Pacific Surfliner, serving the Southern California coast is the second most traveled route in Amtrak's system; the Capitols, which run from San Jose to Sacramento is number three, and the San Joaquin's, running from Bakersfield to Sacramento, rank number five. The Valley lawmaker criticized the Amtrak board's secret meetings and lack of published minutes, as well as the very makeup of the Board itself. He noted that two of the four Board members were recess appointments and the Board has not had its complete compliment of seven members for three years. Costa has been a long time advocate for building up the passenger train system in California. His efforts have led to an increase in the number of daily Amtrak trains running throughout the state, along with the refurbishment of passenger terminals in the San Joaquin Valley. He is also the author of the High Speed Rail construction bond measure scheduled for a vote in November 2006. # # #
06.25.2007	Today, Agriculture Committee Ranking Democrat Congressman Collin C. Peterson (MN-7) and Agriculture Committee Member Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) introduced a bill that would extend the 2002 Farm Bill to provide certainty to farmers and to allow U.S. negotiators to focus on the ongoing Doha Development Round of World Trade Organization negotiations. "At a time when American farmers continue to face uncertainty with record high energy and input costs, natural disasters, low prices for some commodities and continued cuts to farm programs, this bill assures that they can count on the Farm Bill to continue in its current form at least until we see what the Doha Round could mean for American agriculture," Congressman Peterson said. The Peterson-Costa bill extends the 2002 Farm Bill for one year. That would extend the Farm Bill's commodity title through crop year 2008 and would extend the remaining titles through either fiscal year or calendar year 2008, depending on their current expiration date. If the President does not submit implementing legislation based on the outcome of the Doha Round by January 15, 2008, there would be an additional one year extension. "While pursuing free trade is critical to U.S. Agriculture, it also must be fair trade. An extension of the farm bill will both encourage our global trading partners to work toward a level playing field and give us time to analyze the outcome of the Doha Round before rewriting our own farm policy," Congressman Costa said. The extension will provide an incentive for U.S trade negotiators to bring back the very best deal possible for American agriculture from those trade talks. It would ensure that the U.S. negotiators do not have to rush through the negotiating process in order to deliver a trade pact to Congress before a new Farm Bill is written. "Extending the 2002 Farm Bill programs will allow us to write the next Farm Bill with a full understanding of the international trade picture to be sure that we are providing the best possible support to American agriculture," Congressman Peterson said. Joining Congressmen Peterson and Costa as original co-sponsors on this bill are Representatives John Salazar (CO-3), Tim Holden (PA-17), G.K. Butterfield (NC-1), Bob Etheridge (NC-2), Stephanie Herseth (SD-AL), Joe Baca (CA-43), David Scott (GA-13), Mike McIntyre (NC-7), Lincoln Davis (TN-4), Earl Pomeroy (ND-AL), Charlie Melancon (LA-3); Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Jim Marshall (GA-3), John Barrow (GA-12), Leonard Boswell (IA-3).
06.25.2007	Washington, DC - Calling it a step in the right direction to "Rid our great Valley of this devastating drug" Congressman Jim Costa urged passage of HR 3889; The Methamphetamine Epidemic Elimination Act scheduled for a vote today (?). The pending legislation has in it all the qualities that will provide law enforcement agencies with the tools necessary to fight this drug problem. "By limiting access to cold medication, increasing penalties and funding law enforcement this bill gives local and state officials the resources to dismantle meth in our communities," Costa stated. Costa pointed out that methamphetamines are California's largest drug threat and the Valley suffers one of the highest rates of production and use. Local agencies have seized over 13,500 pounds of meth in the last three years. "These rates are alarming," the Fresno lawmaker noted, "and now is the time for federal, state and local officials to work together for a range of solutions. As a California legislator Costa authored a law raising penalties for trafficking, manufacturing and sale of meth to the same level as heroin and cocaine.
06.25.2007	FRESNO - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) has appointed Bakersfield resident, Yolanda Prado, as a delegate to the White House Conference on Aging. Ms. Prado will represent the 20th Congressional District at the conference in Washington, DC that is set to begin on Saturday, December 10, 2005. This once-a-decade event is designed to bring individuals from various backgrounds together in the effort to promote wellness, dignity, independence and economic security for older Americans. Based on the outcome of discussions during the conference recommendations will be made to the White House and Congress on aging policy. "Ms. Prado, a senior health advocate, has much experience in the area and will have the ability to voice appropriate concerns and help find progressive solutions," Costa stated. He pointed out that for the past twenty-seven years Yolanda has worked with Medicare, Medi-Cal and employer health insurances. She has served on the California health Advocates Board and the Kern Senior Collaborative Healthcare Committee. "A proven advocate, Yolanda will not only return from the conference with a wealth of knowledge, she will also take to the conference a record of commitment to excellence in her dedicated service to the Kern County senior community," Congressman Costa concluded. Currently Yolanda is the Health Insurance Counseling and Advocacy Program manager for the Kern County Aging and Adult Services Department.
06.25.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) voiced his strong support today, Tuesday, 12/13/05 on the floor of the House of Representatives for preventing families from being exposed to the hazardous remains of methamphetamine labs. Speaking in support of HR 798, "Methamphetamine Remediation Act of 2005," Costa brought attention to the epidemic sweeping the San Joaquin Valley. "We in California's Central Valley have been fighting rampant meth abuse, production and clean up for over 20 years." HR 798 passed the House this afternoon on a unanimous vote. Costa said, "In the effort to keep residents safe from the waste produced by former meth labs, HR 798 requires the Environmental Protection Agency to develop guidelines that are voluntary and health-based for state and local governments to use in their clean-up efforts. Costa cited the effects of such waste on members of the community who move into former meth labs. "Unfortunately, methamphetamine abusers are not the only victims of this destructive drug," the Valley lawmaker said. "Studies show that the production of methamphetamine in labs and ‘super labs' leave dangerous bi-products that put innocent children and law enforcement in harms way." As a Member of the California State Legislature, Costa authored a law raising penalties for trafficking, manufacturing and the sale of methamphetamine to the same level as heroin and cocaine. Since becoming a member of Congress, Costa has continued his efforts to stamp out meth production in the Valley. Costa voted for passage of HR 798 both in the Science Committee, of which he is a member, and on the House Floor.
06.25.2007	FRESNO, CA - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced today (Wednesday, Dec. 14, 2005) that Fresno, Kern and Kings County will receive a grant totaling just under $2 million dollars from the United States Department of Justice office of the Bureau of Justice Assistance. "These funds," Costa said, "help to compensate states and localities for the costs incurred for incarcerating undocumented criminal aliens." "The Bureau of Justice Assistance," Congressman Costa explained, "administers the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program, in conjunction with the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and the Department of Homeland Security." California's 20th District will receive a total of $1,773,926 from this program and Fresno County will receive $1,045,772; Kern County will receive $613,980 and Kings County will receive $114,174.
06.25.2007	FRESNO, CA - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced today (Wednesday, Dec. 14, 2005) that Fresno County will receive a grant totaling just over $1 million dollars from the United States Department of Justice office of the Bureau of Justice Assistance. "These funds," Costa said, "help to compensate states and localities for the costs incurred for incarcerating undocumented criminal aliens." "The Bureau of Justice Assistance," Congressman Costa explained, "administers the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program, in conjunction with the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and the Department of Homeland Security." Fresno County will receive $1,045,772 to assist local law enforcement agencies.
06.25.2007	FRESNO, CA - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced today (Wednesday, Dec. 14, 2005) that Kern County will receive a grant of over $500,000 from the United States Department of Justice office of the Bureau of Justice Assistance. "These funds," Costa said, "help to compensate states and localities for the costs incurred for incarcerating undocumented criminal aliens." "The Bureau of Justice Assistance," Congressman Costa explained, "administers the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program, in conjunction with the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and the Department of Homeland Security." Kern County will receive $613,980 to assist local law enforcement agencies.
06.25.2007	FRESNO, CA - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced today (Wednesday, Dec. 14, 2005) that Kings County will receive a grant totaling over $100,000from the United States Department of Justice office of the Bureau of Justice Assistance. "These funds," Costa said, "help to compensate states and localities for the costs incurred for incarcerating undocumented criminal aliens." "The Bureau of Justice Assistance," Congressman Costa explained, "administers the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program, in conjunction with the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and the Department of Homeland Security." Kings County will receive $114,174 to assist local law enforcement agencies.
06.25.2007	FRESNO, CA - Congressman Jim Costa announced today (Wednesday Dec. 14, 2005) that Fresno Career Development Institute, Inc. will be the recipient of a grant of over $600,000 from the Employment and Training Administration of the United States Department of Labor. "It is often necessary for groups to work together to foster change," Costa noted. "For this reason," the Fresno lawmaker continued, "Fresno Career Development Institute will partner with various organizations throughout Fresno City and County to provide services which will aid the transition for prisoners upon re-entry into society. Congressman Costa pointed out the need for such programs stating, "The ability of our community to provide job training and basic living options speaks to our humanitarian efforts of lending a helping hand when called upon." Fresno Career Development Institute will utilize the $660,000 grant for employment development services, education services and pre-release outreach activities.
06.25.2007	FRESNO, CA - Congressman Jim Costa is seeking local student artists to compete in the Congressional Art Competition for the Twentieth District of California. The competition is open to ninth through twelfth grade students who live in the 20th Congressional District. The deadline for submission of artwork is Friday, May 6, 2005. The local winner will be invited to attend the festivities in Washington, DC on June 14, 2005. "This is a great opportunity to showcase the amazing talent of students from the Central Valley," stated Costa. The artwork from student artists nationwide will be displayed in the pedestrian walkway to the nation's Capitol for one year. Please contact Fabiola González in Representative Costa's district office for guidelines or any other questions. The Fresno office is located at, 2300 Tulare Street, #315, Fresno, California 93721. You may also call the office at 559-495-1620.
06.25.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) will be available Friday, February 11 at California State University Bakersfield in the Business Development Center, Room 165. He will report on his first month in Washington and his current committee assignments. Congressman Costa will be speaking at a Political Science class until 2pm on the campus and will be available immediately following. The Business Development Center is located directly across from the President' Office on campus. Please contact our office directly if you would like to schedule an interview or receive a statement. Date: Friday, February 11, 2005 The Office of Congressman Jim Costa Contact: Kherstin Khan 559.495.1620 Jack Hall 559.930.7956
06.25.2007	Congressman Jim Costa will be on site Tuesday, July 5, 2005 at the Kings County Board of Supervisors meeting. Representative Costa will be awarding the distinguished Veteran Les Collins, longtime Hanford resident, medals of recognition for his duty during World War II. On Tuesday, Mr. Collins will be presented with the Bronze Star, Good Conduct, Asiatic-Pacific Campaign, World War II Victory, and Army of Occupation medals. When: Tuesday, July 5, 2005 Time: 10:30 am Place: Kings County Board of Supervisors Meeting Kings County Government Center 1400 W. Lacey Hanford, CA 93230 For More Information Contact: Kherstin Khan: 559-495-1620 Jack Hall: 559-930-7956
06.25.2007	Fresno, CA - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) issued the following statement in support for the Executive Order creating "A California Partnership for the San Joaquin Valley." This partnership will bring together various local and state government and private entities committed to bringing about economic growth and prosperity within the San Joaquin Valley. Statement From Congressman Costa in Support of the California Partnership for the San Joaquin Valley: "I applaud the efforts of the Governor in announcing this new and important initiative and creating a partnership that involves the private sector, the academic community, and local, state and federal governments. Those of us who have worked on behalf of the Valley know and understand the challenges we face; however, we also know of the vast potential of the San Joaquin Valley. Fortunately, we come together today to mark the formation of ‘A California Partnership for the San Joaquin Valley.' This is an exciting opportunity for many people to bring their diverse knowledge to the drawing board and rededicate themselves to implementing a plan for revitalizing the San Joaquin Valley. Building working relationships with various governmental and nongovernmental agencies is a step in the right direction toward improving our Valley's economy. Together we will have a greater ability to advocate on behalf of the San Joaquin Valley and commit ourselves to bringing an economically prosperous San Joaquin Valley to fruition. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues in the California Congressional Delegation, especially those who represent the area, as well as the partners in this new initiative as we continue our efforts on behalf of the San Joaquin Valley." #
06.25.2007	Fresno, CA - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) issued the following statement in support for the Executive Order creating "A California Partnership for the San Joaquin Valley." This partnership will bring together various local and state government and private entities committed to bringing about economic growth and prosperity within the San Joaquin Valley. Statement From Congressman Costa in Support of the California Partnership for the San Joaquin Valley: "I applaud the efforts of the Governor in announcing this new and important initiative and creating a partnership that involves the private sector, the academic community, and local, state and federal governments. Those of us who have worked on behalf of the Valley know and understand the challenges we face; however, we also know of the vast potential of the San Joaquin Valley. Fortunately, we come together today to mark the formation of ‘A California Partnership for the San Joaquin Valley.' This is an exciting opportunity for many people to bring their diverse knowledge to the drawing board and rededicate themselves to implementing a plan for revitalizing the San Joaquin Valley. Building working relationships with various governmental and nongovernmental agencies is a step in the right direction toward improving our Valley's economy. Together we will have a greater ability to advocate on behalf of the San Joaquin Valley and commit ourselves to bringing an economically prosperous San Joaquin Valley to fruition. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues in the California Congressional Delegation, especially those who represent the area, as well as the partners in this new initiative as we continue our efforts on behalf of the San Joaquin Valley." #
06.25.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Jim Costa has been assigned to serve on three powerful House Committees: the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Resources and the Committee on Science. Congressman Costa also received his subcommittee assignments for these three committees. On the Committee on Agriculture he will serve on the Livestock and Horticulture Subcommittee and the Department Operations, Oversight, Nutrition and Forestry Subcommittee of the House Committee on Agriculture. The subcommittees review issues regarding fruits and vegetables, food stamps, nutrition programs and dairy. As a member of the General Farm Commodities and Risk Management Subcommittee, Costa will review programs and markets related to cotton and wheat, as well as other commodities. For the Committee on Resources the Congressman will serve on the Water and Power Subcommittee and the Energy and Mineral Resources Subcommittee. Costa's appointment will give his constituents a voice over water issues, such as water resources planning, research and development and irrigation programs, as well as mining, oil, and gas. In addition, Congressman Costa was named to the Space and Aeronautics Subcommittee of the House Committee on Science. The subcommittee has jurisdiction over the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), space policy and commercial space activities. Congressman Costa looks forward to representing Valley residents as a member of these important committees.
06.25.2007	Washington, D.C. - On April 13, 2005 at 1pm, the Subcommittee on Water and Power will hold an oversight hearing on "The Role of New Surface and Groundwater Storage in Providing Reliable Water and Power Supplies and Reducing Drought's Impacts." John Stovall, former Legal Counsel to Kern Country Water District, will testify at the hearing. "Mr. Stovall's expertise in dealing with these issues is a great asset to the Committee and it is wonderful that he will be able to share his knowledge of water storage issues," Costa stated. Mr. Stovall is being called as a witness to discuss the current surface and groundwater storage programs in the region, to provide his views on the benefits and costs of expanded storage programs and to discuss the appropriate role of the federal government in these projects. The Subcommittee on Water and Power hearing is part of a continuing series of oversight investigations to examine water storage issues and successes. These investigations ensure that Congress remains informed about water storage issues in the United States. "In the Central Valley, water supply and water quality are critical to our economic stability and the health of our children and families," said Costa. With 24 years of experience in the California state legislature, Costa has extensive knowledge of local water issues and is committed to continuing to work on water issues as a Member of Congress. The Subcommittee on Water and Power has jurisdiction over all matters pertaining to water resources planning, research and development programs. Congressman Costa is a member of the Resources Committee's Subcommittee on Water and Power and the Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources. In addition, Congressman Costa serves on the Committee on Agriculture and Committee on Science.
06.25.2007	Congressman Jim Costa will be available today, Friday March 11th, to discuss the district's federal transportation funding. Please contact Kherstin Khan or Jack Hall to schedule an interview. Kherstin Khan: 559-495-1620 Jack Hall: 559-930-7956
06.25.2007	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Jim Costa announced that California's 20th Congressional District will receive $16 million in funding from the Transportation Equity Act: Legacy for Users (TEA-LU). 1. $9.5 million for Freeway 180 improvements from Hughes/West Avenue to Brawley in Fresno County, CA. 2. $3.5 million for rehabilitation, repair, and/or reconstruction of deficient two-lane roads that connect to Interstate 5, State Route 180, State Route 41, and State Route 99 countywide in Fresno County, CA. 3. $3 million to widen Route 198 between State Route 99 to State Route 43 in Kings County, CA. "This funding is the first step in a comprehensive local, state and federal effort to complete transportation projects in the 20th district. However, transportation needs in the Valley greatly exceed what just federal money can provide. Without the continued support for Measure C, these local projects might not be able to be completed. Federal funds should complement and enhance local efforts like the approval of Measure C and the state meeting its transportation funding obligations." As TEA-LU undergoes final approval, the amount of funding the 20th district receives may change.
06.25.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. -Six Valley congressmen today released a preliminary federal report that shows an eight-county area of the San Joaquin Valley persistently gets the short end of the federal funding stick. In a joint press conference via satellite from Washington, D.C., Reps. Devin Nunes, Dennis Cardoza, George Radanovich, and Jim Costa said the Central Valley region ranks below historically impoverished regions around the nation, yet doesn't get the same level of federal investment. Reps. Bill Thomas and Richard Pombo were unable to attend the press event but can be contacted at their offices (their comments can also be found below). Some of the basic findings include: Per capita federal direct expenditures and obligations to the San Joaquin Valley were $4,736 for fiscal year 2002, compared to per capita federal direct expenditures and obligations to the United States were $6,814 for fiscal year 2002. That means that the San Joaquin Valley got $2,000 less per capita compared to the national average. The report also showed that the 2000 poverty rate for the San Joaquin Valley (20.5%) was significantly higher than the national rate (12.4%) and California (14.2%). The final report, which will pool data from multiple sources and provide relevant analysis, will be released several weeks from now. The preliminary results, while not surprising, do begin to lay a foundation by which the lawmakers can begin to affect budget decisions as Congress enters its appropriations season. Rep. Bill Thomas "The data included in the report reflect what many in the Valley suspected: That the Central Valley continues to have many needs, and that we need more federal funding," said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Bill Thomas, R-Bakersfield. "I will continue to work with my colleagues to improve the Central Valley's, and California's, share of federal funding." Rep. Dennis Cardoza "The Central Valley is being shortchanged by the federal government," said Rep. Dennis Cardoza, D-Merced. "With an exploding population, it's time to pull people together to coordinate a plan of action and make the most of our resources in order to address our problems." Rep. Richard Pombo "This study gives us a good baseline assessment and solidifies the case for more funding," said Resources Committee Chairman Richard Pombo, R-Tracy. "More important, we must focus on projects already in the works that will better the lives of the people living in the Central Valley. We must create transportation solutions, which will lead to access to better jobs and improve the overall economy." Rep. Devin Nunes "Considering the challenges we face here in the Central Valley with chronic, high unemployment and pervasive poverty, we have been overlooked for federal investment and assistance," said Rep. Devin Nunes, R-Visalia. "I think it is unrealistic to ask for new money to level the playing field. What we need to do is make sure the San Joaquin Valley is getting its fair share of existing federal dollars that are already allocated." But even as the report details ongoing problems in the eight-county region, the lawmakers have already been involved in efforts to reverse the federal funding trend. Last year, the lawmakers joined forces to strengthen a Clinton-era Executive Order mandating increased federal attention to the Central Valley. The changes to the Executive Order were signed by President George Bush and are being implemented by a federal task force. The bipartisan group of lawmakers said they will use the information found in the new report by the Congressional Research Service (CRS) to leverage even greater help through the task force in the months and years to come. The lawmakers also laid out an action plan to address issues raised in the report: The congressmen have requested a meeting with officials at the White House to discuss the report and identify areas of priority. Utilize the report to advance a bill to include Hwy. 99 in the federal interstate system, which would make it eligible for increased funding. Each congressman will hold events in their districts to help local governments and agencies improve their efforts to apply for and receive federal grants and contracts. Rep. Nunes "Highway 99 is the economic umbilical cord for the Central Valley to the greater commercial centers in northern and southern California," said Rep. Nunes, who introduced the bill last month. "As a coalition of lawmakers, we can make the improvements needed to ensure the continued growth of industry and jobs here at home." Rep. Cardoza "The Central Valley is growing, but the resources for law enforcement are not," Rep. Cardoza said. "While we have been successful in obtaining grants and other funding for programs that fight against meth and gangs, more must be done to obtain our fair share of the federal resources available." Background The six lawmakers requested the study in 2004, hoping the information uncovered in it would help leverage the efforts of the federal Interagency Taskforce designated to lend federal assistance to the region. The CRS report details the current socioeconomic and environmental concerns in the San Joaquin Valley and assesses the role of federal assistance to the cities and counties of the Valley. The final report due out several weeks from now will explore in detail the extent to which the San Joaquin Valley shares similarities with and differences from other economically depressed areas in the United States. Of particular interest is the role of federal assistance in the San Joaquin Valley relative to its role in other economically distinctive areas. The study's major analytical focus will be the eight counties that largely compromise the Valley (and that represent the six members' Congressional Districts): Fresno, Kern, Kings, Madera, Merced, Stanislaus, San Joaquin and Tulare. The report will also focus on the six metropolitan statistical areas (MSAs) of the valley: Fresno, Merced, Modesto, Stockton-Lodi, Bakersfield, and Visalia-Tulare-Porterville.
06.25.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Jim Costa, who represents California's 20th District, is pleased to announce his DC staff. Scott Nishioki serves as the Chief of Staff for Congressman Costa. Scott recently worked for the American Bankers Association. In the past, he was the Deputy Chief of Staff for Department of Commerce Secretary Norman Mineta and was the Executive Director for External Affairs for Pacific Telesis and SBC. In addition to having been a Chief of Staff in the past, Scott also served as the Staff Director for the House Banking Committee's Consumer Affairs Subcommittee. Scott is a California Central Valley native. Lisa Shelton is a Legislative Assistant for Congressman Jim Costa and manages the Congressman's work on the House Agriculture Committee. In addition, Lisa serves as the liaison for the Blue Dog Coalition and is responsible for health, immigration and social security. Lisa worked for Congressman Baron Hill for three years where she focused on agricultural issues. Lisa is also a native Californian. John Drake serves as a Legislative Assistant to Congressman Jim Costa. As the Congressman's liaison to the Resources Committee, John oversees water issues, energy, land use and Native American issues. Additionally, he is responsible for transportation issues, foreign affairs and financial services. John formerly served as a Legislative Assistant to Congressman Peter Deutsch, and also served in Congressman Howard Berman's office. John is a native Californian. Tracy Sherman serves as a Legislative and Press Assistant in Congressman Costa's office. She focuses on issues involving education, housing, the arts and minority rights. In addition, Tracy is the Congressional Hispanic Caucus liaison. Prior to joining Congressman Costa's office, Tracy served as Legislative Correspondent and Deputy Press Secretary for Congressman Richard Gephardt. Kerri Hatfield is Congressman Costa's Executive Assistant. She recently worked in Senator Breaux's office as a Staff Assistant. Kerri is a native of the California's Central Valley and a graduate of University of Redlands in Redlands, CA. Janaki Dighe, a recent graduate of UCLA, is the Staff Assistant in Congressman Costa's office. She recently interned with the City of Los Angeles Mayor's Office of Intergovernmental Affairs. Janaki is originally from Northern California. #
06.25.2007	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) announced federal transportation grants awarded to California's 20th Congressional District. "I would like to congratulate the City of Coalinga and the City of Fresno on receiving these grants and thank them for their service to the Central Valley," Congressman Costa said. The City of Coalinga will receive $150,000 from the Federal Aviation Administration. These funds will be used to help install automated weather reporting equipment, rehabilitate runways and install perimeter fending at the New Coalinga Municipal Airport. The point of contact is Mr. Richard Warne, who is the City Manger. The City of Fresno Traffic Operations Center will receive $302,946.00 from the Federal Highway Administration. The Traffic Operations Center studies traffic patterns, installs traffic lights and monitors parking meters. At this time, the Federal Highway Administration can only provide 2/3rds of the grant. The total grant award will be for $454,419. The remaining funding will be awarded to the City of Fresno after the US House and Senate pass the final version of Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy For Users. #
06.25.2007	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) announced a federal transportation grant awarded to California's 20th Congressional District. "I would like to congratulate the Minter Field Airport District on receiving this grant and thank them for their service to the Central Valley," Congressman Costa said. The Minter Field Airport District will receive $150,000 from the Federal Aviation Administration. These funds will be used for rehabilitations of the existing airport access road, installation of approximately 4,200 feet of perimeter fencing and construction of two taxi lanes for the east hanger areas. This project is necessary to improve the existing access road pavement, enhance safety at the airport and meet general aviation demands. The point of contact is Mr. Herman Ruddle who is the Airport General Manager.
06.25.2007	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) announced a federal transportation grant awarded to California's 20th Congressional District. "I would like to congratulate the City of Hanford on receiving this grant and thank them for their service to the Central Valley," Congressman Costa said. The City of Hanford will receive $150,000 from the Federal Aviation Administration. These funds will be used to acquire approximately 12.9 acres of land for approach protection to runway 14 at Hanford Municipal Airport. The project is necessary to enhance safety and meet current airport design standards. The point of contact is Mr. Jan Reynolds, who is the City Manager.
06.25.2007	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) announced federal education grants awarded to California's 20th Congressional District. "I would like to congratulate the schools on receiving these grants and thank them for their service to the Central Valley," Congressman Costa said. California State University of Fresno, California State University of Bakersfield, Fresno City College and West Hills Community College will all receive federal funding under TRIO Student Support Services Program. TRIO refers to three education programs; Upward Bound, Talent Search and Student Support Services. Several additional programs have been added over the years. The Student Support Services Program provides grants to institutions of higher education. The funding is awarded to programs that work to the increase the retention and graduation rates of low-income and first generation college students. Projects under this program include activities designed to acquaint students with a range of available career options, mentoring programs and assistance in securing admission and financial aid for graduate and professional programs. California State University of Fresno and California State University of Bakersfield will each receive approximately $280,000, which will allow them to serve 200 and 250 students respectively. West Hills Community College will receive approximately $285,000 and will be able to serve 400 students with this funding. Fresno City College will receive approximately $235,000 which will allow them to serve 160 students. "TRIO is a great program that benefits many students in the Central Valley. Unfortunately, the President's proposed budget reduces funding for this important education program," Costa stated.
06.25.2007	Washington D.C. - At a bi-partisan press conference today, Congressman Jim Costa strongly supported the continuation of the Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) Fund. Also in attendance were Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Congresswoman Katherine Harris (FL-13), Mr. Tom Charron, the Executive Director of the National District Attorneys Association, Mr. Mark Lunsford, the father of Jessica Lunsford who was murdered in Florida, and 14 national victim rights groups. The President's budget proposes rescinding the money in the Victims of Crime Act Fund. "Victims are here today with their heart and soul to ensure Congress does the right thing. I began my commitment to victims' rights years ago in the California state legislature by supporting programs that provide services and outreach to victims of crime. Ironically, these are the very programs that stand to lose funding if the Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) Fund is wiped out. We cannot allow that to happen. While in the California state legislature, I authored "Three Strikes, You're Out," which is America's toughest standard against violent crime. In addition, we built prisons in California to put people away who do not obey the law," stated Costa. "As we come out of National Crime Victims' Rights week, It is crucial to remember the needs and victims and the resources we can provide for them. The Victims of Crime Act Fund provides many vital services to victims and their families. Rescinding the money in the Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) Fund would severely hurt crime victims' programs and many non-profit organizations that provide victims' services would struggle to exist," said Costa. "The Victims of Crime Act Fund is crucial to many communities and organizations that rely on it for victims' services and compensation. In the 20th district, many organizations receive money from the Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) Fund. Kern, Kings and Fresno county probation departments all receive funding. In addition, rape crisis centers receive funding which assists them in providing services to rape survivors. The Marjorie Mason Center in Fresno uses the funding to help victims of domestic violence and Clincia Sierra Vista in Lamont receives funding which they use to provide health services to victims of crime. These groups serve as a great example of the diverse programs that receive funding. Whether it is to provide health care, counseling or cover funeral expenses, these resources are extremely helpful in serving local communities and reaching out to victims of crime and their families," stated Costa. "Crime victims have suffered enough and it is important to remember how we can improve their lives and their families' lives. The Victims of Crime Act Fund is a $1.2 billion program that serves almost 4 million victims and their families every year. The Fund provides services for victims of homicide, drunk driving, identify theft, robbery and rape," stated Costa. "I will continue to work on behalf of the families of victims to protect this funding," concluded Costa. Congressman Costa is a co-chair of the Congressional Victims' Rights Caucus. #
06.25.2007	The President's proposed budget seriously jeopardizes the future funding mechanism of the Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) Crime Victims Fund. The Fund was enacted to pay for victims' services and compensations. It operates with money collected from criminal offenders, not taxpayers. Once collected, the funding is distributed to victims and organizations that provide victims' services. There are approximately 4,400 agencies that depend upon the victim assistance funds to provide direct services to 3.6 million crime victims a year. "During National Crime Victims' Rights Week, it is crucial to remember the needs of victims and the resources we can provide them with," stated Costa. "The Crime Victims Fund is crucial to many communities and organizations that rely on it for victims' services and compensation. The Fund helps provide funding for domestic violence shelters, victims' compensation for court costs, funeral services and medical expenses," Costa said. President Bush's budget proposes removing all amounts deposited during FY 2006 and putting this money in the general fund. This means that there would be no money left in the Crime Victims Fund to distribute in FY 2007. This proposal would severely hurt crime victims' programs. Despite the President's proposal, congressional appropriators have consistently stated that all amounts in the Crime Victims Fund be kept there for victims and victims' services. "I strongly oppose the President's budget proposal that would zero out the Crime Victims Fund," stated Costa. "The Fund provides many crucial services to victims in the Central Valley. For example, every county probation department in the 20th district receives Crime Victims Funding. In addition, Clinica Sierra Vista uses the funding to provide health services to victims of crime and Marjorie Mason Center uses the funding to help victims of domestic violence," said Costa. "Crime victims have suffered enough. During this week, it is important to remember how we can improve their lives. The Crime Victims Fund provides a great service to victims," Costa concluded. Congressman Costa is a founding member of the Congressional Victims' Rights Caucus. #
06.22.2007	WASHINGTON, DC & FRESNO, CA - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced that two new employees will be joining his staff. Chris Rosander will serve as Costa's new District Director in Fresno, CA, and Bret Rumbeck will work in Washington, DC as a legislative and press assistant. "Both Chris and Bret bring deep Valley roots to my staff, and I am excited to have them on board," said Costa. Rosander was born and raised in Fresno, CA and is a 1975 graduate of Edison High School. He served as an aircraft mechanic in the Fresno Air National Guard, and received a degree in mechanical engineering from Fresno State. Following graduation, Rosander worked with McDonnell Douglas as a rocket scientist. Rosander previously worked in Washington, DC as a legislative assistant to former Congressman Norm Mineta (D-San Jose), and as a budget examiner with the White House Office of Management and Budget. He and his daughter Caterina currently reside in Fresno. Rumbeck is a native of Turlock, CA, and graduated from Turlock High School in 1998. He attended California Lutheran University, and graduated in 2002 with a degree in history. Previously, Rumbeck worked in Merced, CA for Congressman Dennis Cardoza (D-Atwater) as a field representative, and recently worked for three years in Washington, DC for Senator Chuck Schumer (D-New York) as a legislative aide on defense, foreign affairs, and agriculture issues. He also served as an intern for Senator Dianne Feinstein, and State Senator Jack O'Connell.
06.22.2007	FRESNO, CA - On Saturday June 23rd, Congressman Jim Costa, D-Fresno, will be available to the press to discuss recent Congressional action on the Farm Bill, the recently passed energy package, and immigration. WHO: Rep. Jim Costa, D-Fresno WHAT: Media Availability WHEN: Saturday June 23, 2007, 1:45pm WHERE: Starbucks 2097 W. Bullard Avenue Fresno, CA 93711
06.22.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP) reimbursement funds for Kern, Kings, and Fresno Counties. SCAAP is a formula grant program which provides assistance to states and localities for correctional officer salary costs incurred for incarcerating undocumented criminal aliens. Kern County will receive approximately $942,850, Kings County will receive approximately $126,900, and Fresno County will receive approximately $1,038,345 in SCAAP funds for 2006. Overall, the State of California was awarded $91,781,092 in SCAAP funds. "Our correctional officers are dealing with California's worst criminals on a daily basis, and these funds are badly needed to properly compensate them for the extra hours they put in dealing with illegal aliens who break the law," said Costa. Costa has been a strong supporter of SCAAP, and has co-signed letters to House appropriators to fully fund SCAAP to ensure local law enforcement is paid back for their extra service. Today, Costa also co-signed a letter to House Appropriations Chairman David Obey (D-Wisconsin) to fund SCAAP to the Fiscal Year 2007 level of $405 million. The SCAAP was created under the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, and is administered by the Bureau of Justice Assistance, which is part of the United States Department of Justice. Any state or locality that sustained costs for incarcerating undocumented criminal aliens is eligible to apply for SCAAP reimbursement. SCAAP payments can also be used to upgrade communications systems, construction of new jails, or to make overall improvements to the local criminal justice system.
06.14.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced the establishment of the bipartisan Congressional Water Caucus. Costa, along with Representatives John Linder (R-Georgia), Bart Stupak (D-Michigan), George Radanovich (R-Mariposa) and Grace Napolitano (D-California), will be a co-chairman of this caucus, with goals of promoting dialogue among Members of Congress and staff about water quality, supply and access. Another major goal of this new caucus will be to educate representatives about water, providing scientific information about water resources and water use. "This new caucus has the potential to be a strong voice on water issues in the halls of Congress," said Costa. "With droughts currently plaguing much of country, and with long periods of nation-wide drought on the horizon, we need to work together today to come up with solutions for tomorrow. Water is not only the lifeblood of California, but of our nation as a whole." Recently, there have been reports of drought spreading from California and Arizona to 11 other western states, as well as Minnesota which is experiencing its worst drought since 1976. The Southeast is also experiencing severe dryness, and Lake Okeechobee in Florida, America's second largest body of fresh water, dropped almost 9 feet last week. "If there ever was a time to discuss the future of water in America, that time is now," said Costa. "It's a matter critical for our country and it is an issue of international security."
06.06.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Jim Costa, D-Fresno, today announced that he is accepting applications for the House of Representatives Congressional Page Program for this fall semester. Candidates must be at least 16 years old, entering their junior year in high school, carry at least a 3.0 GPA, and reside in the 20th Congressional District in order to apply. This is a very competitive program, with only 66 Page positions available in the House of Representatives per semester. The application deadline for the fall semester is June 13th. "The Page program is one of the best ways for young men and women to truly learn the workings of Congress," said Costa. "The hands-on experiences they will have will be carried with them forever, and even give them a leg-up as they complete their high school education and consider college. I am excited to bring a student from our Valley to Washington, DC for the fall, and I strongly encourage interested students to apply." Congressional Pages hired by the House of Representatives perform a wide variety of tasks and act as vital messengers between the House and the Senate chambers by delivering legislation from the House, and personal correspondence between Members of Congress. They also provide assistance to the House Cloakroom throughout the legislative day, and prepare the House Chamber for floor sessions. Costa's nominee will serve in Washington, DC from September 2007 to January 2008. Along with working on the House Floor, Pages attend school and receive a $13,000 stipend for their work. While living in Washington, Pages live in the Page Residence Hall, which has appropriate security and proper supervision. Students interested in applying should contact one of Congressman Costa's offices immediately to receive an application. Students must reside within the 20th Congressional District to be considered for the program. For more information, please visit Congressman Costa's website at www.house.gov/costa.
06.04.2007	FRESNO, CA - Congressman Jim Costa, D-Fresno, will be leading a press conference on Monday, June 4st, calling on Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger to support continued funding for high speed rail in next year's budget. As the final weeks of debate between the Legislature and the Governor for the state budget near, there is a need to fund this critical project to continue the momentum and progress recently achieved. "It's clear that the California congressional delegation is highly supportive of seeing high speed rail funded in next year's state budget," said Costa. "High speed rail is a critical need for our state, and especially for our Valley. Governor Schwarzenegger needs to be able to provide transportation alternatives for the state, and the time is now for him to take a stand." A bi-partisan letter will be delivered by Costa that he co-signed with other members of the California congressional delegation to the governor following the press conference. The letter will urge the governor to support an adequate level of funding for the California High Speed Rail Authority for the coming year. WHO: Rep. Jim Costa, D-Fresno WHAT: High Speed Rail Event WHEN: Monday, June 4th at 10:00am WHERE: Santa Fe Depot 2650 Tulare Street, Fresno, CA 93721
06.04.2007	FRESNO, CA - Today, Congressman Jim Costa, D-Fresno, lead a press conference calling on Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger to support continued funding for high speed rail in next year's state budget. As the final weeks of debate between the Legislature and the Governor for the state budget near, there is a need to fund this critical project to continue the momentum and progress recently achieved. "It's clear that the California congressional delegation is highly supportive of seeing high speed rail funded in next year's state budget," said Costa. "High speed rail is a critical need for our state, and especially for our Valley. Governor Schwarzenegger needs to be able to provide transportation alternatives for the state, and the time is now for him to take a stand." A bi-partisan letter was delivered by Costa that he co-signed with other members of the California congressional delegation to the governor following the press conference. The letter urged the governor to support an adequate level of funding for the California High Speed Rail Authority for the coming year.
05.31.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - Last week, Congressman Jim Costa, D-Fresno, introduced legislation which would provide for a study regarding development of a comprehensive integrated regional water management plan which would address four general areas of regional water planning. This would include both the San Joaquin River Hydrologic Region and the Tulare Lake Hydrologic Region. The study would provide a plan for cities, counties, and water agencies to address and solve long-term water needs. "Water is the lifeblood of our Valley, and we need to ensure there is a detailed road map in place to manage this resource in the 21st century as the Valley grows," said Costa. "This bill is a step in the right direction for jobs, recreation, and the environment. It will also help to improve water supply, water quality, and reliability for Valley residents and farmers." Costa's bill, HR 2498, would award a grant to the California Water Institute, located at California State University, Fresno, to conduct a study coordinating and integrating sub-regional regional water management plans into a unified Integrated Regional Water Management Plan for Kern, Tulare, Kings, Fresno, Madera, Merced, Stanislaus, and San Joaquin counties. Already, the bill has bi-partisan support from Congressman Devin Nunes (R- Visalia), Congressman Dennis Cardoza (D-Atwater), Congressman George Radanovich (R- Mariposa) and Congressman Kevin McCarthy (R- Bakersfield). Congressman Costa will be available to the media to discuss his legislation tomorrow, May 31st, from 9am to 11am at his Fresno District Office. The office is located at 855 "M" Street, Suite 940, Fresno, CA.
05.31.2007	BAKERSFIELD, CA - On Friday June 1, Congressman Jim Costa, D-Fresno, will be available to the press to discuss recent Congressional action on the military supplemental funding bill, the ethics reform package, and the minimum wage increase. He will also be willing to discuss the House and Senate effort to bring about comprehensive bi-partisan immigration reform during June and July in cooperation with President Bush. WHO: Rep. Jim Costa, D-Fresno WHAT: Media Availability WHEN: Friday, June 1st, at 9:15am WHERE: William M. Thomas Terminal 3701 Wings Way, Bakersfield, CA 93308
05.29.2007	FRESNO, CA - On Saturday May 26, Congressman Jim Costa, D-Fresno, will be available to the press to discuss recent Congressional action on the military supplemental funding bill, the ethics reform package, and the minimum wage increase. WHO: Rep. Jim Costa, D-Fresno WHAT: Media Availability WHEN: Saturday May 26, 2007, 4:30pm WHERE: Sunnyside Country Club 5704 East Butler Road, Fresno, CA 93727
05.29.2007	FRESNO, CA - On Monday May 28, Congressman Jim Costa, D-Fresno, will be speaking at two Memorial Day commemorations. WHO: Rep. Jim Costa, D-Fresno WHAT: Memorial Day Events WHEN: Monday May 28, 2007 from 9am to 11am. WHERE: 9:00am: American Legion Post 55 Event at Washington Colony Cemetery 7318 South Elm Street, Fresno, CA 93706 10:00am: American Legion Post 4 Event at Liberty Veterans Cemetery 1831 West Belmont Avenue, Fresno, CA 93728
05.29.2007	FRESNO, CA - Congressman Jim Costa, D-Fresno, will be traveling throughout the district during this week's district work period. He will be available to the media following each of these events. Please call for more information or interviews. Wednesday May 30th, 2007 From 12:00pm to 1:30pm, the Congressman will attend the KSEE 24 Asian Pacific Islander Americans 2007 Portraits of Success Awards luncheon at the United Japanese Christian Church. At 1:30pm, he will speak at the World War II American Merchant Marine Veterans Awards Ceremony. This event will take place at the Legion of Valor Museum, Veteran's Memorial Auditorium located at 2425 Fresno Street, Fresno, CA. Thursday May 31st, 2007 Between 12:30pm and 2:00pm, Congressman Costa will attend the announcement of USDA Rural Development Loans and Grants to the city of Firebaugh. Firebaugh Middle School will host the event, and it is located at 1600 16th Street, Firebaugh, CA 93622. Saturday June 2nd, 2007 Congressman Costa will attend a Welcome Appreciation and Celebration at Lemoore Naval Air Station at 12:00pm. He will be speaking at 1pm. There are 400 people estimated to attend, including 150 to 200 service men and women.
05.23.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - The continuing federal budget resolution passed by the House Wednesday contains money that could be used to complete construction of the Mendota Federal Prison, according to Congressman Jim Costa, D-Fresno. Included in the Bureau of Prisons portion of the continuing resolution is more than $432 million in prison construction funds. In remarks prepared for delivery on the House floor, Costa praised House Appropriations Committee Chairman David Obey, D-WI, and Congressman Jerry Lewis, R-CA, the Committee's Ranking Member, "for including sufficient funding to complete the construction of the Mendota Federal Prison." The current phase of construction on the Mendota site is due to be completed in March and funding issues had left continuation of the project in limbo. However, Costa noted that with passage of the budget resolution, "The federal government is stepping up to a commitment that was to California and Mendota by providing enough funds to complete the prison." So far, Costa stated, the Bureau of Prisons has spent $100 million to complete about 40 percent of the Mendota prison facility. Once completed, the facility will provide 1552 beds to help address overcrowding in the nation's federal prison system which is currently 37 percent over capacity. Costa said, "The prison will provide good jobs and a major boost to Mendota's very depressed local economy." # # #
05.23.2007	FRESNO, CA - On Friday, March 2, Congressman Jim Costa, D-Fresno, will be joined by Congressman Devin Nunes, R-Tulare, along with California Department of Agriculture A.G. Kawamura at a Listening Session regarding the 2007 Farm Bill. The Listening Session will provide an overview of the Bush Administration's proposals for the Farm Bill and industry stakeholders with the opportunity to discuss issues related to the Farm Bill and its impact on the Central Valley. Reps. Costa and Nunes and Secretary Kawamura will available to comment prior to the Listening Session. WHO: Rep. Jim Costa, D-Fresno Rep. Devin Nunes, R-Tulare A.G. Kawamura, CFDA Secretary WHAT: Listening Session on 2007 Farm Bill WHEN: Friday, March 2, 10:00 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. WHERE: Fresno City Council Chambers, Fresno City Hall 2600 Fresno Street, Fresno ###
05.23.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Jim Costa, D-Fresno, will participate in a joint news conference to discuss bipartisan legislation which will provide emergency disaster assistance related to the recent freeze. The bills will be introduced Wednesday in both the House and Senate. At the Washington news conference Costa will join Senator Barbara Boxer and Congressman Devin Nunes, R-Tulare, to discuss the legislation. Senator Boxer will introduce the emergency legislation in the Senate and Costa and Nunes will co-sponsor the House bill. The legislation will provide aid to farmers and workers who were impacted by last month's freeze. Local print media interested in covering the news conference can do so by phoning in to the toll-free number listed below. A live satellite feed will also be available for local television stations from the House Recording Studio. The news conference begins at 11:15 a.m. Pacific Standard Time. Print and radio media can call: 1-888-455-9666. The Pass Code is: 38885. Television stations can pick up the live feed with the following coordinates: I A 6, transponder 9 93 degrees west, c-band Downlink frequency 3880, vertical polarity Standard audio follow 6.2/6.8 11:15 a.m. - 12 noon Pacific Standard Time # # #
05.23.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Legislation to aid Valley farmers and workers, H.R. 925 was introduced today in the U.S. House of Representatives by a bipartisan coalition of 26 California House members led by Congressmen Jim Costa, D-Fresno, and Devin Nunes, R-Tulare. Senator Barbara Boxer introduced a bill in the U.S. Senate today containing the same provisions. Announcement of the introduction of the bills by Congressmen Costa and Nunes and Senator Boxer was made at a joint news conference held Wednesday in Washington, D.C. Reps. George Radanovich, R-Mariposa, and Kevin McCarthy, R- Bakersfield, also spoke at the news conference in support of the legislation along with California Secretary of Agriculture A.G. Kawamura and California Secretary of Labor Victoria Bradshaw. "The January freeze has endangered the livelihood of farmers and farm workers in the Valley and throughout the state," Costa said, adding, "This bipartisan legislation will bring much needed aid to these farmers and farm workers and others who have been impacted by the devastating freeze." "Some may say that this bill is costly. My response is simple. The cost to rural communities across our state is far greater, should Congress not act. We have a responsibly to help our constituents suffering from natural disasters and I hope we can move quickly to get assistance to those in need", said Congressman Nunes. "Many Central Valley farmers, ranchers and workers have endured great hardships as a result of the January freeze," said Congressman Dennis Cardoza, D-Merced. "This federal relief package would provide badly needed assistance to those hardest hit by this natural disaster." "Today, I join my friends, Jim Costa and Devin Nunes, and my fellow California lawmakers in supporting a bipartisan effort to bring relief to those devastated by the recent freeze," said Congressman McCarthy. "With California agricultural losses estimated in the billions of dollars, we must do what we can to help our hardworking farmers and farm workers get back on their feet and continue to feed our nation." Congressman Radanovich said, "I'm grateful for the work the Governor has done to declare this freeze a disaster and encourage the President to work quickly to do the same. This legislation is going to provide much needed relief to all those who have suffered due to the extreme weather conditions over the past year and a half. I would also like to thank and recognize the local charities that responded quickly to provide immediate assistance to those in need." The disaster aid legislation will provide as much as $1.7 billion emergency assistance to agricultural producers, manufacturers and workers in 22 counties in California. In addition to providing aid to farmers, ranchers and farm workers impacted by the January freeze, the bill also covers losses due to flooding in 2005 and heat or flooding in 2006 and losses as a result of salmon harvesting restrictions on the Klamath River Fall. Specific provisions of the bill include: Assistance to specialty crops, nursery crops and trees, in addition to vines, livestock and dairy production losses. Livestock and dairy payments up to a limit of $125,000. Small business loans Human assistance including food coupons, grants to assist low-income and seasonal farm workers and temporary mortgage and rental assistance. # # #
05.23.2007	Congressman Jim Costa, D- Fresno, will speak on the House floor this afternoon between 4:30 p.m. and 4:45 p.m. regarding HR 109. HR 109 is a resolution recognizing the historical significance of the Pinedale Assembly Center in Fresno County where Japanese Americans were interned during World War II. Groundbreaking on Pinedale Memorial will take place on February 19. The Memorial will honor the nearly 5,000 Japanese Americans who reported to the Pinedale Assembly Center following the Executive Order signed by President Franklin D. Roosevelt authorizing the forced internment of Japanese Americans. Costa's speech can be recorded off the C-SPAN coverage of the House of Representatives. # # #
05.23.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Jim Costa, D-Fresno, and 48 Members of the bipartisan California Congressional Delegation, including Senators Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer, have sent a letter to President Bush, calling on him to immediately issue a Presidential disaster declaration for the 31 counties of California that sustained damage to the state's multi-billion dollar agricultural industry caused by extreme low temperatures. "It is long past time for the President to take action," Costa said, adding, "Farmers, ranchers, farm workers and communities hit hard by the freeze need the full resources of the federal government behind them now to recover from the damage." Other Valley Members signing the letter including Congressmen Dennis Cardoza, D-Merced; Kevin McCarthy, R- Bakersfield; Devin Nunes, R- Tulare and George Radanovich, R-Mariposa. On January 17 the full bipartisan Congressional Delegation sent a letter to Secretary of Agriculture, Mike Johanns, calling for federal assistance for the damage sustained during the crop freeze, resulting in a Secretarial Disaster Declaration for 13 of California's counties. The full text of the letter is below: February 9, 2007 The Honorable George W. Bush President of the United States The White House Washington, DC Mr. President: As you know, beginning January 11, 2007, California was subjected to extreme cold temperatures, significantly damaging crops throughout the state. As a result, on February 2, 2007, Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger requested a Presidential disaster declaration for Alameda, Amador, Calaveras, El Dorado, Fresno, Glenn, Imperial, Kern, Kings, Lake, Los Angeles, Madera, Marin, Mendocino, Merced, Monterey, Riverside, Sacramento, San Benito, San Bernardino, San Diego, San Luis Obispo, San Mateo, Santa Barbara, Santa Clara, Solano, Stanislaus, Tulare, Ventura, Yolo and Yuba counties, as described under the provisions of Section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act. We write as members of California's bipartisan Congressional delegation to urge your approval of the Governor's request for federal assistance. The damage associated with extreme low temperatures in California has been devastating to the state's multi-billion dollar agricultural industry. This freeze is especially concerning to California's $1 billion citrus industry, with provides nearly 95% of the country's fresh citrus supply. In many cases, only a small percentage of citrus crops had been harvested prior to the freeze. As such, approximately 92 million cartons of fruit were on trees and vulnerable during this period of extreme low temperatures. The Central Valley Valencia crop had not even begun harvesting and 70% of the state's lemon and mandarin crops were still on trees. Some other crops experiencing significant damage include: mango, grapefruit, avocado, lettuce, broccoli, pepper, cauliflower, artichoke and celery. In short, a significant variety of crops over a large geographic area in California were impacted. To date, damages are estimated to exceed $1.2 billion and this number is only expected to grow as damage assessments continue statewide. It is important to note that these losses will not only be felt by California farmers. The economic impacts of such a catastrophic freeze will be felt throughout the state. Thousands of hardworking farm workers and their families are now facing job displacement and income loss. The Central Valley citrus industry alone employs 12,000 workers. Unemployment related to the freeze is expected to exceed levels experienced during the freezes of 1990-1991 and 1998-1999 and many displaced workers are already seeking food, clothing, and housing assistance. Small businesses and rural communities who depend on agribusiness such as restaurants, truckers, and retail suppliers are also being severely impacted and will require extensive economic assistance in order to recover. At this time, the California Office of Emergency Services, the California Department of Food and Agriculture and other state and local agencies are doing all they can to provide relief. And federal agencies such as the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the Small Business Administration and the Federal Emergency Management Agency have been actively assisting in the disaster recovery process. However, it is clear that the magnitude of this disaster is far beyond the resources of the state and requires the full support of the federal government. Therefore, we strongly support Governor Schwarzenegger's request for a Presidential disaster declaration. We appreciate your assistance in this important matter and look forward to working with you in response to this disaster. Sincerely, Speaker Nancy Pelosi (CA-8) Sen. Barbara Boxer Sen. Dianne Feinstein Rep. Mike Thompson (CA-1) Rep. Wally Herger (CA-2) Rep. Daniel Lungren (CA-3) Rep. John Doolittle (CA-4) Rep. Doris Matsui (CA-5) Rep. Lynn Woolsey (CA-6) Rep. George Miller (CA-7) Rep. Barbara Lee (CA-9) Rep. Ellen Tauscher (CA-10) Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-11) Rep. Tom Lantos (CA-12) Rep. Pete Stark (CA-13) Rep. Anna Eshoo (CA-14) Rep. Mike Honda (CA-15) Rep. Zoe Lofgren (CA-16) Rep. Sam Farr (CA-17) Rep. Dennis Cardoza (CA-18) Rep. George Radanovich (CA-19) Rep. Jim Costa (CA-20) Rep. Devin Nunes (CA-21) Rep. Kevin McCarthy (CA-22) Rep. Lois Capps (CA-23) Rep. Howard "Buck" McKeon (CA-25) Rep. David Dreier (CA-26) Rep. Brad Sherman (CA-27) Rep. Howard Berman (CA-28) Rep. Adam Schiff (CA-29) Rep. Henry Waxman (CA-30) Rep. Xavier Becerra (CA-31) Rep. Hilda Solis (CA-32) Rep. Diane Watson (CA-33) Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-34) Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-35) Rep. Jane Harman (CA-36) Rep. Juanita Millender-McDonald (CA-37) Rep. Grace Napolitano (CA-38) Rep. Linda Sanchez (CA-39) Rep. Jerry Lewis (CA-41) Rep. Joe Baca (CA-43) Rep. Ken Calvert (CA-44) Rep. Mary Bono (CA-45) Rep. Loretta Sanchez (CA-47) Rep. Darrell Issa (CA-49) Rep. Bob Filner (CA-51) Rep. Duncan Hunter (CA-52) Rep. Susan Davis (CA-53) # # #
05.23.2007	Congressman Jim Costa, D- Fresno, will speak on the House floor this afternoon between 5:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m. PST. Costa will join other Members of the fiscally conservative Blue Dog Coalition participating in the debate on the Iraq Resolution now before the House of Representatives. Formed in l995, the Blue Dog Coalition recently succeeded in winning House approval of HR 97, calling for increased fiscal accountability in funding the Iraq war. Costa's speech can be recorded off the C-SPAN coverage of the House of Representatives. # # #
05.23.2007	Congressman Jim Costa will hold mobile office hours in Kings County on Thursday, February 22, 2007. Bilingual staff members will be on hand to assist constituents with problems they are having with Federal agencies. The locations and times of Congressman Costa's mobile office in Kings County are: Hanford Branch Library 401 N. Douty Street, Hanford Time: 10:00 am to 12 noon Corcoran Branch Library 1001-A Chittenden, Corcoran Time: 2:30 pm to 5:00 pm For Further Information Contact Angie Vega at 559-495-1620 # # #
05.23.2007	FRESNO, CA - On Friday, March 2, Congressman Jim Costa, D- Fresno, will be joined by Congressmen Dennis Cardoza, D- Merced, and Devin Nunes, R-Tulare, along with California Dept. of Food and Agriculture Secretary A.G. Kawamura at a Listening Session in Fresno hosted by Costa on the Bush Administration's proposals for the 2007 Farm Bill. The Listening Session will be held in the Fresno City Council Chambers from 10:00 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. "The 2007 Farm Bill will be one of the most important pieces of legislation to come out of the 110th Congress," Costa said. "It is imperative that the Central Valley agriculture industry make its view heard." "Needless to say, the 2007 Farm Bill will have a major impact on our agriculture community and the broader economy in the Central Valley for many years to come," said Cardoza. "As we begin the process of writing this historic legislation, I look forward to hearing directly from Central Valley farmers and stakeholders." "The Farm Bill is the single most important issue facing agriculture this year. Our nation's rural economy and the competitiveness of our farmers are at stake. I am looking forward to working with other members of the California delegation to make certain California's interests are protected as we move forward with Farm Bill reauthorization," said Nunes. "This is the opportunity to create a 21st Century Farm Bill that is California friendly and reflects the diverse needs of the state," said Kawamura. "I look forward to working with Rep. Costa and the entire California congressional delegation to bring about a US Farm Bill that recognizes the importance of California agriculture." The Listening Session will offer the opportunity for a frank and open discussion of a broad range of issues related to the 2007 Farm Bill. Who: Rep. Jim Costa, D-Fresno Rep. Dennis Cardoza, D-Merced Rep. Devin Nunes, R-Tulare A.G Kawamura, CFDA Secretary What: Listening Session on 2007 Farm Bill When: Friday, March 2, 10:00 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Where: Fresno City Council Chambers, Fresno City Hall 2600 Fresno Street, Fresno # # #
05.23.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C - Congressman Jim Costa, D-Fresno, has joined three other California House members from rural counties in calling on the state transportation commission to fund rural projects. Costa, along with Reps. Lois Capps, D- Santa Barbara; George Radanovich, R-Mariposa; and Mike Thompson, D-Napa, have sent a letter to Marian Bergeson, Chair of the California Transportation Commission calling for funding for rural projects. "We are concerned by reports that distribution of project funding may not include congestion projects in rural areas of the state," the letter stated. The Highway 198 four-lane expressway in Kings County is one of the projects noted in the letter as having been under consideration for decades.
05.23.2007	Fresno, CA - Congressman Jim Costa, D-Fresno, issued a call to all high school students and amateur artists living in the 20th Congressional District to participate in this year's Congressional Art Competition. Each spring, the U.S. House of Representatives sponsors the Congressional Art Competition. "This is an opportunity for high school students with artistic talent to showcase and receive national recognition for their work," Costa said. The winning entry from each congressional district will be displayed in the corridor tunnel of the Cannon House Office Building leading to the U.S. Capitol for one year. Last year's winning piece came from Lemoore High School's Jessica Palmer; who submitted a black and white photograph entitled "End of the Trail" which continues to be on display in Washington today. The Congressional Art Competition is open to all high school students residing in the 20th Congressional District. The 20th Congressional District includes parts of Fresno and Kern Counties and all of Kings County. All entries must be submitted no later than March 16, 2007. For competition guidelines and student entry forms, please visit www.house.gov/costa. For further information or details, please contact Congressman Costa's office at (559) 495-1620 or at (661) 869-1620. # # #
05.23.2007	FRESNO, CA - On Friday, March 2, Congressman Jim Costa, D-Fresno, will be joined by Congressman Devin Nunes, R-Tulare, along with California Department of Agriculture A.G. Kawamura at a Listening Session regarding the 2007 Farm Bill. The Listening Session will provide an overview of the Bush Administration's proposals for the Farm Bill and industry stakeholders with the opportunity to discuss issues related to the Farm Bill and its impact on the Central Valley. Reps. Costa and Nunes and Secretary Kawamura will available to comment prior to the Listening Session. WHO: Rep. Jim Costa, D-Fresno Rep. Devin Nunes, R-Tulare A.G. Kawamura, CFDA Secretary WHAT: Listening Session on 2007 Farm Bill WHEN: Friday, March 2, 10:00 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. WHERE: Fresno City Council Chambers, Fresno City Hall 2600 Fresno Street, Fresno ###
05.23.2007	BAKERSFIELD, CA - On Friday, March 16, Congressman Jim Costa, D-Fresno, will be joined by Congressman Kevin McCarthy, R-Bakersfield at a Listening Session regarding the 2007 Farm Bill. The Listening Session will provide an overview of the Bush Administration's proposals for the Farm Bill and industry stakeholders with the opportunity to discuss issues related to the Farm Bill and its impact on the Central Valley. Reps. Costa and McCarthy will available to comment prior to the Listening Session. WHO: Rep. Jim Costa, D-Fresno Rep. Kevin McCarthy, R-Bakersfield WHAT: Listening Session on 2007 Farm Bill WHEN: Friday, March 16, 9:00 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. WHERE: Kern County Board of Supervisors Chambers 1115 Truxtun Avenue, 5th Floor Bakersfield, CA 93301 ###
05.23.2007	Washington, DC - Congressman Tom Lantos (D-CA), chairman of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, today praised the foreign policy acumen and skills of Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA) as he named him the new vice-chair of the Transatlantic Legislators' Dialogue. "Jim Costa's interest in foreign policy is profound, and he makes a great contribution to our work on the Foreign Affairs Committee," Lantos said. "I am convinced that he is the right person to help lead this most important inter-parliamentary exchange program. He will do us all proud." The Transatlantic Legislators' Dialogue brings together members of the U.S. Congress and members of the European Parliament twice a year to discuss issues ranging from terrorism to energy independence, immigration, education and how to expand commerce and trade. These exchanges are held on both sides of the Atlantic; the next event is this spring, and will take place in Berlin since Germany currently holds the rotating chairmanship of the European Union. "It is extremely important at this time in our nation's history that the Congress maintain excellent working relationships with the legislatures of our allies," Costa said. "Chairman Lantos' confidence in my ability to contribute to this undertaking is most gratifying. I look forward to representing the Congress in expanding our dialogue with other federal legislative bodies." The grandson of Portuguese immigrants, Costa represents California's 20th Congressional District, located in the heart of the San Joaquin Valley. He was elected to Congress in 2004 following a 24-year career as a member of the California state Legislature. In addition to the House Foreign Affairs Committee, where he is a member of the Subcommittee on the Middle East and South Asia and the Subcommittee on Europe, Costa serves on the House Agriculture Committee and House Natural Resources Committee and chairs the Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources. Costa has wide-ranging experience in exchanging ideas with government leaders from other countries. He met with leaders of Israel, Jordon, Turkey and Iraq, and was a member of the first delegation of the U.S. Congress to meet with Iraqi Prime Minister Maliki after the latter took office. In December 2006 he traveled to Rome to discuss trade policy and its impact on agriculture with leaders of the World Trade Organization. The aim of the Transatlantic Legislators' Dialogue is to strengthen and enhance the level of discourse between European and American legislators. This cooperation aids in the development of shared approaches to a wide array of issues and helps to prevent disputes in sensitive areas before they occur. Topics covered during previous sessions of the TLD include: * Iraq and Afghanistan * Energy Security * Middle East Peace Process and Lebanon * International Terrorism * Iran and North Korea's Nuclear Programs * Immigration * Education * Trade # # #
05.23.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - Majority Leader Steny H. Hoyer (MD) is currently leading a bipartisan Congressional Delegation to Sudan, Egypt, Greece and Germany. Joining him are Congressman John Barrow (D-GA), Congressman G.K. Butterfield (D-NC), Congressman Jim Costa (D-CA), Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Congressman Ray LaHood (R-IL), Congresswoman Barbara Lee (D-CA), Congressman Gregory Meeks (D-NY), Congressman Brad Miller (D-NC), Congressman Jerry Moran (R-KS), and Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL). [The Majority Leader's Office did not release information regarding the CODEL until today due to security concerns.] The Delegation briefly stopped in Athens, Greece, for a dinner with Dora Bakoyannis, Greece's Minister of Foreign Affairs this past Sunday, April 1. The next three days were spent in Sudan. The first day the Delegation went to Juba, in Southern Sudan, where they met with President of Southern Sudan and First Vice President of Sudan Salva Kiir and other Government of Southern Sudan Ministers including Rebecca Garang, who is the Minister for Transportation and the widow of John Garang. Garang was the Vice President of Sudan and the former leader of the rebel Sudan People's Liberation Army. Members also met with the Speaker of Parliament from the Southern Sudan Legislative Assembly, James Wani. The Delegation then accompanied Rebecca Garang to the John Garang Memorial Site, where they paid their respects and signed the memorial book. The Delegation traveled to El Fasher, in North Darfur, the next day. While there, Members visited El Salaam Internally Displaced Persons Camp, and met with the African Union Mission in Sudan (AMIS) Force Commander, Major General Luke Aprezi, at AMIS Headquarters. The delegation also met with UN officials working on the ground, including the UN Mission in Sudan, and the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs. On their final day in Sudan, Members received briefings by non-governmental organizations carrying out humanitarian work in the South and Darfur, rebel leader and Darfur Peace Agreement-signatory Minni Minawi, and African Union Ambassador to Sudan Sam Ibok. The delegation also met with a senior Sudanese Foreign Ministry official. Yesterday, the Delegation was in Egypt, where they had meetings with several Egyptian officials including President Mohammed Hosni Mubarak, Foreign Minister Ahmed Aboul Gheit, and Speaker of the People's Assembly Ahmed Fathy Sorour. The Members discussed Sudan with the officials, as well as other issues. Delegation members also attended an event with Admiral William Fallon, Commander, U.S. Central Command. The final stop for the Delegation is Germany, where they will tour Landstuhl Regional Medical Center and visit with hospitalized servicemembers. "I chose to travel to Sudan as my first trip as Majority Leader because Darfur demands the focus of the entire world" said Hoyer. "Genocide has been committed here, and the violence continues. I wanted to bring a bipartisan delegation to assess ground conditions and send a strong message that the world is watching. It is the government of Sudan's fundamental job, as it is that of any government, to protect all of its people. "I also felt it was important to meet with the President Murbarak of Egypt and other leaders to discuss the crisis in Darfur and encourage them to play a leading role in bringing it to an end," concluded Hoyer. ###
05.23.2007	Delegation Led by Majority Leader Traveled to Region to Bring Attention and Action to Crisis in Darfur Washington - Communications Director to House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, Stacey Bernards, issued the following statement today regarding a misleading wire report that Mr. Hoyer met with a leader of the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt: "Mr. Hoyer led a bipartisan delegation to Sudan and Egypt this past week to bring attention to the humanitarian crisis in Darfur and to ask the Egyptian government to take a leading role in helping the people of Darfur. The delegation included 11 members of Congress, including Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, the Ranking Republican on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. "On Thursday, the U.S. Embassy in Egypt asked the delegation to participate in a meeting that day that the embassy had arranged with the Speaker of the Egyptian Parliament. The delegation expected to meet one-on-one with the Speaker, however, the Speaker had invited about a dozen members of the Parliament, including Mohammad Saad al-Katatni. The delegation discussed various issues with the members of Parliament, but the focus was the crisis in Darfur . "The delegation was also invited by the Ambassador to his home to a reception with about 200 people, including Members of Parliament, members of various political parties and civil society groups, such as the American Chamber of Commerce in Egypt. Mr. Hoyer spoke briefly with Mohammad Saad al-Katatni at the reception, as he did with the other guests in attendance. "However, the bipartisan delegation, including Mr. Hoyer, did not have personal meetings with Mohammad Saad al-Katatni." ###
05.23.2007	Fresno, CA- On Wednesday, April 11, Congressman Jim Costa, D-Fresno, will be joined by California State Attorney General Jerry Brown and San Joaquin Valley leaders at two separate events in Fresno. At the first event, Costa and Brown will discuss the Agricultural Crime Technology Information and Operations Network (ACTION) Project which focuses on agricultural crime. The second event, Central Valley Latino Leaders Forum, will be a discussion of rural crime in our communities. The ACTION Project is funded through the U.S. Department of Justice, Bureau of Justice Assistance, to provide an efficient and method for anticipating, preventing, and prosecuting agricultural crime in California. "In order to address rural crime in the San Joaquin Valley it is imperative that we collaborate on efforts to create viable solutions to these community concerns," said Costa. Brown said: "It is critical for the Attorney General's Office to work closely with local law enforcement to fight rural crime." Who: Congressman Jim Costa, D-Fresno California State Attorney General Jerry Brown What: Rural Crime Task Force Luncheon When: Wednesday, April 11 12 noon to 1:30 pm Where: The Downtown Club 2120 Kern Street Fresno, CA 93721 **Please Note: Media will not have access to the meeting room. All interviews can be conducted after the luncheon. Who: Congressman Jim Costa, D-Fresno California State Attorney General Jerry Brown Fresno City Councilmember Henry T. Perea, District 7 What: Central Valley Latino Leaders Forum When: Wednesday, April 11 4:00 pm to 5:00 pm Where: Fresno City Hall, Council Chambers 2600 Fresno Street Fresno, CA 93721 **Media is welcome to attend this session. # # #
05.23.2007	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) announced an AmeriCorps grant awarded to California's 20th Congressional District. "I would like to congratulate Fresno County Economic Opportunities Commission on receiving this AmeriCorps grant and thank them for their service to the Central Valley," Congressman Costa said. AmeriCorps members serve in hundreds of nonprofit organizations, public agencies and community organizations in rural and urban communities throughout the nation. In addition, AmeriCorps participants also receive an education award for their service. The Fresno County Economic Opportunities Commission will receive an AmeriCorps grant of $621,143, which will provide for approximately 40 AmeriCorps participants. These AmeriCorps members serve as Public Safety Ambassadors in Fresno's five policing districts and provide a variety of services to the community. They will also assist with the expansion and coordination of the city's Neighborhood Watch programs, help eradicate graffiti and assist with crime analysis. Some AmeriCorps participants will serve as park patrols and recreation leaders to create safer parks and to help expand and coordinate after-school activities for the city. "This exceptional program benefits the community and the program participants. We welcome AmeriCorps participants' great service to Fresno," Costa concluded. #
05.23.2007	FRESNO - Congressman Jim Costa will be traveling in the district on Friday, May 6, 2005. The Congressman will speak on Friday from 12:00 pm-1:30 pm at the Bakersfield Chamber of Commerce Luncheon, which takes place at the DoubleTree Hotel, 3100 Camino Del Rio Court, Bakersfield. Following this event the Congressman will be on site at Wayside Elementary School, 1000 Ming Avenue, Bakersfield, from 3:00 pm-3:30 pm. Congressman Costa will listen to teachers' perspectives on education issues. He will be available to the media following each of these events. Please call for information or interviews. Kherstin Khan: 559-495-1620 Jack Hall: 559-930-7956 #
05.23.2007	FRESNO, CA - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) led a bipartisan effort to help retain the only permanently stationed Air National Guard fighter unit in California. The air base is the 144th Fighter Wing, headquartered in Fresno. Congressman Costa sent a letter to Secretary Rumsfeld stressing the necessary and important role the 144th Fighter Wing plays not only in the Valley, but also in California. Costa's letter was also signed by Valley Congressmen Devin Nunes (CA-21) and George Radanovich (CA-19). The text of the letter follows. Dear Secretary Rumsfeld: We are writing to urge that the 144th Fighter Wing stationed at the City of Fresno airport not be included in the 2005 round of Base Realignment and Closure ("BRAC"). The 144th Fighter Wing is a key component of California's homeland defense. The 144th Fighter Wing is the only permanently stationed Air National Guard fighter unit in California. It maintains 18 F16 aircraft, and three F16s are on constant alert to provide immediate homeland defense of California. Effective and timely defense of California requires stationing these aircraft in a centrally located area like Fresno. These interceptors can reach key portions of California within minutes, providing the people of California homeland defense, air coverage and protection. We believe that moving the 144th Fighter Wing would jeopardize the homeland security interests of our constituents and the people of California. Removal of the 144th Fighter Wing would also have a devastating effect on the Central Valley. As you know, President Bush issued Executive Order 13173 to create an Interagency Task Force on the Economic Development of the Central San Joaquin Valley. The Task Force was chartered to coordinate federal agencies and resources to advance the economic development of the Central San Joaquin Valley. As an appointed member of that Task Force, you can appreciate the economic problems that this area already faces, as the City of Fresno and its airport qualify both as Federal Empowerment Zones and California Enterprise Zones. The Central Valley receives $1900 less per capita than the rest of the United States in federal tax dollars returned to local communities. In 2003, 21.8 percent of the citizens in Fresno County lived below the poverty level. The 144th Fighter Wing provides local economy with 375 full-time jobs and 627 part-time Air National Guard jobs. Its presence contributes at least $28 million dollars in direct and indirect economic value to the Fresno region. This figure is based primarily on payroll and does not include the sizable economic value of what the Wing purchases in the local community. Loss of this Wing would be a critical blow to our region. The Central Valley is probably the ideal location for reservists in the California Air National Guard. Reservists can afford to live in the Central Valley while they cannot afford to live in many other areas of California. The local Wing commander estimates that 85% of his reservists live within 30 minutes of Fresno. Moving the 144th Fighter Wing would likely result, we understand, in the loss of 30% of the reservists in the unit, a terrible blow for a unit providing active Homeland Security. As you know, many National Guard units are facing shortfalls in recruitment. We understand that the 144th Fighter Wing is currently leading the entire state of California in National Guard recruitment, in part because of the very favorable attitude of the people in the Fresno area toward military service. Removing the 144th Fighter Wing from Fresno would likely harm future retention rates for the unit. In addition, the 144th Fighter Wing has developed joint training missions with Naval and Army aircraft located nearby. Loss of the Wing from Fresno would undermine that ongoing joint training. Please note that the Fresno airport complex also has other multi-service units operating on site, such as the 1106th Aviation Classification Repair Activity Depot (AVCRAD), 185th Quartermaster Unit (185th QM Unit), and the 40th Aviation Brigade. The arguments to protect the 144th Fighter Wing apply similarly with each of these facilities. Their loss would approximately double the economic impact on the local community of losing the 144th Air Wing alone. Finally, we are told that the Air Force has invested nearly $50 million in fixed facilities at the Fresno Airport for the 144th Wing. If relocated, these facilities and investments will be wasted, and the Department will likely incur additional construction costs associated with new or refurbished facilities elsewhere. In fact, the Department of Defense's annual cost in payments to the city for the lease of the Wing property at the Fresno airport is only $56,868 annually. This low lease obligation, as compared with the potential relocation costs of tens of millions of dollars, further underlines the conclusion that Fresno is an ideal location for California's only permanent Air National Guard fighter wing. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, Congressman Jim Costa Congressman Devin Nunes Congressman George Radanovich
05.23.2007	FRESNO, CA - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) led the effort to help retain the 20th District's Lemoore Naval Air Station; headquartered in Lemoore, California. Congressman Costa sent a letter to Secretary Rumsfeld stressing the necessary and vital role Lemoore Naval Air Station plays not only in the Valley, but also throughout the state of California. The text of the letter follows. Dear Secretary Rumsfeld: I urge that Lemoore Naval Air Station (NAS), located in Kings and Fresno Counties, California not be included in the 2005 round of Base Realignment and Closure ("BRAC"). Lemoore NAS is the tenth largest military base in the State of California. It is home to the Strike Fighter Wing U.S. Pacific Fleet, which provides combat ready strike fighter squadrons trained to conduct carrier-based, all weather, attack, fighter and support missions for the Pacific Fleet. Presently, ten F/A-18 fleet units are based at Lemoore NAS. Additionally, Lemoore NAS is home to the Strike Fighter Weapons School. The mission of this installation is to provide formal standardized graduate level training covering every aspect of FA-18 weapons employment. This nationally important program helps the Navy to guarantee the combat readiness of the Strike Fighter Community by providing training in mission planning, tactics, weapons systems and ordnance handling to ensure every squadron is prepared to enter any combat contingency and win. Removal of Lemoore NAS would also have a devastating effect on the Central Valley. Lemoore NAS provides the local economy with 5,364 military jobs and 799 civilian jobs. In 2003, Kings County had an unemployment rate of 14.3%. Additionally, 21.8% of the citizens of Fresno County lived below the poverty level. Loss of Lemoore would be a critical blow to the region. Lemoore is a critical underpinning to the local economy. As you know, President Bush issued Executive Order 13173 to create an Interagency Task Force on the Economic Development of the Central San Joaquin Valley. The Task Force was chartered to coordinate federal agencies and resources to advance the economic development of the Central San Joaquin Valley. As an appointed member of that Task Force, you can appreciate the economic problems that this area faces, as the City of Fresno and its airport qualify both as Federal Empowerment Zones and California Enterprise Zones. The Central Valley receives $1900 less per capita than the rest of the United States in federal tax dollars returned to local communities. In addition, Lemoore NAS conducts joint training missions with Army and National Guard aircraft located nearby. Loss of the Lemoore would undermine that ongoing joint training. It should be noted that in the previous four BRAC rounds, the Commission directed Lemoore to receive in the 1991 and 1993 round. This base continues to enjoy no encroachment issues, and widespread local support. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, Jim Costa Member of Congress
05.23.2007	Co-authored: Congressman Richard Pombo (CA-11), Congressman George Radanovich (CA-19), Congressman Dennis Cardoza (CA-18), Congressman Devin Nunes (CA-21) and Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) We've heard our relationship referred to as "extraordinary" and "unusual." Well, we believe it is. We are Members of Congress from the Central Valley and we work together on more issues than not. Is this typical for Republicans and Democrats? Unfortunately, no. Typical for a few guys from the Central Valley? The answer - yes. We realize it's rare to see any true bi-partisan work being accomplished lately in Washington. Unfortunately, the majority of Congress' efforts are being consumed in political battles instead of focusing on genuine problems. As the people we represent understand, we have a long, strong record of working together for the Valley on issues important to all of us who live here. As you know too well, California's economy has been buffeted by many challenges over the years. Increased traffic and congestion coupled with high gas prices are almost too much for our residents to take. With gas and oil prices constantly on the rise, most agree on the need to have a national energy and transportation plan that will help with the cost of fuel, shave time off commutes and help rebuild the economy. In Congress, we've worked together and passed the Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (TEA-LU) containing funding for projects running through our districts. Traffic jams we face daily have become nightmares. They represent time stolen from watching our kids' soccer games, having dinner with our families or any number of other activities that are more important than waiting in traffic. Anything we as legislators can do to alleviate traffic congestion will build the quality of life for residents and commuters just passing through the area. This effort deserves more than just a representative looking out for the people in his or her jurisdiction. Just as traffic moves from one district to another - we realize this is everyone's problem, and we should all be committed to the solution. Years ago, our Nation's leaders had the foresight to construct massive dams and reservoirs to provide water supplies to a thirsty western United Sates. But as times have changed, our nation's infrastructure has not kept pace. Here in California, no federal water storage projects have been built in a generation--while the population has increased by nearly 15 million. In the Central Valley alone, there are 1,600 miles of levees, various water storage areas and reservoirs that can be used in times of flooding. Unfortunately California's flood protection system is an aging infrastructure with major design deficiencies and it has been weakened by deferred maintenance and lack of funds. Although states and localities are trying to meet these needs through various means, the federal government can help by encouraging water technologies, maintain in current projects and building more storage. We have taken steps forward in funding through several bills within Congress, such as the recently passed CALFED. We will continue to look for avenues to help with funding for levees and overall water quality. Many repairs and maintenance projects require millions of dollars to be spent on environmental reviews, and mitigation for environmental impacts and delay these much needed repairs. We will continue to work through a process that would streamline such requests which would allow protection to be provided in a much more efficient fashion. Another important issue we are working on is High Risk Pest Detection, making sure we are meeting the needs of many farmers and ranchers in the Valley. Family farms produce the safest, most affordable food supply in the world and the need to protect goods greater than ever. With the increasing movement of people and commerce, our environment and food supply is at serious risk from the accidental or intentional introduction of exotic and invasive species. We are working together on pest prevention to provide the greatest level of protection against plant and animal pests and diseases that can adversely impact human health, commerce, and the Nation's precious natural resources. We are sure some in Congress and elsewhere dislike watching Republicans and Democrats work together on common goals, or don't believe it's actually possible. After all, Washington is famous for its examples of partisan politics. However, we Members from the Valley pride ourselves on our long history of working together to make a difference in the lives of people we represent. Of course, we don't agree on everything, but we don't let that get in our way. At the end of the day, we still think we've got something pretty special.
05.23.2007	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Costa responded to the unfortunate news that the 144th Fighter Wing, which is located in Fresno, has been included on the initial list of this year's round of base closures. "I respectfully disagree with the Department of Defense's decision to close the 144th. The 144th provides a great service to the nation and community. I will be very active in the review process and will do everything I can to reverse this decision," stated Costa. Congressman Costa received the information this morning and stressed that is not a final decision. "While this list is the Base Realignment and Closure Commissioners' recommendations, the final decision will not be made for several months. Just as I have been very active in contacting the Department of Defense and President Bush before the decision was made, I will continue to do everything possible to keep the 144th open," Costa said. Over the last several months, Congressman Costa has contacted Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfield and President Bush several times regarding the important work that the144th does for the Central Valley and the protection the base provides the West Coast. The 144th Fighter Wing is a key component to California's homeland defense. It is the only permanently stationed Air National Guard fighter unit in California. "I believe that moving the 144th Fighter Wing would jeopardize the homeland security interests of the Central Valley and all people in California. I strongly oppose the Commissioners' decision to close the 144th," concluded Costa. # # #
05.23.2007	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Costa responded to the initial list of this year's round of base closures. Both Lemoore Naval Air Station and the 144th Fighter Wing received a net gain according to the Department of Defense recommendations for base closures and realignments. Lemoore currently has 5,364 military personnel and 799 civilian personnel. Under the department's recommendations, Lemoore will lose 39 military personnel. However, the base will have a net gain of 5 military personnel and 35 civilian personnel, for a total of 40 people. The Base Realignment and Closure Commission recommends moving the intermediate and depot maintenance workload, which is currently at Naval Air Depot North Island in San Diego, to Lemoore NAS. The newly merged facility will be named the "Fleet Readiness Center West." The Fresno Air Terminal (144th) currently has 375 full time personnel and 627 part-time personnel. The base will gain 57 military personnel and 254 civilian personnel, for a total gain of 311 people. The commission recommends retiring 15 F16s at the 144th. In addition, the 188th Fighter Wing will relocate seven F16s to the Fresno Air Terminal from Fort Smith in Arkansas. Also, the 944th Fighter Wing at Reno-Tahoe International Airport Air Guard Station will distribute 11 F16s to the 144th. The details regarding how the remaining net gain will be employed has not yet been made clear by the Commission. Congressman Costa is available for comment. Please call the numbers below to set up an interview. Kherstin Khan: 559-495-1620 Jack Hall: 559-930-7956 # # #
05.23.2007	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Costa responded to the initial list of this year's round of base closures. Both Lemoore Naval Air Station and the 144th Fighter Wing received a net gain according to the Department of Defense recommendations for base closures and realignments. "I would like to thank Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfield and the Base Realignment and Closure Commission for understanding the crucial role that Lemoore and the 144th currently play in maintaining America's security both home and abroad, and for recognizing the important role they will play in the future," stated Costa. Over the last several months, Congressman Costa has contacted the Secretary of Defense and President Bush several times regarding the important work that Lemoore Naval Air Station and the144th do for the Central Valley and the protection the bases provide for the West Coast. "In addition to Lemoore and the 144th protecting our homeland security, these bases also provide secondary benefits to the local economy. Both of these bases receiving a net gain this is great news for the Central Valley," Costa concluded. Congressman Costa is available for comment. Please call the numbers below to set up an interview. Kherstin Khan: 559-495-1620 Jack Hall: 559-930-7956 # # #
05.23.2007	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Costa responded to the initial list of this year's round of base closures. Both Edwards Air Force Base and China Lake received a net gain according to the Department of Defense recommendations for base closures and realignments. "I would like to thank Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfield and the Base Realignment and Closure Commission for understanding the crucial role that Edwards and China Lake currently play in maintaining America's security both home and abroad, and for recognizing the important role they will play in the future," stated Costa. Over the last several months, Congressman Costa has contacted the Secretary of Defense and President Bush several times regarding the important work that these bases do for the Central Valley and the protection the bases provide for the West Coast. "In addition to Edwards and China Lake protecting our homeland security, these bases also provide secondary benefits to the local economy. Both of these bases receiving a net gain this is great news for the Central Valley," Costa concluded. Congressman Costa is available for comment. Please call the numbers below to set up an interview. Kherstin Khan: 559-495-1620 Jack Hall: 559-930-7956 # # #
05.23.2007	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Costa responded to the unfortunate news that Lemoore Naval Air Station (Lemoore NAS), which is located in Fresno and Kings Counties, has been included on the initial list of this year's round of base closures. "I respectfully disagree with the Department of Defense's decision to close Lemoore Naval Air Station. The base provides a great service to the nation and community. I will be very active in the review process and will do everything I can to reverse this decision," stated Costa. Congressman Costa received the information this morning and stressed that is not a final decision. "While this list is the Base Realignment and Closure Commissioners' recommendations, the final decision will not be made for several months. Just as I have been very active in contacting the Department of Defense and President Bush before the decision was made, I will continue to do everything possible to keep Lemoore open," Costa said. Over the last several months, Congressman Costa has contacted Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfield and President Bush several times regarding the important work that Lemoore NAS does for the Central Valley and the protection the base provides the West Coast. Lemoore Naval Air Station is a key component to the Navy's Pacific Fleet operations. The base is home to ten combat ready strike fighter squadrons trained to conduct carrier-based, all weather, attack, fighter and support missions for the Pacific Fleet. In addition, Lemoore NAS conducts joint training missions with Army and National Guard aircraft located nearby. "I believe that moving Lemoore would jeopardize the homeland security interests of the Central Valley and all people in California. I strongly oppose the Commissioners' decision to close this base," concluded Costa. # # #
05.23.2007	Cites Bipartisan Coordination as Road to Success WASHINGTON, D.C. - Traffic-choked Highway 99 is getting some much needed relief thanks to six Central Valley congressmen who joined forces in a bipartisan effort. Federal help for the beleaguered state highway was included in a federal transportation bill that was passed today and is expected to be signed by the President. The $286 billion Transportation Equity Act includes provisions that make the highway eligible to compete for an exclusive pool of federal road money. It also makes the highway eligible to become a federal interstate and get maintenance and improvement money on an annual basis. The provisions are aimed at improving traffic flow and safety by widening a 275-mile stretch of the highway between Bakersfield and Sacramento. The lawmakers involved in the effort include Reps. Bill Thomas, Richard Pombo, Devin Nunes, George Radanovich, Dennis Cardoza and Jim Costa who made the following joint statement: "This is a historic opportunity for Highway 99, which has been neglected far too long. We look forward to seeing the state and federal governments quickly begin negotiations to bring the roadway into the federal interstate system with the improvements that new federal dollars can provide. Our strong bipartisan cooperation has paved the way for Highway 99 to be designated as a Federal Interstate. "This is a huge win for the Valley in terms of creating jobs, alleviating traffic congestion, improving air quality and providing a much more efficient transit system with increased lanes and better road conditions, without negatively impacting future federal support for our region's transportation needs. As a unified voice we came together to fight for a level playing field for the citizens of the Central Valley of California--and we won." Signed, Rep. Bill Thomas Rep. Richard Pombo Rep. George Radanovich Rep. Devin Nunes Rep. Dennis Cardoza Rep. Jim Costa ###
05.23.2007	Fresno, CA - On Friday, August 12, 2005, Congressman Jim Costa will welcome U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Mike Johanns to Fresno to hear from Valley producers about the status of the 2007 Farm Bill. "We are pleased to have the Secretary here for several hours to hear about the concerns and challenges that face California agriculture," said Costa. "In the Central Valley, we have a diversity of agriculture and experience in challenging world markets unlike anywhere else in the nation. It is important we state our concerns clearly and make certain the Secretary understands the significance of our role in ag production," Costa stated. "I also plan to convey to Secretary Johanns my close personal and working relationship with other area legislators. When it comes to speaking up for Valley agricultural interests, Congressmen Radanovich, Cardoza and Nunes and I have developed a bipartisan approach in order to create the strongest advocacy we possible can for Valley agriculture," Costa concluded. Costa will be available for remarks at 4:00pm. MEDIA ADVISORY: What: Comments from Congressman Costa regarding Secretary Johanns' visit to Fresno When: Friday, August 12, 2005 at 4pm Where: Fresno County Fairgrounds, Junior Exhibits Building, Ventura and Chance Avenues Contact: Kherstin Khan 559-495-1620
05.23.2007	Fresno, CA - Today, Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) released the following statement regarding the rescue and relief efforts in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. "Our hearts go out to the people of Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama. For the people of our Valley, as for the rest of the nation, our thoughts and prayers are with everyone affected by Hurricane Katrina. During this time of need, we must come together as a nation to help our fellow Americans," Costa stated. If you would like more information on how you can help, please contact the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or the American Red Cross. Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA): www.fema.gov (202) 566-1600 American Red Cross: www.redcross.org 800-HELP-NOW (435-7669) English 800-257-7575 Spanish ###
05.23.2007	FRESNO, CA- Congressman Jim Costa, D-Fresno, will hold press availability today at 8:00 p.m. in the main passenger terminal at the Fresno-Yosemite International Airport. Costa will also hold press availability tomorrow at 3:30 p.m. outside of Salon 2000 at 2013 W. Bullard Avenue in Fresno. The Fresno lawmaker will be available to comment on the Bipartisan agreement on comprehensive immigration reform announced by leaders in the Senate and the President.
05.23.2007	WASHINGTON, DC-Today, Congressman Jim Costa, D-Fresno, wrote to the Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, Congressman Ike Skelton, D-Missouri, asking that the Armed Services Committee investigate the body armor used by the men and women in Iraq and Afghanistan. Currently, men and women serving in the military are required to use Interceptor body armor, but a potentially better armor, Dragon Skin, may provide enhanced ballistics protection. "Our men and women in uniform deserve the best and most cutting-edge body armor available to them," said Costa. "While the Interceptor armor has been effective, Dragon Skin may be the best available armor on the market. I am hopeful the Committee can work with the Department of Defense to find the best available armor for the military." In April 2007, Costa joined many of his colleagues and sent a letter to Department Defense Secretary Robert Gates, and the Acting Secretary of the Army Pete Green regarding the ongoing debate surrounding Dragon Skin body armor and Interceptor body armor. He asked that an unbiased, external investigation determine the most effective body armor available for the men and women in uniform. Recent news reports conducted an independent side-by-side test of both Dragon Skin and Interceptor Body armor to determine which armor performed better. These tests were conducted at room temperature, and used a variety of ammunition. While the Interceptor did well during these tests, the tests showed more bullet penetration and the armor did not protect well against body trauma. Overall, Dragon Skin performed much better than Interceptor body armor. Dragon Skin is made by Pinnacle Armor, located in Fresno, California. Pinnacle Armor specializes in armor protection against ballistics and explosives, as well as facility protection.
05.18.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - Pointing out the continued patience of the United States' beef and industry and Congress, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) today introduced legislation calling for "beefed up" restrictions on Japanese beef imports until fair and even-handed trade resumes. Urging fellow members of the House to join him in "sending a strong message to Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi," who will be visiting the U.S. next week; Costa introduced HR 5696, which will prohibit the importation of Japanese beef until U.S. beef is allowed to be exported into Japan. In a letter sent to fellow Beef Caucus members, Costa referred to the "overwhelming scientific evidence that U.S. beef remains the safest and best in the world." Those concerned, the Fresno lawmaker noted, "even went one step further this week and entered into an agreement that includes unprecedented inspections of U.S. processors by Japanese Officials." Costa said, "Despite the compromises the U.S. beef industry and Congress have made, Japan remains ambiguous on setting a date upon which to resume trade." "While Japan has had 32 reported cases of Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE), choice cuts of Japanese beef continue to be sold in the U.S.," Costa argued, "yet, we have no assurance if and when beef trade will resume." # # #
05.18.2007	FRESNO, CA - Pointing out the need for local housing development, Congressman Jim Costa (D - Fresno) announced today that the 20th Congressional District will receive over $4.5 million in Capital Fund grants from the U. S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). "Each year, public housing authorities all over the Valley benefit from the Capital Funds provided by HUD," Costa stated. The funds are provided for urban housing development program improvements and for modernization purposes. "This grant gives local housing authorities the resources to upgrade existing housing complexes including purchasing necessary appliances such as refrigerators and stoves," Costa explained. The City of Fresno and the County of Fresno are two of four selected HUD grant recipients in the 20th District and will receive $1, 772, 419 and $2, 121, 853 respectively. "There is a basic need for improvement in urban housing and development in the Valley," Costa concluded, "and these funds will allow our local Housing Authority leaders to continue to advance housing development programs throughout the community." # # #
05.18.2007	FRESNO, CA - Pointing out the need for local housing development, Congressman Jim Costa (D - Fresno) announced today that the 20th Congressional District will receive over $4.5 million in Capital Fund grants from the U. S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). "Each year, public housing authorities all over the Valley benefit from the Capital Funds provided by HUD," Costa stated. The funds are provided for urban housing development program improvements and for modernization purposes. "This grant gives local housing authorities the resources to upgrade existing housing complexes including purchasing necessary appliances such as refrigerators and stoves," Costa explained. The City of Wasco is one of four selected HUD grant recipients in the 20th District and will receive $36, 502. "There is a basic need for improvement in urban housing and development in the Valley," Costa concluded, "and these funds will allow our local Housing Authority leaders to continue to advance housing development programs throughout the community." # # #
05.18.2007	FRESNO, CA -Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) announced today that the Lamont Elementary School District will receive over $300,000 in funds from the United States Department of Education (DOE) Literacy and School Libraries Program. The funds will be used to better equip and enhance the Lamont School Library. "The educational needs of low-income and rural areas such as Lamont continue to grow. These funds will enable the Lamont Elementary School District to realize their goal of providing the best possible educational resources for their students" Congressman Costa explained. The DOE Literacy and School Libraries Program grant is provided to various school libraries in order to improve students' reading and academic achievement. The goal of the Lamont School Library is to increase students' and teachers' access to adequate and up-to-date school library resources and materials, as well as provide sufficient professional and technical training to school library and media specialists. "The improvements that we will soon see at the Lamont School Library will enhance the information literacy and thinking skills of students. It will also advance the Lamont Elementary School District as it will provide students, teachers and parents an access to the library system outside of school. As our students progress academically, the growth of the community will undeniably follow," Costa concluded. # # #
05.18.2007	Fresno, CA -Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) announced today that the Fresno Art Museum will receive the Museums of America grant in the amount of $149,176 from the Institute of Museum and Library Services. "The Museums of America grant supports hundreds of educational programs and the advancement of community partnerships of museums across the country. This grant will allow the Fresno Art Museum to create lasting relationships with the community while they continue to expand the programs and projects they currently have," Congressman Costa explained. The Institute of Museum and Library Services provides Museums for America grants to help strengthen museum services throughout the country. Funds are used to encourage cultural tourism, the digitization of thousands of museum collections and other technological ventures, as well as the establishment of numerous educational projects and services. The goal of the Fresno Art Museum is to conduct outreach campaigns in the community and to enrich the museum's relationship with its Spanish-speaking guests. It aims to enhance the experience of museum guests by creating more accessible web pages, high-quality programming and by exhibiting films and art showcases from Latin Artists. # # #
05.18.2007	FRESNO, CA - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced today that the Fresno Interdenominational Refugee Ministries operated by the Office of Refugee Resettlement will receive $180,000 in funding from the United States Department of Health and Human Services. "With the Central Valley receiving 2,400 refugees over the last two years, it is important to provide these newly arrived refugees services that will help them get started in living in the in the United States" Congressman Costa explained. The Services for Recently Arrived Refugees grant will be used to provide the teaching of vocational skills and English as a Second Language classes to Hmong refugees. The grant will further assist the refugees in employment, transportation, housing, and green card status adjustment. The goal of the program is to educate these individuals with the skills to live successfully within American society. "This grant will allow the Interdenominational Refugee Ministries the chance to continue their efforts in providing refugees the opportunity to further improve their lives," Costa concluded. # # #
05.18.2007	FRESNO, CA - Congressman Jim Costa (D - Fresno) announced today he will host a grant workshop to acquaint non-profit organizations and local governments with federal and private funding opportunities. Agencies providing information include the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Fresno Regional Foundation and the American Humanics Program at California State University, Fresno. The workshop will be held on Thursday, August 24, at the Economic Opportunities Commission Board Room in downtown Fresno from 9:00 a.m. to noon. "The workshop aims to provide a better understanding of the federal grants process and show local leaders how to increase their chances of securing funding," Costa said, noting that the workshop will provide information on grant resources and examples of successful grant proposals. The workshop is free and open to the public. Those who plan to attend are encouraged to register with Fabiola Gonzalez in Congressman Costa's Fresno District Office at (559) 495-1620 or via e-mail at '); document.write(addy_text64237); document.write('<\/a>'); //-->\n fabiola.gonzalez@mail.house.gov '); //--> This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. '); //--> . # # #
05.18.2007	BAKERSFIELD, CA - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced today he will host a grant workshop to acquaint non-profit organizations and local governments with federal and private funding opportunities. Agencies providing information include the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Kern County Community Foundation and the Office of Grants, Research and Sponsored Programs at California State University, Bakersfield. The workshop will be held on Tuesday, August 22, at the Kern County Public Service Building in downtown Bakersfield from 9:30a.m. to 12:30p.m. "The workshop aims to provide a better understanding of the federal grants process and show local leaders how to increase their chances of securing funding," Costa said, noting that the workshop will provide information on grant resources and examples of successful grant proposals. The workshop is free and open to the public. Those who plan to attend are encouraged to register with Nicole Villaruz in Congressman Costa's Bakersfield District Office at (661) 869-1620 or via e-mail at \n This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. " href="mailto: \n This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. "> '); document.write(addy28287); document.write('<\/a>'); //-->\n nicole.villaruz@mail.house.gov '); //--> This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. '); //--> . # # #
05.18.2007	FRESNO, CA - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced today that the Corcoran Joint Unified School District and the city of Corcoran will receive an investment grant from the United States Department of Commerce Economic Development Administration. The grant will be in the amount of $204,660. The funds will be used toward planning and designing a vocational training center. "The development of the vocational center will improve the workforce of Kings County, in return making the region more competitive economically," Costa explained. Residents from all over the community will benefit from having the Educational Job Training Center built on the grounds of Corcoran High School. Workshops and training sessions will be offered during the day, while adults will be able to take advantage of similar classes offered at night to alleviate work schedule conflicts. "Seeing the variety of skills available in this region of the central valley will only attract more employers, and will serve as a foundation for future economic successes that will benefit both families and businesses," Costa concluded. # # #
05.18.2007	FRESNO, CA- Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) announced today that the Fresno Unified School District has been selected to receive $275,000 in funding under the Development and Dissemination Grant Program. The funds will be used towards implementing standards-based arts in elementary and middle school education. "Integrating the arts into education is vital to students learning experiences. These funds will enable students to improve in academic performance, creative, and performing skills," Congressman Costa explained. The Arts in Education Model Development and Dissemination program will integrate the arts in areas such as English instruction, visual and thinking strategies, and modeled and coached arts classroom lessons from Community Arts Specialists. Teachers and Community Arts Specialists will work together to develop standardized lessons integrated with Houghton-Mifflin Reading themes. "While in the program students will have the opportunity to grow in areas such as reading comprehension, literary analysis, and vocabulary. Maintaining these skills will certainly ensure success in their future education and professional career," Costa concluded. # # #
05.18.2007	FRESNO, CA - Congressman Jim Costa is seeking local student artists to compete in the Congressional Art Competition for the Twentieth District of California. The competition is open to ninth through twelfth grade students who live in the 20th Congressional District. The deadline for submission of artwork is Friday, February 24, 2006. Over the summer, the local winner will be invited to the ribbon cutting ceremony in Washington, DC honoring the new entries, which are placed on exhibit at the Nation's Capitol. "This is a great opportunity to showcase the amazing talent of students from the Central Valley," stated Costa. The artwork from student artists nationwide will be displayed in the pedestrian walkway to the nation's Capitol for one year. Interested parties can contact Fabiola González in Congressman Costa's district office for guidelines or any other questions. The Fresno office is located at, 855 ‘M' Street, #940, Fresno, California 93721. Phone: 559-495-1620.
05.18.2007	FRESNO- Congressman Jim Costa, D-Fresno, will hold a press availability today at 1:45 p.m. in the main passenger terminal at the Fresno-Yosemite International Airport. The Fresno lawmaker will be available to comment on his plans for the forthcoming session of the 110th Congress, the passing of President Gerald Ford and other issues. Following the press availability, Congressman Costa will depart for Washington, D.C. where he will be sworn in Thursday for his second term in Congress. # # #
05.18.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Congressman Jim Costa, D-Fresno, today declared his support for legislation being readied for introduction in both the House and Senate aimed at addressing the shortage of agriculture workers. The AgJobs bill, Costa said, would establish a pilot earned adjustment program for agriculture workers, which would help ease the severe worker shortages being experienced by farmers in California and across the nation. "California is the leading agriculture state in the nation and agriculture is the economic engine of the Central Valley," Costa stated, adding, "We must pass AgJOBS legislation that ends the worker shortage." Costa, noting that bipartisan support is important in getting AgJOBS legislation passed, said he was pleased that both Democrats and Republicans had signed on as lead sponsors of both the House and Senate bills. Congressman Howard Berman, a Los Angeles County Democrat, and Utah Republican Chris Cannon are the lead House sponsors of the new AgJOBS bill. Senate sponsors include California's two Senators- Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer, along with Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts, and Republican Larry Craig of Idaho and Mel Martinez of Florida. Costa will be a co-sponsor of the House AgJOBS bill. According to reports, California agriculture suffered as much as a 20 percent shortage of workers in 2006. Summary of the bill follows: Undocumented agriculture workers would be eligible for a "blue card" if they can demonstrate having worked in American agriculture for at least 150 work days over the previous two years. The blue card would entitle the worker to a temporary legal resident status. The total number of blue card would be capped at 1.5 million over a five-year period, and the program would sunset after five years. Blue card holders would be allowed to travel in and out of the United States. The spouses and minor children of blue card workers would be eligible to apply for a blue card if they already live in the United States. This would permit them to work and travel. Blue card holders would be required to work in American agriculture for an additional three years (working at least 150 work days per year) or five years (working at least 100 work days per year), before becoming eligible to apply for a green card to become a permanent legal resident. Before applying for a green card, participants would be required to pay a fine of $500, show that they are current on their taxes, and show that they have not been convicted of any crime that involves bodily injury, the threat of serious bodily injury, or harm to property in excess of $500. Finally, the H2-A Program would be modified so that it realistically responds to agriculture needs. Similar legislation was introduced by Senators Feinstein and Craig in the 109th Congress, but did not pass out in the Senate. # # #
05.18.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Jim Costa, D-Fresno, spoke today on the House floor calling for the passage of H.R. 3, The Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2007. Costa's remarks, as prepared for delivery, follow: "Mr. Speaker: I rise to speak in support of H.R. 3, which would expand stem cell research. "The narrow view of stem cell research espoused by the Administration places unrealistic limitations on the medical research capabilities of this nation. "The Administration's position on this critical issue leaves patients across America without the hope that they can be cured of the effects of a host of medical conditions including, but not limited to Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases and spinal cord injuries. "The conditions may be curable through stem cell research. But we will only find cures if Congress acts to allow full fledged research to take place. "We owe it to the afflicted and their families to put forth our best effort to find cures for these debilitating medical conditions. "I urge the House to put political posturing aside and give hope to patients and their families by passing H.R. 3." # # #
05.18.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Jim Costa, D-Fresno, was selected today as chairman of the Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources of House Natural Resources Committee. Costa's selection was announced by Natural Resources Committee Chairman Nick Rahall, D-WV. Commenting on his Subcommittee chairmanship Costa said, "I believe this will afford us a bipartisan opportunity to address our energy needs. The Subcommittee will play a role in developing a new direction in reducing U.S. dependence on foreign sources of energy." Costa will continue to serve on the Committee's Subcommittee on Water and Power, a membership he sees as important to the development of the Valley's future water policy. "The Central Valley's Congressional delegation is working in conjunction with the Water Institute at California State University, Fresno and Gov. Schwarzenegger's San Joaquin Valley Partnership to develop a regional water plan that will address our future water issues. The Subcommittee on Water and Power will have a role in any federal legislative initiatives that are required to authorize the regional water plan and, as well, the legislation that will implement the San Joaquin River settlement," Costa stated. In addition to his membership on the Natural Resources Committee, Costa is member of the House Agriculture Committee and House Foreign Affairs Committee. As a member of the Agriculture Committee, Costa will serve as a member of two subcommittees, the Subcommittee Livestock, Diary and Poultry and the Subcommittee on Conservation, Credit, Energy and Research. Costs noted that his Agriculture Committee membership is vital to the interests of his district and the Central Valley. "This year we will be reauthorizing the Farm Bill and I look forward to the opportunity to speak to the needs of our agriculture industry, particularly in the area of trade policy," Costa declared. The Fresno lawmaker has also been selected for membership on the House Foreign Affairs Committee and two of its subcommittees, the Subcommittee on the Middle East and South Asia and the Subcommittee on Europe. "These are difficult times for the U.S. in the international arena," Costa declared. He added, "The Foreign Affairs Committee, by exercising its oversight responsibility in a bipartisan manner, can add common sense and consistency to our foreign policy goals." # # #
05.18.2007	FRESNO, CA - In the effort to meet the affordable housing needs of California families Congressman Jim Costa announced today (1/4/06) that the City of Huron will receive $1 million in HOME funds. "Lending a helping hand to those in need is our job as community members," Costa stated. "The California Department of Housing and Community Development's Division of Financial Assistance offers the HOME Partnerships Program to cities and counties that do not receive HOME funds directly from the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development," the Fresno lawmaker explained. The funds received can be used not only for housing rehabilitation for single and multi family projects, but also for new housing construction. Costa concluded, "In the end the beneficiaries of these funds will be lower-income renters and owners."
05.18.2007	FRESNO, CA - In the effort to meet the affordable housing needs of California families Congressman Jim Costa announced today (1/4/06) that the City of Wasco will receive $1 million in HOME funds. "Lending a helping hand to those in need is our job as community members," Costa stated. "The California Department of Housing and Community Development's Division of Financial Assistance offers the HOME Partnerships Program to cities and counties that do not receive HOME funds directly from the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development," the Fresno lawmaker explained. The funds received can be used not only for housing rehabilitation for single and multi family projects, but also for new housing construction. Costa concluded, "In the end the beneficiaries of these funds will be lower-income renters and owners."
05.18.2007	FRESNO, CA - In the wake of recent storms that deluged the Central Valley, Congressman Jim Costa announced today (1/6/06) that the 20th Congressional District will receive nearly $1.5 million from the United States Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency. "The Emergency Food and Shelter National Board Program is a Federal program administered by FEMA to alleviate burdens a community faces in the wake of a catastrophe," Costa explained. "Funds are allocated to non-profit and government emergency food and shelter agencies under the principle that they provide food, shelter and supportive services to community members in need," the Fresno lawmaker continued. Fresno City and County will receive a total of $784,428 from the Emergency Food and Shelter Program. This program, authorized by Congress in 1983, is currently appropriated under the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act. Costa pointed out that as of 2006, the Emergency Food and Shelter Program has disbursed over $2.8 billion in federal aid throughout its 23-year life span. Kern County will receive a total of $581,795 Kings County will receive a total of $108,786
05.18.2007	FRESNO, CA - Citing much needed improvements to drainage systems, Costa announced today (March 13) that Kern County will receive $250,000 from the United States Department of Agriculture. "The USDA'S Rural Development program," Costa noted, "is instrumental in providing assistance to rural communities across America." This program, he pointed out, supports development of essential public facilities and services, rural economies and community empowerment programs. Funds received through this grant in Kern County will be used to enhance the current drainage system in Lost Hills. "The present septic system in southeast Bakersfield is failing and the money received will aid in the design of a new system - the Rexon Wastewater Collection System," Costa concluded.
05.18.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Praising the nation's victims' rights movement as having "not just a voice, but a vision," Congressman Jim Costa, D- Fresno, today introduced a concurrent resolution in the House of Representatives expressing Congress' support for the goals and ideals of National Crime Victims' Rights Week. The observance of National Crime Victims' Rights Week will take place April 23 through 29. Costa, one of the founders of the Congressional Victims' Rights Caucus, is sponsoring the House Concurrent Resolution 378 along with Congressman Ted Poe, R-Texas, and Congresswoman Katherine Harris, R-Florida. The three are co-chairs of the Congressional Victims' Rights Caucus. In his statement accompanying the bill's introduction, Costa said that victims of crime are no longer left in the shadows. He praised the nation's victims' rights movement as giving crime victims not only a voice but a vision "for what justice look like in America." Costa pointed out that President Ronald Reagan first called for a national observance to recognize and honor crime victims in 1980. "President Reagan's commitment to the rights of victims led to Congressional passage of the Victims of Crime Act in l984 which created the Crime Victims' Fund. Since then the Crime Victims' Fund had dedicated more than $7.4 billion collected from criminal fines - not taxpayer dollars - that annually supports more than 4,400 victim assistance programs serving some 3.8 million victims and compensation to more than 165,000 victims for unreimbursed medical expenses, lost wages and funeral costs," Costa stated. Numerous organizations in the 20th Congressional District, which Costa represents, receive funds from the Crime Victims' Fund. Those organizations include the probation departments in Fresno, Kern and Kings Counties, Clinica Sierra Vista, the Marjorie Mason Center and the Rape Counseling Service of Fresno The 2006 National Crime Victims' Rights Week theme is "Victims' Rights: Strength in Unity." The week is celebrated with ceremonies and observances in Washington, D.C. and in hundreds of communities across the nation. # # #
05.18.2007	FRESNO, CA - In order to help combat juvenile crime in the Central Valley, Congressman Jim Costa announced today the 20th Congressional District will receive over $200,000 in funds from the United States Department of Justice. Fresno City and County will receive a total of $218,649 from the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention. Representative Costa noted, "The Fresno City's Juvenile Accountability Block Grant (JABG) will benefit from this money since it will provide them with partial funding for two full-time truancy officers." Fresno County's Juvenile Drug Court "Will be able to use the money to fund a therapeutically focused drug court program for minors who have been arrested for drug related crimes with no serious violence involved," the Fresno lawmaker explained. Both programs are considered crucial to help prevent and reduce juvenile crime. "This funding will help law enforcement agencies become better equipped to help guide juvenile delinquents away from crime and towards more constructive activities," concluded Costa, "In addition, these programs are helping to build a safer community."
05.18.2007	FRESNO, CA - In order to help combat juvenile crime in the Central Valley, Congressman Jim Costa announced today the 20th Congressional District will receive over $100,000 in funds from the United States Department of Justice. Kern County will receive a total of $160,925 from the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention. Representative Costa stated, "Kern County will use this grant to fund their Repeat Offender Prevention Program which is a collaborative model of intensive probation supervision combined with community and family services." The program targets high-risk, non-violent, first-time juvenile offenders who live in the small rural communities of northern Kern County. Costa goes on to note, "The goal of this program is to prevent relapses in juvenile delinquency behavior." This program is considered crucial to help prevent and reduce juvenile crime. "This funding will help law enforcement agencies become better equipped to help guide juvenile delinquents away from crime and towards more constructive activities," concluded Costa. "The importance of this program is that it is giving positive opportunities to those who need it most."
05.18.2007	We want to commend Senator Jeff Denham and the Valley delegation for their work to ensure our fair share of funding in this year's infrastructure bond. The flooding this week in Central Valley could not be a more vivid demonstration that the San Joaquin Valley must get its fair share of any state infrastructure bond which goes forward to voters. A new surface water storage facility on the Upper San Joaquin River may, in fact, have helped prevent the flooding this week. But improved water storage for the Central Valley is just one issue that the administration and the legislature must deal with in developing California's infrastructure to serve the state's future needs. The Central Valley will grow by over 37 percent between now and 2020; this is a faster growth rate than the state as whole in the same period of time. To serve its future needs, the Central Valley must see improvements to Highway 99, additional water storage facilities and the construction of a High Speed Rail System. While these issues, along with Regional Water Plans, may be seen as simply Valley issues, they are a microcosm of the issues that demand action by the administration and the legislature to rebuild California's infrastructure so the state serves its citizens into the 21st Century and beyond. This week it was flooding in the Central Valley. Everyday Highway 99 draws closer to dangerous gridlock, further highlighting the need for High Speed Rail, in addition to funding for improving Highway 99. Now is the time for the Governor and the legislature to act on these important issues. # # #
05.18.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Calling for a commonsense approach to Indian gaming policy, Congressman Jim Costa, D-Fresno, has introduced legislation in the House of Representatives to amend the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act. Costa's bill, HR 5125, would amend Class III of the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act to require the Secretary of the Interior to withhold approval of new or additional Tribal-State compacts until each state first develops a long-term plan to administer Class III gaming. "Too often," the Fresno lawmaker contended, "Indian tribes are at the mercy of the shifting political winds of state government." In his statement accompanying the bill's introduction Costa voiced disapproval of "let's make a deal" time and detailed the hurdles faced by state policy makers and Indian tribes. "Negotiating a Tribal-State compact for the right to engage in Class III gaming on tribal lands is a process complicated by elections, changing attitudes towards the tribe - not to mention the understanding that gaming can be a lucrative business for the state." Costa's amendment would require states to enact legislation creating a master plan for gaming. Each state's Class III gaming master plan would have to include provisions detailing how many gaming locations the state will authorize, where those gaming facilities will be located, how each state will regulate its gaming compacts, how mitigation efforts will take place and be enforced, along with provisions allowing input from local communities, as well as tribes. Although Costa highlighted the benefits of this new process, he did call attention to precedent, "historically, merging the perspectives of tribes and local communities has been a process recognized by state and federal government as necessary, but noticeably missing from the present application process for Class III gaming. Getting every party of interest involved in the process - state, local and tribes -- is a major objective of this legislation." Noting concerns of those who have already received state authorization, Costa pointed out that his legislation will not prevent tribes from engaging in the application process or affect already approved Tribal-State compacts. Numerous tribal groups are based in the 20th Congressional District, which Costa represents. HR 5125 is indicative of Costa's commitment to strive for a middle-ground in public policy implementation. # # #
05.18.2007	15 Classic Books on "Becoming American" Will Support Community Programs BAKERSFIELD, CA - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced today that 15 classic books on the theme of "Becoming American" has been awarded to Kern County Library Lamont Branch. This award was made possible through the National Endowment for the Humanities' (NEH) We the People Bookshelf program. "The Lamont Library will not only receive a set of 15 books but will also be given posters and bookmarks honoring the ‘Becoming American' theme," said Costa. These materials will come from the American Library Association, an organization that is working in partnership with the Endowment. The bookshelf program is part of the NEH's We the People initiative, which supports projects that strengthen the teaching, study and understanding of American history and culture. "These books emphasize the immigrant character of the nation and will give the community an opportunity to explore America's diverse population," explained Costa. "The United States is a nation of immigrants. Nearly every family in this country has an immigration story in their ancestral, or more recent, past so it is not surprising that American literature reflects this and asks the question of what it is to become an American. This program provides a great opportunity for the community to discuss American history and literature as well as encouraging families to research their own immigrant past." The We the People Bookshelf on "Becoming American" contains the following books: Kindergarten to Grade 3 The Lotus Seed by Sherry Garland Watch the Stars Come Out by Riki Levinson Grandfather's Journey by Allen Say Grades 4 to 6 Immigrant Kids by Russell Freedman The People Could Fly: The Picture Book by Virginia Hamilton Rip Van Winkle by Washington Irving In the Year of the Boar and Jackie Robinson by Bette Bao Lord Grades 7 to 8 Rifles for Watie by Harold Keith The Glory Field by Walter Dean Myers A Tree Grows in Brooklyn by Betty Smith Dragonwings by Laurence Yep Grades 9 to 12 Death Comes for the Archbishop by Willa Cather Barrio Boy by Ernesto Galarza Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin, edited by Louis P. Masur Giants in the Earth: A Saga of the Prairie by Ole Edvart Rølvaag
05.18.2007	For the past 25 years, I have worked hard as a California state legislator and, today, as a Member of Congress, to enact public policy that recognizes the needs and rights of crime victims. When I came to Washington, I discovered there was a void in leadership on victims' issues. In order to fill the vacuum, I joined with my colleagues from across the aisle to found a new Voice for Victims in Congress: The Congressional Victims Rights Caucus, which I am proud to co-chair. The members of our bipartisan Victims' Rights Caucus believe victims have suffered enough. And because I believe so strongly in the cause of Victims' Rights, I am fighting the Administration's reckless attempt to balance the budget on the backs of victims. Crime victims are our sons and daughters, sisters and brothers, parents and neighbors and friends who are struggling to survive in the aftermath of crime. These are people who deserve services and support to help them cope. Yet, the Administration has proposed to take money from the Crime Victims' Fund and dump it into the grand abyss of the general treasury. The Crime Victims' Fund is not taxpayers' money. The concept behind the Fund is smart and simple: We take fines levied on criminals and distribute the money to victims' service providers. So the Administration's proposal is wrongheaded and shows no sense of history. In 1980, President Reagan first called for a national observance to recognize and honor victims of crimes, their families, and survivors. Victims' Rights Week, which is this week, also pays tribute to the thousands of community services providers that give critical support to victims every week of the year. Victims' Rights Week has since been proclaimed annually with ceremonies and observances in across the nation. President Reagan's commitment to the rights of victims lead to the passage of the Victims of Crime Act, which in 1984 created the Crime Victims Fund. Yet, in spite of this history, this administration is trying to take that money, meant for victims, and place it in the general treasury. If the Administration succeeds, it will mean that those who deserve more - the victims' of crime and their families - will have less. During the current session of Congress, along with my fellow Caucus co-chairs, I introduced a resolution that recognizes a fact that many Americans know all too well: Crime does not know any geographic, demographic or political boundary; it touches all of our communities. The Resolution expresses support for Victims' Rights Week and the Crime Victims' Fund, two legacies of President Reagan. The Crime Victims Fund serves 3.8 million victims every year. It helps get beds in domestic violence shelters, ensure rape victims receive proper counseling and even helps families pay for funerals. Still the Fund is under attack from the Administration and that is wrong. As long as I am in Congress, I will fight any efforts that would effectively deny services to victims. The Fund plays a crucial role in our local community's work to assist victims. Several groups here in Fresno rely on this funding source, including, the Fresno County Probation Department, the Marjaree Mason Center, the Rape Counseling Service of Fresno and the Comprehensive Youth Services organization.. These are great examples of the diverse types of organizations that receive funding - whether it is to provide health care, counseling or cover funeral expenses this funding is extremely useful in serving local communities. Just this week, I have brought together over 100 members of Congress to demand the Fund is used for what President Reagan intended: to help victims who truly need and deserve assistance and to hold offenders accountable. It is the primary job of public servants to protect our citizens from harm. The Crime Victims Fund is an expression of our commitment to that principal. Because of what it is and what it does, the Administration ought to leave the Crime Victims' Fund alone. # # #
05.18.2007	FRESNO - Three Central Valley Congressmen have called on President Bush and the federal government "to stand ready to expedite a federal disaster declaration for sixteen Northern and Central California counties." In a letter to the President, Congressmen Jim Costa, D-Fresno, Devin Nunes, R-Visalia, and George Radanovich, R-Mariposa, cited six weeks of heavy rain as the reason they are urging a high level of federal readiness. The severe rains, they wrote the President, have already resulted in Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger declaring that a state of emergency exists in the sixteen counties. Included were the counties of: Calaveras, Fresno, Kings, Merced, San Joaquin, Stanislaus, Tulare and Tuolumne in the central part of the state. Expressing their concern after visiting local areas threatened with flooding, Costa, Nunes and Radanovich urged the President and the federal government to "work with and remain on close watch with California and local officials...if we are to avoid the consequences of a natural disaster such as the one that befell the Gulf Coast states last fall." The full text of the letter is in the accompanying PDF file. # # #
05.18.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Praising the efforts of the nation's victims' rights movement Congressman Jim Costa, D- Fresno, today took the Bush Administration to task for what he called its, "wrongheaded attempt to balance the budget on the backs of victims." In a statement delivered on the House Floor, Costa, one of the founders of the Congressional Victims' Rights Caucus, criticized the administration for retracting a program that was first developed under President Ronald Reagan. President Reagan led the fight for passage of the Victims of Crime Act in 1984, which created the Crime Victims' Fund. Fines levied on criminals provide the money for the Crime Victims' Fund. Reiterating that these funds are "not taxpayer dollars," Costa pointed out that the Fund gives monetary aid "to service providers who assist millions of crime victims annually." The Fresno lawmaker declared that, "We must ensure the Crime Victims' Fund is used for what President Reagan intended - to help victims who truly need and deserve assistance and to hold offenders accountable." The 2006 National Crime Victims' Rights Week theme is "Victims' Rights: Strength in Unity." The week is celebrated with ceremonies and observances in Washington, D.C. and in hundreds of communities across the nation. # # #
05.18.2007	FRESNO, CA - In an effort to better equip local businesses to thrive in today's international economy, the 20th Congressional District will receive over $100,000 in funds from the United States Department of Education's Business and International Education Program, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced today. "Through partnership with Fresno-Center for International Trade Development, San Joaquin Valley International Trade Association and numerous others, the State Center Community College District has formed an Agricultural Trade Assistance Program," Congressman Costa explained. "This program," Costa continued, "will deliver an export development program for twenty pre-qualified agribusinesses that grow specialty crops with a high comparative advantage in Canada and Mexico." The funding received through the Business and International Education Program is considered crucial to help fund international professional development opportunities for the College and businesses. "Totaling 180,000 over two years allotted to fund the Agricultural Trade Assistance Program, which increases the export capacity of small and mid-sized agribusinesses through training and counseling," Costa noted. "The funds also aid the College's international business program through faculty development and internationalization of business and agribusiness," the Congressman concluded.
05.18.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Calling for proper care and concern to be given to our nation's Veterans, Congressman Jim Costa, D-Fresno, has circulated a letter among members of the House of Representatives to support the recommended $85 million for the State Extended Care Facilities Grant Program. In a letter sent to the Chairs and Ranking Members of the House Subcommittee on Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs and Senate Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, Rep. Costa and his colleagues indicated the need for funding, specifically in California. "Our home state of California has more than 2.3 million residents who are veterans." The lawmakers went on to call attention to the sad fact that, "Many of the men and women who served our country in uniform now find themselves in need for basic healthcare and housing." The $85 million that will be provided to California for the State Extended Care Facilities Grant Program in the Fiscal Year 2007 Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act will provide funding to construct and maintain extended care facilities. Noting the expediency of the situation the Representatives made the case on behalf of Veterans stating, "In California, veterans are forced to endure a two-year waiting list to join one of the state's three veterans' homes." The obvious consequence of such a long waiting period is that many veterans pass away before they are ever admitted. Since this is so the lawmakers furthered their argument for funds to provide not only new projects but maintenance of current homes. Any reduction to the State Extended Care Facilities Grant Program or restriction on the use of funds for new projects would delay the construction of these new California veteran' homes and jeopardize construction and maintenance of homes in other states." Costa and the other signatories concluded, "As Americans, we have all counted on veterans in the past and we should never forge the contributions they have made to our country." # # #
05.18.2007	TO: Assignment Desks Newscast Producers WHAT: Congressman Jim Costa's recorded comments in opposition to the Budget Resolution being acted on today by the House of Representatives will be available off the Satellite between ^:45-&:15 pm PDT. HOW: The Satellite coordinates are: 6:45 - 7:15 pm PDT AMC 1 c-band @ 103 degrees west Transponder 9 Downlink @ 3880 Horizontal Audio @ 6.2 or 6.8 # # #
05.18.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Criticizing the House Leadership for blatant neglect of Military Members and Veterans Congressman Jim Costa, D-Fresno, said, "The actions today, symbolize the short-sighted nature with which the Leadership of the House of Representatives has approached our nation's spending habits." "Over $500 million in funds were cut from the Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2007 - a proposal President Bush supported," Costa noted. At the same time, he pointed out, "The House Leadership favored over $228 billion in tax cuts." Before the bill was up for vote, Costa and other House members circulated a letter requesting support for the recommended $85 million for the State Extended Care Facilities Grant Program. In the letter sent to the Chairs and Ranking Members of the House Subcommittee on Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs and Senate Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, Costa and his colleagues indicated the need for funding, specifically in California. "Our home state of California has more than 2.3 million residents who are veterans," the letter declared. The lawmakers went on to call attention to the sad fact that, "Many of the men and women who served our country in uniform now find themselves in need for basic healthcare and housing." "In California, veterans are forced to endure a two-year waiting list to join one of the state's three veterans' homes," Costa declared. The obvious consequence of such a long waiting period is that many veterans pass away before they are ever admitted. The $85 million that would have been provided to California for the State Extended Care Facilities Grant Program in the Fiscal Year 2007 Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act would have provided funding to construct and maintain extended care facilities. Costa admonished the House Leadership for its lack of concern for our nation's Veterans, "In the legislation that passed the house, however, funding for all of the California projects was cut," the Fresno lawmaker stated. Costa concluded, "Today, the House leadership turned a blind eye to the women and men who have supported our very way of life . . . they should be ashamed of their priorities." # # #
05.18.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - Insisting that "Congress must act now," Representative Jim Costa (D-Fresno) gave remarks on the House Floor today in support of proposed legislation intended to deter identity theft. Rep. Costa was prompted to make his remarks as a result of the continuing revelations that the personal information of 26.5 million American Veterans and active military personnel had been stolen from the Department of Veterans Affairs. Standing in support of our country's women and men in uniform, Costa stated, "This body and the American public should be outraged at the continuing reports of theft of personal information of America's finest." "The consequences of the VA's incompetence should not rest on the backs of our Nation's men and women in uniform," the Fresno lawmaker declared. In support of this effort, Costa noted, "he is working with my colleagues to demand accountability and full disclosure by the VA. Costa is also a co-sponsor of legislation to provide veterans with credit monitoring services." Costa has also joined with other House members to make certain that, "Not one penny of the funding to pay for the VA's debacle is diverted from veteran's healthcare or other sorely needed services." Insisting that "This House must demand more of the VA than its unacceptable response of hand wringing and wrist slapping," Costa closed by reminding the legislature that, "We owe our veterans and active military personnel nothing less." # # #
05.18.2007	FRESNO, CA - Citing much needed improvement to the City of Huron's Police Department facilities, Congressman Jim Costa announced today that the City of Huron will receive $50,000 Community Facility Grant from the United States Department of Agriculture. Costa noted, "The USDA'S Rural Development Community Facility Grant program is instrumental in providing assistance to rural communities across America." Community Facility Grants, he pointed out, provide funds to assist in the development of essential public facilities and services. These funds can be used to construct, enlarge, or improve community facilities for health care, public safety, and community and public services. Funds received through this grant in the City of Huron will be used to enhance the current facilities and services of the Huron Police Department. "The Huron Police Department will be able to purchase needed vehicles and equipments, to repair their facilities and improve their services. All of which are vital in providing its community members with adequate service," Costa concluded.
05.18.2007	WASHINGTON, DC-Citing, "A need to keep a close watch on taxpayer dollars," Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) today announced he was cosponsoring legislation requiring Congress to exercise its constitutional responsibility of executive-branch oversight. "HR 841 and HR 5315 are instrumental pieces of legislation that work towards higher fiscal accountability," Rep. Costa contended. He urged his colleagues in Congress to ask more questions about the Bush Administration's irresponsible fiscal policies. "American taxpayers deserve to know how their money is being spent by the Administration," Costa pointed out. The GAO reports that 19 of 24 federal agencies are not in compliance with all federal accounting audit standards and cannot fully explain how they have spent taxpayer money appropriated by Congress. "Nobody would run a household or business this recklessly, but that's how Washington is being run," the Fresno lawmaker noted. "Future generations will have to pay back, with interest, the money the federal government is borrowing from other countries due to this fiscal recklessness," Costa continued. "As a result record-high budget deficits four years in a row, the federal debt has ballooned to $8.3 trillion; much of which is borrowed from foreign countries." Inspectors General in each federal agency complete regular reports identifying cases of fraud, waste and abuse within their agencies. "Their findings, however, are often ignored by their own agencies and an Administration-compliant Congress," stated Costa. "This is why HR 841 is important - this legislation mandates hearings when the non-partisan Government Accountability Office (GAO) raises a red flag over an agency's accounting practices," Costa declared. "Along with HR 841, Costa supports HR 5315, The Accountability in Government Act of 2006, which requires cabinet secretaries to face reconfirmation by the Senate if their agency cannot perform a clean audit. Together these two pieces of legislation are key in the effort to maintain accountability," Costa concluded. ###
05.18.2007	WASHINGTON, DC-Citing, "A need to keep a close watch on taxpayer dollars," Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) today announced he was cosponsoring two bills requiring Congress to exercise its constitutional responsibility of executive-branch oversight; HR 841 and HR 5315. HR 841 mandates hearings when the non-partisan Government Accountability Office (GAO) raises a red flag over an agency's accounting practice and HR 5315, The Accountability in Government Act of 2006, requires cabinet secretaries to face reconfirmation by the Senate if their agency cannot perform a clean audit. "These are both instrumental pieces of legislation that work towards higher fiscal accountability," Costa declared. He urged his colleagues in Congress to ask more questions about the Bush Administration's irresponsible fiscal policies. "American taxpayers deserve to know how their money is being spent by the Administration," Costa pointed out. The GAO reports that 19 of 24 federal agencies are not in compliance with all federal accounting audit standards and cannot fully explain how they have spent taxpayer money appropriated by Congress. "Nobody would run a household or business this recklessly, but that's how Washington is being run," the Fresno lawmaker noted. "Future generations will have to pay back, with interest, the money the federal government is borrowing from other countries due to this fiscal recklessness," Costa continued. "As a result record-high budget deficits four years in a row, the federal debt has ballooned to $8.3 trillion; much of which is borrowed from foreign countries." Inspectors General in each federal agency complete regular reports identifying cases of fraud, waste and abuse within their agencies. "Their findings, however, are often ignored by their own agencies and an Administration-compliant Congress," stated Costa. "Together these two pieces of legislation are key in the effort to maintain accountability," Costa concluded. # # # A summary and contact information for HR 841 and HR 5315 is contained in the attached PDF file.
05.18.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - A bipartisan group of twenty-seven members of the California Congressional Delegation, spearheaded by Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno), have urged Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger and the state's legislative leadership to provide future support for development of a High Speed Rail System. In a letter to the governor and Senate President Pro Tem Don Perata, Assembly Speaker Fabian Nunez, and Republican Leaders, Senator Dick Ackerman and Assembly member George Plescia the Members of Congress urged continued funding of the High Speed Rail Authority for the next two years so the Authority can complete its work on the Environmental Impact Reports, work that is needed so that right-away acquisition and construction could begin if California voters approve the bond measure in 2008. Text of the letter follows: June 15, 2006 Hon. Don Perata Hon. Fabian Nunez Senate President Pro Tem Speaker of the Assembly State Capitol, Room 205 State Capitol, Room 219 Sacramento, CA 95814 Sacramento, CA 95814 Hon. Dick Ackerman Hon. George Plescia Senate Republican Leader Assembly Republican Leader State Capitol, Room 305 State Capitol, Room 3098 Sacramento, CA 95814 Sacramento, CA 95814 Gentlemen: As members of the bipartisan California Congressional Delegation, we urge you to support the proposed funding levels for the High Speed Rail Authority and to include those operating funds in the 2006-2007 state budget. In addition, we also support moving the $9 billion High Speed Rail Construction Bond measure from the November, 2006 election ballot to the November, 2008 election ballot. Further, we support creation of the proposed Joint Legislative Committee on High Speed Trains to be made up of 5 Members of the Senate and 5 Members of the Assembly. The continued funding of the High Speed Rail Authority, setting a new date certain for the High Speed Rail Construction Bond to go before voters, and the increased legislative oversight of the High Speed Train issue by the proposed Joint Legislative Committee on High Speed Train are, each and every one, interrelated and offer the greatest opportunity for the state to develop a transportation network of 21st Century ability. By 2025, it is predicted that California's population will exceed 50 million people. The ongoing influx of new residents already places great strain on the state's transportation network. Our highways are overcrowded and increasingly dangerous. Air quality continues to be a problem throughout the state due, in no small part, to emissions from automobiles and trucks. Creation of a High Speed Rail System will most certainly connect all aspects of the state's transportation infrastructure including passenger rail, highways and air transportation systems. The integration of our transportation infrastructure that will come about with the build-out of a High Speed Rail System will help relieve our crowded highways, improve air quality throughout the state and allow enhanced movement of goods and people in a manner consistent with California's growing population. This is extremely important to our long-term economic growth. In order for the ultimate integration of our transportation network to take place, the High Speed Rail Authority must have the ability to continue its work. This is why we support continued funding for the Authority. Increased legislative oversight of the High Speed Rail Authority's activities will allow greater public input as the Authority's work moves forward in anticipation of the proposed system's construction bond's approval by voters. We further believe that moving the High Speed Rail Construction Bond measure to the November, 2008 election ballot is appropriate, given the task that lie ahead for the High Speed Rail Authority and the opportunity for greater legislative oversight that will come about by creation of the Joint Legislative Committee on High Speed Trains. In advance, thank you for considering our position on these issues. We look forward to continued collaboration in our mutual desire to solve California's transportation needs. ** This letter was signed by the following members of the House of Representatives: Joe Baca (D-CA43), Howard Berman (D-CA28), Ken Calvert (R-CA44), Dennis Cardoza (D-CA18), Jim Costa (D-CA20), Susan Davis (D-CA53), Sam Farr (D-CA17), Bob Filner (D-CA51), Jane Harman (D-CA36), Mike Honda (D-CA15), Darrell Issa (R-CA49), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA16), Doris Matsui (D-CA5), Howard McKeon (R-CA25), George Miller (D-CA7), Grace Napolitano (D-CA38), Devin Nunes (R-CA21), Nancy Pelosi (D-CA8), Richard Pombo (R-CA11), Linda Sanchez (D-CA39), Adam Schiff (D-CA29), Brad Sherman (D-CA27), Hilda Solis (D-CA32), Ellen Tauscher (D-CA10), Mike Thompson (D-CA1), Diane Watson (D-CA33), Henry Waxman (D-CA30) # # #
05.18.2007	Statement of Congressman Jim Costa (CA20) WASHINGTON, D.C. -"Today I voted for the Iraq resolution that has been debated on the floor of the House of Representatives this week. "My vote was cast in support of American men and women in uniform who are fighting the War on Terrorism. The last three years have been frustrating for a majority of Americans based upon the goals that were represented to us both before and after Saddam Hussein was toppled. Weapons of mass destruction, the escalating cost and duration of the war are examples of issues that have not turned out as the Administration has claimed. Clearly, mistakes have been made but there has been a consistent lack of effort to acknowledge and correct those errors by the President. He must offer a new plan on how we are going to win this war and not simply more of the same. "I believe that we must support the men and women of America's armed forces who are doing the hard work in harm's way. Further, the U.S. government has a moral and legal obligation to protect American citizens and the people of the free world in the War on Terrorism, but we cannot do it alone. That fight against terrorism could last as long as the Cold War, which began following World War II and lasted into the late l980s. "The debate in the House on the Iraq resolution has been frustrating because, by and large, it was not a discussion or debate, just hours of partisan speeches. "Congress must undertake a bipartisan evaluation of America's involvement in fighting the War on Terrorism. Congress needs to take a long open look at what has gone right and wrong over the last three years in Middle East. America has seen 2500 military personnel lost; nearly 20,000 wounded and spent almost $370 billion of taxpayer's money. The justification for this expenditure of the lives of America's best and brightest and the vast sums of money have been varied and inconsistent. Congress has an obligation to practice serious oversight on a matter of the highest importance to the American people. In my opinion ten hours of talk, without committee oversight, does not begin to touch the surface. Congress must do better; the American public deserves more. "In order to succeed in Iraq and Afghanistan, I believe the links between military action in those countries and the War on Terrorism must be clearly established. All we've seen in the hours of talk over the Iraq resolution has been sloganeering; to the extent that the ‘debate' does a disservice to America's military personnel who are putting their lives on the line and American taxpayers who are funding this effort. "Congress should practice real oversight instead of supporting errors in leadership. The checks and balances in our system are missing in action." # # #
05.18.2007	FRESNO, CA - Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) announced today that the Head Start Program operated by the Fresno County Economic Opportunities Commission will receive nearly $14 million from the United States Department of Health and Human Services. "It is important to give our children proper education and healthcare, as well as provide parents with adequate information and services that they need to build a better life for their families," Congressman Costa said. "The Head Start Program is one of the most successful federal programs that has ever been created," Congressman Costa added. Under the terms of the grant the Head Start Program will receive a total of $13,994,135, which will allow it to continue to provide no-cost comprehensive preschool programs that assist the educational needs of disadvantaged children and strengthen their emotional, social, health, nutritional and psychological needs in nurturing and stimulating environments. The program also provides employment opportunities for local community members, as well as encouraging local educational and health organizations to assist low-income families with their needs. The Head Start Program currently has over 3,019 funded enrollment slots and 37 centers including churches, schools and community centers. It has been one of the most successful federal programs spearheaded by the Fresno County Economic Opportunities Commission. "This grant will allow the local Head Start Program to continue to provide children an opportunity to cultivate their skills, while giving low income families a chance to further their lives," Costa concluded. # # #
05.18.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - In a letter to the Federal Aviation Administration, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) today expressed his concern over the proposed transfer of the Fresno Terminal Area Approach Control to Las Vegas. "There are many areas of concern that need to be meticulously thought out prior to any decision," Costa noted. The text of the letter follows: June 21, 2006 Marion C. Blakey Administrator Federal Aviation Administration 800 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20591 Dear Administrator Blakey: I am writing to express my concern regarding the FAA's proposed plan to consolidate the Fresno Terminal Area Approach Control (TRACON) facility into the facility at Las Vegas. First, the proposed consolidation would present a number of new challenges for Fresno that would impair safety and service for the Fresno area. TRACONs are designed to be effective within 100 miles of their location, and utilize line-of-sight and ground-radar based technology. The presence of the Sierra mountain range between the two locations presents a formidable geographic obstacle with which ground-based radar would have to contend. In addition the Valley's Tule fog often results in absolute zero visibility. I would hope that any proposed plan can meet these challenges without sacrificing safety or service. Second, Fresno Yosemite International Airport is experiencing growth at a rate faster than the national average and also has two Military Operations Areas for Lemoore Naval Air Station. As you know, Lemoore is presently seeking to expand these Operation Areas. I am concerned that the added volume in the airspace could not be adequately handled by a Las Vegas location that would also control the airspace for itself and Bakersfield. Finally, many of the air traffic controllers presently employed at the Fresno TRACON are well-qualified and experienced individuals. Could you tell me what affect the consolidation would have on this workforce? Thank you for your attention to this matter and I look forward to your response to these concerns.
05.18.2007	FRESNO, CA - Citing growing concern for creating an environment conducive to learning, Congressman Jim Costa (D - Fresno) announced today that the Hanford Elementary School District will receive $391, 104 from the Elementary and Secondary School Counseling Demonstration Program. This grant is under the auspices of the U.S. Department of Education with the purpose of establishing or expanding counseling programs, and will be provided over a three-year period. "This fund will help to improve the quality and availability of counseling services in the district," Costa stated, "as well as provide students with efficient mental health care resources." The Elementary and Secondary School Counseling Demonstration Program provides funds to develop and implement viable and effective counseling programs for elementary and secondary school students. "The grant provided could be used to hire counselors, social workers and psychiatrists as well as improve current counseling services that can cater to the different needs of the students," Costa explained. The goals targeted for this program are students' academic performance, attendance and social skills development "This grant will provide the tools necessary for teachers, counselors and parents to address the mental health needs of students and, consequently, improve performance," Congressman Costa concluded.
05.17.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Jim Costa, D-Fresno and a bipartisan group of Hispanic Members, including Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and Congressional Hispanic Conference, met with President Bush earlier today at the White House to discuss national immigration reform legislation. The Congressman and others discussed provisions of interest to San Joaquin Valley agriculture and the business community, including foreign workers, amnesty, and border security. If you are interested in setting up a phone interview with Congressman, please let me know or call our Washington, D.C. office directly and speak to Juan Lopez at 202.225.3341
05.17.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Costa announced today that the U.S. Department of Justice has allocated $115 million for the completion of the Mendota Federal Correctional Institution. "Funding for this facility is long overdue," Costa said. "The completion of the Federal prison will help boost economic development in the City of Mendota." Earlier this year, Senator Feinstein and Congressman Costa submitted a letter to the Department of Justice urging they allocate funding from the FY2007 Joint Resolution to complete the Mendota prison. Their letter was in response to rescissions made by the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP), which would have resulted in a two-thirds completed facility. In May 2000, the BOP selected Mendota, California as a location for a medium security federal correctional institution. So far, the Bureau of Prisons has spent $100 million to complete about 40 percent of the Mendota prison facility. Once completed, the facility will provide 1552 beds to help address overcrowding in the nation's federal prison system which is currently 37 percent over capacity. Congressman Costa vowed to provide continued oversight until the completion of the facility.
05.17.2007	FRESNO, C.A. - Congressman Jim Costa will honor students from the 20th Congressional District who participated in this year's Congressional Art Competition. The reception will be held at the Fresno Art Museum, located at 2233 N. 1st Street in Fresno, from 4:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. today. Each spring, the U.S. House of Representatives sponsors the Congressional Art Competition. The overall winning entry from each congressional district will be displayed in the corridor tunnel of the Cannon House Office Building leading to the U.S. Capitol for one year. This year, Saranpreet Nagra from Selma High School won as the winner of the Congressional Art Competition for the 20th District, for his art piece titled "Time Flies." The Judges Choice for Fresno County was Gabriella Ramirez from Sanger High School for her piece "Daisy Mirror;" Jessica Palmer for Kings County and her piece "La Danse;" and Ana Martinez from Kern County for her "Untitled" piece. "This is an opportunity for high school students with artistic talent to showcase and receive national recognition for their work," Costa said.
05.15.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Jim Costa, D-Fresno, will speak on the House Floor this afternoon between 12 p.m. and 1:15 p.m. P.S.T. Costa will introduce House Resolution 119 expressing Congress' support of the goals and ideals of National Crime Victims' Rights Week and the efforts to increase public awareness of the rights, needs, and concerns of crime victims and survivors in the United States. As Co-Chair of the recently founded Congressional Victims' Rights Caucus, Costa urges Congress to remember "Every Victim. Every Time," the theme for this year's national observance of Victims Rights Week as the nation copes with recent crimes that have shaken the entire country including the shootings at Virginia Tech University. This year, National Victims Rights Week will be observed from April 22 through April 28 to commemorate the rights, needs and services of crime victims an crime survivors. Costa's speech can be recorded off the C-SPAN coverage of the House of Representatives.
