01.08.2019	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) tonight released the following statement after President Trump addressed the nation on the need for more comprehensive border security measures, including a wall along the southern border. “President Trump’s request for funding to build a wall along our southern border is not only reasonable, it is desperately needed. There is nothing “immoral” about a nation choosing to protect its borders and thereby protect its sovereignty. “What is immoral is to continue to allow a constant stream of drug traffickers, and human traffickers into the country. It is immoral to allow this unlawful door to remain open, because it encourages adults to put their children in grave danger – both from illness and from the strangers who transport them. “I fear that many of my Democrat colleagues are willing to set aside the laws of our land, and that is what we are talking about: immigration is governed by laws, to ensure fairness and safety. Many Democrats are willing to set aside these laws, and turn a blind eye to the dangers coming into our nation, for the prospect of future electoral gains. “I urge my colleagues in Congress to fund the border wall and to reopen our government.” For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
11.07.2018	Haleyville, Ala. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement after learning of the resignation of Attorney General Jeff Sessions. “Having served with Jeff Sessions in Congress, I can honestly say that he has always been someone who is of the utmost character and ability. I know he worked every day to uphold the law in all fairness to everyone. He has done great work enforcing our immigration laws, fighting gangs and opioid abuse and upholding religious liberties. Jeff, and his wife Mary, have been good friends with Caroline and me. We wish them the best in whatever is in store for them in the next chapter of their lives.” In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
10.30.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Chairman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), and Ranking Member Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02)the leading members of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, sent a letter to Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) and Ranking Member Nita Lowey (NY-17), the leading members of the full U.S. House Appropriations Committee, urging passage of a supplemental disaster appropriations bill to address the series of natural disasters in 2018 that have caused widespread destruction and significant losses for our nation’s farmers, as well the communities in which they live. There is an urgent need for a supplemental disaster appropriations bill to help farmers, ranchers, and rural communities recover and rebuild. “Natural disasters, like hurricanes, know no political boundaries,” said Chairman Aderholt. “That is why it is important for people like my friend, and Ranking Member, Sanford Bishop and myself, to come together to support the farmers affected. After all, farmers don’t care about political parties but have to pay the bank loans back and keep their lights on.” The Members wrote in their letter: “On October 10, 2018, Hurricane Michael, one of the most powerful storms to make landfall in the United States, left a path of devastation from Alabama and Florida to Virginia. While the damage is still being assessed, it is estimated that total agricultural losses could exceed $4 billion. Less than a month earlier, Hurricane Florence slammed into North Carolina and South Carolina causing $22 billion in damages. In addition, wildfires across the western states have consumed more than 8 million acres to date. While there is never a good time for a storm like Michael, it hit at the worst time possible for farmers. With depressed commodity prices and markets closed due to retaliatory trade measures, it made the hurricane’s impact even greater.” They continued: “It is our responsibility, and the responsibility of the other Members of Congress, to find solutions and provide relief to those in need. We look forward to working with you, and the full House Appropriations committee, as well as the entire Congress on a supplemental appropriations package and to reexamine federal policies where necessary.” In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
10.12.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement after learning news that Pastor Andrew Brunson would be released from prison in Turkey. “I’m so thankful for the release of American Pastor Andrew Brunson from prison in Turkey. He was detained simply for practicing his Christian faith. I’m also thankful that President Trump and his administration took unprecedented action to work for Brunson’s release. The President made his release a top priority from the moment he took office. And of course, above all else, I am thankful to God for Dr. Brunson’s release, health and safety.” In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
10.03.2018	p.p1 {margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; font: 16.0px Calibri; -webkit-text-stroke: #000000} span.s1 {font-kerning: none} Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt today released the following statement announcing $8 million in federal funding available directly to farmers in Alabama to install irrigation infrastructure. “This is the beginning of funding that is now being made available to directly help farmers in North Alabama weather droughts while being good stewards of our natural resources. The money available will assist those who farm land along the Wheeler Lake Reservoir. Specifically, it will help farmers install irrigation systems on farmland in Lawrence County upstream of Wheeler Dam and those who are downstream of the Guntersville Dam in Marshall County, in areas such as Parches Cove and Greenbriar Cove. “This investment is another example of how President Trump’s administration, and this Congress, have come together to support and provide for rural America, especially Alabama. The funding will help local farmers in underserved areas better weather severe droughts like the most recent one in 2016. Federal funding, such as this, is a proven example of how partnerships between federal, state and local governments, benefits communities. This is exactly the type of partnerships we should be forming to best use the taxpayers’ dollars. Investing in our agriculture and conservation communities will pay dividends for decades to come and I look forward to seeing the benefits of this partnership between the government and our state’s farmers.
09.21.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt today released the following statement announcing more than $1.1 million to community health centers in Alabama’s Fourth Congressional District to help combat the opioid crisis. Congress appropriated the money and it will be distributed by the United States Department of Health and Human Services. “The United States is currently addressing a crisis which shows no discrimination. People of all races, ethnicities, geographic regions, and socio-economic classes are impacted by this national crisis and, unfortunately, Alabama has not been spared.” “Congress and federal agencies must work with state and local governments, as well as community organizations to support individuals and communities that have felt left behind. These HHS grants will empower community health centers and rural organizations to expand both opioid addiction treatment and prevention programs.” These grants will support community health centers in the following cities that serve Alabama’s Fourth Congressional District: Gadsden, Parrish, Scottsboro, and Tuscaloosa. Four community health centers will receive a total of $975,250 through the Expanding Access to Quality Substance Use Disorder and Mental Health Services awards: Quality of Life Services, Inc. Gadsden- $293,000 Capstone Rural Health Center, Parrish- $287,250 Northeast Alabama Health Services, Inc., Scottsboro- $110,000 Whatley Health Services, Inc., Tuscaloosa- $285,000 One community health center will receive an additional award through the Rural Communities Opioid Response Program Planning program: Capstone Rural Health Center, Parrish- $200,000 In total, $1,175,250 will be awarded to Alabama’s Fourth Congressional District’s community health centers for these purposes. “In July, I stood with my colleagues in Congress to pass a bipartisan bill, the Substance Use-Disorder Prevention that Promotes Opioid Recovery and Treatment (SUPPORT) for Patients and Communities Act, which improves and expands access to treatment and recovery services, improves data to identify and help at-risk patients and families, and cracks down on foreign shipments of illicit drugs. A final version of this legislation is being negotiated with the Senate and I am hopeful that we can get it signed into law by the President before the end of this year. I stand ready to further work in Congress providing relief to all of our friends and families affected.” In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
09.20.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross announced that the Department’s Economic Development Administration (EDA) is awarding a $2 million grant to Wallace State Community College (WSCC) of Cullman, Alabama, to build a technical education center that will help workers gain new, in-demand skills. According to grantee estimates, the project is expected to create 68 jobs. “Under the Trump Administration, workforce development and training are of the utmost importance as some workers continue to struggle in communities across the United States,” said Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross. “This new facility in Cullman will provide the innovative education workers need to compete for jobs in the global economy.” “I am proud to work with President Trump in fulfilling his mission to support rural America,” said Congressman Robert Aderholt. “These funds invest in jobs that help drive rural Alabama and provide a good quality of life.” “Workforce development is a cornerstone in our efforts to increase the level of education of our citizens, and in turn, our efforts to continue growing Alabama’s economy,” said Governor Ivey. “We are honored to have the support of the U.S. Department of Commerce and Secretary Ross to implement these much needed programs to train our workers for some of the state’s most in-demand jobs.” “Businesses and manufacturers across the country are actively seeking workers with technical skills,” said Senator Richard Shelby (R-Ala.). “This significant investment will allow Wallace State Community College the opportunity to equip students with the necessary innovative training to meet this heightened demand. Further, the new technical education center will serve a vital role in promoting workforce development and fostering economic growth throughout Alabama.” This investment will establish WSCC’s new technical education center, housing a welding program and business incubator. The welding program upgrades will support and expand a pipeline of technical education for the region, while the incubator space will support the convergence of various community resources. This project was made possible by the regional planning efforts led by the North Central Alabama Regional Council of Governments. EDA the North Central Alabama Regional Council of Governments to bring together the public and private sectors to create an economic development roadmap to strengthen the regional economy, support private capital investment, and create jobs.
07.24.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement after President Trump announced support for farmers impacted by tariffs imposed by China on American farm goods. “President Trump and Secretary Perdue took action to stand by farmers who are suffering from illegal trade retaliation. Secretary Perdue called me earlier Tuesday to discuss these measures. The actions and funding announced demonstrate that the President has not forgotten the American farmer and that agricultural producers will not bear the brunt of unjustified retaliation by foreign governments. “As Chairman of the Agriculture Subcommittee of the House Appropriations Committee, I have worked to ensure that protective measures and funding would be available should our nation’s agriculture producers be confronted with such abusive policies enacted by foreign leaders. Any funds spent will be temporary. This will ensure that our farmers are able to make ends meet while the Trump Administration works out more fair deals for farmers, ranchers, and producers who want to sell their products overseas. “I applaud President Trump for standing-up to China and other foreign government’s unfair trade practices. If our markets here are open to their goods then their markets should be open for American agriculture and manufacturing.” In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
07.24.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement after a Harvard study found that the 4th Congressional District has the highest rate of opioid prescriptions in the country. “It is deeply saddening to learn that the 4th Congressional District has such a high opioid prescription rate. I think this crisis, particularly in rural America, corresponds directly to President Trump’s popularity in my district. People here have felt left behind and have seen their jobs and opportunities disappear. Due to the epidemic of depression, some people have turned to prescription drugs to dull the pain. However, I believe that President Trump’s renewed focus on these areas and increasing jobs has resonated here strongly. “But combatting this crisis takes more than just better economic opportunities and my colleagues in Congress and I have been working toward that end. In the FY18 funding bill signed into law in March, Congress included $4 billion to directly combat the opioid crisis. This is the largest amount of money ever to address prevention, treatment, and enforcement issues. $130 million was set aside for the Rural Communities Opioid Response program, to reach rural communities that have been hit especially hard by the opioid crisis. And another billion in grants to states and Indian tribes to be used at the local level to target this epidemic. We are currently working on the funding for FY19 and I am confident that we will continue strong funding for these programs. “Our attorney general in Alabama, Steve Marshall, has made the opioid epidemic a priority. Furthermore, while I think that Congress can address the funding, this battle will be won at the state and local level. It will take a targeted approach that can’t be done from Washington. With that being said, I will continue to work to make sure that state and local governments and organizations have the resources they need to win this war. In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
07.11.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement after the House Appropriations Committee approved an amendment the Congressman introduced to prevent government religious discrimination regarding child welfare agencies. “The amendment I offered today (Wednesday) and which was approved by the House Appropriations Committee, will address two serious problems currently facing our nation. First, the current opioid epidemic has caused the number of children in foster care across America to skyrocket. Here in Alabama, we have seen a 30% increase in just the last four years. These are children who are in desperate need of finding forever families. “Secondly, several states and localities across the country are not allowing religious organizations, such as Catholic Charities and Bethany Christian Services, to operate child welfare agencies. The reason for this is simply because these organizations, based on religious conviction, choose not to place children with same-sex couples. “The amendment I introduced seeks to prevent these governments from discriminating against child welfare providers on the basis that the provider declines to provide a service that conflicts with its sincerely held religious beliefs or moral convictions, and furthermore, it would require the Department of Health and Human Services to withhold 15% of federal funds for child welfare services from states and localities that discriminate against these agencies. “As co-chairman of the House Coalition on Adoption, my goal was straightforward: to encourage states to include all experienced and licensed child welfare agencies so that children are placed in caring, loving homes where they can thrive. We need more support for these families and children in crisis, not less.” In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
07.09.2018	Haleyville, Ala. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) this evening released the following statement on President Trump’s nominee to fill the vacancy on the Supreme Court of the United States. “From what I know at this point, it appears President Trump has made an excellent choice in nominating Brett Kavanaugh. Judge Kavanaugh has the qualifications that make him immensely qualified to take a seat on the highest court in the land. I believe, if confirmed by the Senate, Judge Kavanaugh will interpret the Constitution as written, and I don’t think he will attempt to make law from the bench. Again, based on what I’m hearing about Judge Kavanaugh, I encourage my Congressional colleagues in the Senate to quickly confirm him. In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
05.23.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the “Right to Try” bill, sending it to the President’s desk. ““I’m very happy that the ‘Right-to-Try” bill has passed the House and Senate. Terminally ill patients should have every chance at hope, no matter how small it might seem. And we should not dampen the light of hope for those who are most in need. I look forward to the President signing this bill into law.” When this bill becomes law, it will help terminally ill patients get access to experimental medical treatments where no alternative currently exists. In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
05.18.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement upon learning that President Trump plans to use his authority as President to deny Title X Family Planning funding to Planned Parenthood. The organization received an average of nearly $60 million annually from the program. “I fully support President Trump’s decision to deny Title X Family Planning money to abortion providers, including Planned Parenthood. The House of Representatives has passed language to do just this, but as usual, it was stripped away in the Senate. President Trump is taking these actions after receiving a letter that I and other pro-life conservatives in the House recently signed to ask him to reinstate the common-sense Reagan-era restrictions of taxpayer dollars being used to support organizations that provide abortions. “We only have to look to Planned Parenthood’s activities in our own state to see why they do not deserve federal funds. Just within the last few years, the clinic in Mobile performed two abortions in less than a year on a 14-year-old girl. She was clearly being sexually abused, but no one at Planned Parenthood notified authorities, as is required by law. For them, it was another routine abortion. “There are plenty of health care providers, such as community and rural health centers, that provide the family planning needs of women and will be better stewards of the people’s tax dollars. I fully support President Trump’s decision to move forward with this initiative and appreciate his courage to finally acknowledge that family planning is not the same as abortion and that Planned Parenthood is not above reproach.” In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
05.04.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today joined with U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue, Governor Ivey and other state leaders to announce an almost three million dollar grant for Tombigbee Electric Cooperative to expand rural broadband in Marion, Fayette and Lamar counties. And also on the $625 million Congressman Aderholt helped secure in the federal budget to improve rural broadband for the rest of the state and country. “For far too long, Washington has looked at rural America as an expanse in between the cities and their suburbs, as opposed to the backbone of America. Yet, these are the people that raise our cattle, work in the factories that dot rural landscapes, and till the land in order to provide food for our plate. “Secretary Perdue and I announced today a down-payment on ensuring rural America is not left behind. The Rural Development account in the bill I pushed through Congress contains $625 million dollars of commitment to expanding rural broadband, in an effort to erase the rural digital divide. This commitment of 625 million dollars is not only Washington putting our money where our mouths are, but also a line in the sand that the days of looking past rural America are over. “The Tombigbee Electric Cooperative is the first example of how this investment will work. Today we announced almost $3 million will be going to Tombigbee to expand access to the internet in rural Marion, Fayette and Lamar counties. “Access to high speed internet is now just as important to a high quality of life as electricity, water and sewer. As a country, we cannot allow large sections of our population to be cutoff from the rest of the world, and therefore, be cut off from economic opportunities. I believe this is just the beginning of bring rural America into the 21st Century where it belongs. In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
03.02.2018	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today called for entries in the 2018 Congressional Art Competition. “I am pleased once again to be a sponsor of the United States Congressional Art Competition for high school students within the 4th District. This is an annual nationwide event that recognizes and encourages the artistic talent we have in our district. Students in grades 9-12 are encouraged to compete. “The 2018 Congressional Art Competition award ceremony and reception will be held at the Evelyn Burrow Museum on the campus of Wallace State Community College in Hanceville, Alabama. The date for the ceremony is Monday, April 23th at 10:30 a.m. All students participating in the competition, along with their parents and art teachers, are invited to attend the reception and ceremony. “The ‘Best of Show’ artwork will represent Alabama’s 4th Congressional District by being displayed in the U.S. Capitol Complex for an entire year. In addition to having his or her artwork displayed in Washington, the winner will be awarded two round-trip airline tickets and $500 for expenses to attend the National Exhibition Reception in Washington, D.C. this summer. “High School students wishing to compete should check with their school’s art teacher or administrators. High Schools within the 4th District will be receiving letters with more details. Students who are home-schooled are also eligible to participate. For more information, please contact Pam Abernathy in our Gadsden District Office at 256-546-0201 or by email at pam.abernathy@mail.house.gov. We look forward to seeing the creations of students in the 4th District on display soon at Wallace State.” For information can be found on the Art Competition website. In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
02.13.2018	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Robert Aderholt, released the following statement after meeting with President Trump at the White House to discuss plans for trade. “Tuesday morning, I met with President Trump at the White House to discuss work on future trade deals that put America and American workers first. Our past trade deals grew the economies of other countries while putting our own citizens in unemployment lines. The President and I agree those days are over. “While our trade deficits with other countries continue to balloon, life is being drained out of the American dream. We have lost good paying jobs that allow people to buy homes, send their kids to college, give to their churches and have a nest egg for retirement. “I took the opportunity to thank President Trump for his support of my “Buy American” provision that mandates the use of American made iron and steel in publicly funded infrastructure projects. I also applauded his efforts to expand the American manufacturing base. Revitalizing American manufacturing is the key component in ‘Making America Great Again’. “It is great to finally have a leader in the White House like President Trump who shares my goal to put the American worker first in any trade deals our country makes. That also means treating the people who live in rural America with respect, and not as if their jobs and well-being are expendable.”
02.02.2018	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Robert Aderholt, released the following statement in regard to the release of the FISA memo. “I am very pleased that the FISA memo from the House Intelligence Committee has been released to the public, as this is something I think most Americans supported. I read the memo two weeks ago, and felt the information was extremely important and should be seen by the American people. “The public should be able to have confidence that our institutions, including the FBI, are not being politicized in favor of one candidate over another. That’s why we need transparency to show what the true facts were. This is not the way the system should work. It was interesting to see over the past several days so many of the Democrats that went out of their way to discredit this report before it was even released. I hope this information can help people understand this entire situation.” In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
01.11.2018	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Robert Aderholt, released the following statement in regard to the release of the 2018 Christian Persecution Watch List. “On Wednesday, the Open Doors USA, a international ministry that works with persecuted Christians around the world, released its 25th annual World Watch List at the National Press Club. While it is tragic that these reports are necessary, I appreciated the opportunity to join with Open Doors to bring attention to this issue. “Sadly, the news from the event was not good. The number of Christians who are facing persecution around the world is increasing. “North Korea continues to be at the top of the list of countries where Christians are persecuted and strictly prohibited from openly worshipping. The following is a list of the top ten countries where Christians are persecuted: North Korea, Afghanistan, Somalia, Sudan, Pakistan, Eritrea, Libya, Iraq, Yemen, and Iran. “The Open Doors report highlighted that women are particularly singled out and abused for their faith. There were reports of 2,260 women who were raped, sexually harassed or forced into marriages through threats of death. It’s believed this number is greatly under reported. I should also point out this is an issue that women, men and children all face around the world. “We cannot turn a blind eye to this evil and the United States must continue to hold our friends – and our enemies – accountable. I will continue to discuss these issues with my colleagues in Congress to help ensure that the Administration has all the tools it needs from those of us in Congress who understand the severity of this issue.” More information on the 2018 list can be found at: https://www.opendoorsusa.org/christian-persecution/world-watch-list/ In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
12.19.2017	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Robert Aderholt, released the following statement in regard to the passage of the Tax Reform and Jobs Bill. “This afternoon, I voted in the House of Representatives, to give back more money to Alabama taxpayers. Far too many of the people in Washington believe that the government should have a right to a high percentage of everything you earn. Those people are wrong. It is your money, and you should be able to keep even more of it. “This tax bill does the right thing. It doubles the child tax credit. It doubles the personal tax exemption. It keeps medical deductions and mortgage deductions, and more than 80% of the people in the 4th District of Alabama will receive a tax cut. “This is also a jobs bill. By lowering the corporate tax rate, businesses are no longer rewarded for moving their businesses and jobs overseas where tax rates are cheaper. Our cumbersome, 20th Century tax code desperately needed updating. This bill achieves that goal.” Important Numbers: Individual filers: $6,350 under current law, will increase to $12,000 under TCJA = Increase in deduction of $5,650 Married filing jointly: $12,700 under current law, $24,000 under TCJA = Increase in deduction of $11,300 In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
11.17.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt today released the following statement on the passage in the House of Representative of the tax reform bill. “The bottom line of this tax bill is that it sends more money home to Alabama families. While the economy has improved in the last year, many people have not had a raise in 10 years. This bill changes that by putting money back in people’s pockets and creating new jobs. It prevents corporate revenue from being parked overseas and puts it to work here in the US to increase wages, increase job rolls and increase opportunity. “Once again, here in the House of Representatives, we have worked to pass President Trump’s agenda and succeeded. We are working every day to make sure the hardworking middle class - the backbone of the country and the 4th District - are not forgotten like they have been for the past eight years.”
10.12.2017	Washington, D.C. — Our nation’s service academies are elite institutions that train students to excel in academics and military affairs. These institutions seek well-rounded individuals with a high level of academic achievement, as well as a commitment to athletics, student activities, and civic organizations. Famous graduates of these institutions include Presidents Ulysses S. Grant, Dwight D. Eisenhower, and Jimmy Carter, as well as legendary Generals Robert E. Lee, George Patton, Douglas MacArthur, and Norman Schwarzkopf. The academies have also produced numerous astronauts. The second man to ever walk on the moon–Buzz Aldrin–was a graduate of a U.S. service academy. Congressman Aderholt has the privilege to nominate a limited number of men and women to four of the five service academies. The United States Coast Guard does not accept Congressional nominations, applications must be submitted directly to the Director of Admissions. If you, or a high school student you know, would be interested in a service academy nomination, the deadline is December 1st. For more information please visit the Congressman’s website, www.aderholt.house.gov or call 256-381-3450. In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
09.05.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt today released the following statement on the future of the DACA program. "First, it is important to remember that DACA runs contrary to existing U.S. immigration law. It is the product of the Obama administration's executive order where he, President Obama, disagreed with current law. “I, and I believe most Americans, are sympathetic to the children brought to this country at a young age, many only a few months old. However, at the same time, you have to remember that the parents are responsible for the children's lack of legal status, not the government. The government has a responsibility to enforce the laws on the books. “I believe that before passing any legislation that deals with DACA, Congress must first address border control and stopping illegal crossings at will. For Congress to do nothing about securing the border would be a disservice to our nation. It would be foolish to deal with one problem, without first addressing the underlying cause, which is a lack of border security.” In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
06.26.2017	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Robert Aderholt, released the following statement in regard to latest developments concerning the American Health Care Reform Act. “Back in March, I sat down with the President in the Oval Office to discuss concerns about the affordability of healthcare premiums for older, low-income adults. The President looked me in the eye and said that he would make sure we did better. True to the President’s word, the Senate bill confirms the efforts we have made by reducing the average premium by $8,100 for this population. This was achieved in a conservative manner, using tax credits instead of entitlement spending. “This healthcare bill is not perfect. Obamacare did a lot of damage, and it will take more than one bill to dig us out of this hole. That said, this bill is a step in the right direction where people can find healthcare coverage that they can afford and actually use.” In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
06.14.2017	Washington, D.C. — Today, June 14th, Congressman Robert Aderholt released the following statement after reports of a shooting at GOP baseball practice in Alexandria, Virginia. “My prayers go out to those who have been hurt this morning. It’s my understanding that several people have been shot, including my colleague and friend Steve Scalise. I ask for everyone’s prayers for those who have been hurt. Also, thank you to all those who have reached out to check on me this morning. My staff and I are fine.” In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
06.13.2017	Washington, D.C. — Today, June 13th, Congressman Robert Aderholt released the following statement after Attorney General Jeff Sessions testified before the Senate intelligence committee “Jeff Sessions testimony showed that he is not far removed from the Eagle Scout who grew up in Camden, Alabama. His testimony today was honest, open and direct. And just as the Scout oath says, I believe Sessions will continue to do his duty to God and to his country. “If there is anything there, I certainly believe we need to get to the bottom of the attempts by the Russian government to influence our election process. However, I have still not seen a single piece of evidence that Russian interference changed a single vote back on November 8th and certainly not thousands of votes that were cast for Mr. Trump in Pennsylvania, Michigan and Wisconsin.” In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
06.08.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt today released the following statement on the testimony of former FBI Director James Comey. "There has been a lot of talk and speculation about what Mr. Comey would say today, but as we listened to the testimony, I think it is important to note what he didn’t say. “Mr. Comey did not say how the Russians somehow convinced Hillary Clinton to put a private email server in her basement. He also did not reveal how the Russians and/or the Trump campaign convinced Mrs. Clinton’s campaign to completely ignore the mathematically critical states of Pennsylvania, Michigan and Wisconsin during the last months of the 2016 campaign. “Simply put, anyone would be concerned about the Russians or any foreign country trying to involve themselves in American elections. But I think it is equally important to note that they did not affect the outcome. That belongs to the candidates.” In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
05.04.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement in regard to the vote in the U.S. House of Representatives to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. “Today I voted for, and the House passed, what the Republicans have promised to do for the past seven years: repeal and replace Obamacare. Contrary to claims in the media, doing nothing was not an option. Obamacare is failing us and premiums are getting worse, not better. Americans continue to see their healthcare options dwindle. Obamacare has also led to more expensive insurance that Americans cannot afford to use – higher premiums and higher deductibles. Today’s vote addresses these issues head-on. “This bill ensures that individuals with preexisting conditions will continue to have insurance coverage. There is also assistance for older, rural and poor seniors included in this bill. In addition, today’s vote repeals all of the Medicaid funds from Planned Parenthood and instead redirects this money to the Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHCs). This amounts to 90% of the federal funds received by Planned Parenthood.”
03.24.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement after the AHA was pulled from consideration. "There is a lot of disappointment with the healthcare bill being pulled from the House floor for a vote. I was planning to vote ‘yes’ today to repeal Obamacare, however the entrenched power of ‘no’ has continued gridlock in Washington. There are a number of my colleagues on all sides of the political spectrum that just cannot get to a “yes” vote for any legislation of significance. This is the tide that the President is swimming against and what is holding back a repeal and replacement of Obamacare. I still have hope that we can continue to work on this repeal bill and replace Obamacare." In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
03.20.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today called for entries in the 2017 Congressional Art Competition. “I am pleased once again to be a sponsor of the United States Congressional Art Competition for high school students within the 4th District. This is an annual nationwide event that recognizes and encourages the artistic talent we have in our district. Students in grades 9-12 are encouraged to compete. “The 2017 Congressional Art Competition award ceremony and reception will be held at the Guntersville Museum. The date for the ceremony is Monday, April 17th at 10 a.m. All students participating in the competition, along with their parents and art teachers, are invited to attend the reception. “The ‘Best of Show’ artwork will represent Alabama’s 4th Congressional District by being displayed in the U.S. Capitol Complex for an entire year. In addition to having his or her artwork displayed in Washington, the winner will be awarded two round-trip airline tickets and $500 for expenses to attend the National Exhibition Reception in Washington, D.C. this summer. “High School students wishing to compete should check with their school’s art teacher or administrators. High Schools within the 4th District will be receiving letters with more details. Students who are home-schooled are also eligible to participate. For more information, please contact Pam Abernathy in our Gadsden District Office at 256-546-0201 or by email at pam.abernathy@mail.house.gov. We look forward to seeing the creations of students in the 4th District on display soon in Guntersville.” In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
03.17.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement after meeting with President Trump in the Oval Office. “President Trump called me to the Oval Office this morning to discuss the American Healthcare Act, because of his understanding that I could not support the current language of the bill. “I expressed to the President my concern around the treatment of older, poorer Americans in states like Alabama. I reminded him that he received overwhelming support from Alabama’s voters. The President listened to the fact that a 64-year-old person living near the poverty line was going to see their insurance premiums go up from $1700 to $14,600 per year. The President looked me in the eye and said, ‘These are my people and I will not let them down. We will fix this for them.’ "I also asked the President point blank if this House bill was the one that he supported. He told me he supports it ‘one thousand percent.’ “After receiving the President’s word that these concerns will be addressed, I changed my vote to yes.”
03.16.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement in regard to the proposed 2018 Fiscal Year Budget. "With a mounting federal debt approaching $20 trillion dollars, cutting government spending should be everyone's priority. This is an important first step," said Congressman Robert Aderholt, a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, which is charged with funding the federal government. " Many of these reductions, such as cutting the EPA back down to size, are well overdue. However, I am somewhat skeptical about cuts to programs essential to rural Americans." "It is important to note that, while this is just the first step in the process, it is an important one in the right direction." In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
03.02.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement in regard to allegations of improper meetings between then Senator Jeff Sessions and foreign diplomats. “The unsubstantiated allegations about Russian coordination are becoming almost like the ‘birther’ issue of the Democratic party,” said Robert Aderholt.“ It is not at all unusual for members of Congress to speak with ambassadors from other countries on an almost weekly basis. The fact of the matter is that Jeff Sessions is an American patriot who would not do anything to jeopardize the sanctity and security of the country he not only has served for decades, but a country he deeply loves. “These allegations are nothing more than a partisan smoke screen to detract from the fact Donald Trump won the election fair and square. It is like some of the Democrats counted their chickens before they were hatched and now have egg on their faces.” In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
03.01.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) tonight released the following statement in regard to President Donald Trump’s message to a joint session of Congress. “As I expected and hoped for, President Trump gave a message to Congress that he is committed to making sure Washington is no longer 'business as usual.’ After eight years of a White House that took a passive, apologetic approach to America and the world, we finally have a President who has announced America is back and literally wants it to be great again. “President Trump’s plan to strengthen our military is greatly needed. If we are to win the war against ISIS, contain China, and keep a watchful eye on Russia, the size and capability of our armed forces needs to increase. “I am also glad to hear that the President will put forth a plan to rein in the Federal bureaucracy. For example, the EPA has run amok with a busy-body attitude with farmers that literally tried to regulate mud puddles on their farms, not to mention the ‘War on Coal.’ “However, President Trump has now passed the baton to Congress. It is now up to us. We must get to work to accomplish the mandate voters sent in November or Congress will face the people’s wrath next year.” In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
02.01.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) tonight released the following statement after President Donald Trump announced his choice to fill the vacancy on the Supreme Court of the United States. “Judge Neil Gorsuch appears to be an excellent choice to serve on our nation’s highest court. The most important duty of a Supreme Court Justice is solely to interpret the United States Constitution as it is written. The court does not need activist judges who ignore our founding document and simply write new laws. Many are confident that Judge Gorsuch has the judicial temperament to let the letter of the law govern his decisions. Based on Gorsuch’s record, I believe he will follow the example of the late Justice Antonin Scalia and examine the law through the lens of the constitution.” In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
01.04.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement on being sworn in for another term serving as Alabama's 4th Congressional District Representative. "It was such an honor to take the oath of office for another term representing the people of the 4th Congressional District and the state of Alabama. It was also a special blessing to have my wife, daughter and son join me as I took the oath. Now the hard part begins. I will work with my Republican colleagues, and soon-to-be President Trump, to see that a new agenda for the American people is our top priority. I would like to thank the people of Alabama for their confidence in me." In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
12.19.2016	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement after attending the vote of Alabama’s nine members of the Electoral College where they cast their votes for Donald Trump and Mike Pence. “I was both honored and humbled to be in attendance today as the nine Alabama members of the Electoral College cast their votes. Also, I appreciated the opportunity to speak on behalf of the other members of the Alabama Congressional Delegation at the Capitol in Montgomery. As expected, the nine electors cast their votes for Donald J. Trump for President of the United States and Mike Pence for Vice President of the United States. “Watching the electoral process playout is truly like having a front row seat to watching the United States Constitution work and perform just as our Founders intended more than 200 years ago. John Adams summed up the reasoning behind our system of electing Presidents when he wrote about his fear of ‘tyranny of the majority.’ The Electoral College is in place to assure that the voices in small to medium sized states are not drowned out by the wishes of the largest states. The Founders’ system works. “Now the hard part begins. With the election of Mr. Trump, the voters gave marching orders. Those orders are clear and come January, I will work with my Republican colleagues to see that a new agenda for the American people is our top priority.”
11.14.2016	p.p1 {margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; font: 19.0px Calibri; -webkit-text-stroke: #000000} span.s1 {font-kerning: none} Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement to congratulate Donald Trump and Governor Mike Pence on being elected to the Presidency of the United States. “I want to congratulate Donald Trump and Governor Mike Pence on their decisive victory in Tuesday’s election. Donald Trump began a movement in June of 2015 that had been boiling just beneath the surface in our country. People who felt left out, left behind and sick of eight years of failed liberal policies delivered a revolution at the ballot box. “Voters across America, from the South, to the West, from the Rust Belt to the Sun Belt, delivered a mandate of change by putting Republicans in charge of the White House and both Houses of Congress. We now must deliver on the promises we have made to the people during this election cycle. “In addition to repealing and replacing Obamacare, tackling immigration reform and once and for all securing our border, we need to provide relief for the American worker. Coal miners and farmers are being crushed by EPA regulations. Steel workers are losing jobs to bad trade deals. And a majority of Americans, even those who voted for Secretary Clinton, believe our country is headed in the wrong direction. It’s time to change course. “The voters gave marching orders at the polls on Tuesday. Those orders are clear and I will work with my Republican colleagues to see that a new agenda for the American people is our top priority.”
10.28.2016	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement in regard to the news the Federal Bureau of Investigation is reopening its investigation into Hillary Clinton’s private email server. “I was not surprised to learn that the FBI has launched a new investigation into the private server of Secretary Clinton. Clinton has repeatedly put her own need for secrecy ahead of protecting our own national secrets. “Director Comey made the correct decision to reopen this case without regard to the current political environment. Doing what is right should never take a backseat to whether an election is 11 days away or 111 days away. In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
07.12.2016	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement in regard to his efforts to help stop the genocide, rape and torture of Christians and other religious groups in ISIS held territories. “I am pleased to report that I have been able to secure language in the House Appropriations Committee to provide targeted humanitarian assistance to Christians, Yazidis and other religious minorities who are attempting to flee the war-torn and ISIS controlled areas of Syria and Iraq. “Most of us have seen the images of the thousands of people who are fleeing the Syrian Civil War and escaping from the deadly reach of ISIS. While most of the attention has been focused on those of the Muslim faith, Christians and other groups are actually at the top of ISIS’ “hit list” in that region and need protection. “President Obama has stated an intention to resettle 10,000 Syrian refugees in the United States this year. It is in the best interest of our country to ensure that these groups being targeted for genocide are among those who are being aided in this process. “Before civil war erupted in Syria in 2011, 10% of the population there were Christian. Since then, the U.S. has resettled just over 70 Christians. Why? There are documented reports that Christians and others are targets of violence, rape, and killings, even in the camps run by the United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR). The people who need help are unable to access it. We must do better. “It is urgent – morally, and also in terms of national security – to ensure that the refugee program protects families whose religious or ethnic background has made them the target of organized persecution and genocide. “The language I was able to secure in this legislation will, among other purposes, help provide secure locations where Christians can safely register for refugee resettlement assistance. “As a nation that was founded on Judeo-Christian principles, we are called upon to help our brothers and sisters whose lives and safety are jeopardized. But like you, I strongly believe that taxpayer dollars must be spent responsibly and with strong oversight, especially when these dollars are going overseas for foreign aid. This new language does not add new money, but will instead focus our limited resources on those who need it most. In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission.
06.12.2016	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) this evening released the following statement in regard to the terrorist shooting in Orlando, Florida. “I was sad to hear about the terrorist attacks in Orlando, on American soil. This and other attacks we have seen, prove that we do not have the luxury of debating the political correctness of 'radical Islam '. We need to focus on these and other terrorists and do whatever it takes to identify and hunt down those who would do us harm. “It was disheartening to hear some in the media, and even the President in his initial remarks, use this tragedy as a means to push any type of political agenda relating to gun control. Terrorists by their very definition are criminals and will find a way get their hands on guns. What the president is proposing would take guns away from the very people who would defend themselves. “That said, it is too soon to inject politics into the discussion. The White House and Congress should focus on the task at hand - protecting the homeland.” In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
05.17.2016	Muscle Shoals, Ala. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following list of winners from the 2016 4th Congressional District Art Competition. Congressman Aderholt is pictured with Best of Show winner Ellie Blackwelder of Guntersville High School and her art teacher Val Jones. The Best of Show went to Ellie Blackwelder of Guntersville High School. Her paiting titled “The Stray,” will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol Complex for the next year. She will also received two roundtrip airline tickets to attend the national ceremony in Washington. Other Category Winners: Paintings – Maggie Bachman, Guntersville High School Drawings – Sarah Latham, Sumiton Christian School Collages – AnnMarie Early, DAR High School Prints – Chris Manasco, Haleyville High School Mixed Media – Katheryn Johnson, Asbury High School Computer Generated – Victoria Smith, Cullman High School Photography – Cameron Persky, Sumtton Christian School In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
03.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) released a statement calling for entries in the 2016 4th District Art Competition. “I am pleased once again to be a sponsor of the United States Congressional Art Competition for high school students within the 4th District. This is an annual nationwide event that recognizes and encourages the artistic talent we have in our district. Students in grades 9-12 are encouraged to compete. “The 2016 Congressional Art Competition award ceremony and reception will be held at Northwest Shoals Community College in Muscle Shoals, Ala. The date for the ceremony is Tuesday, May 3rd at 10:30 a.m. All students participating in the competition, along with their parents and art teachers are invited to attend the reception where refreshments will be served. “The ‘Best of Show’ artwork will represent Alabama’s 4th Congressional District by being displayed in the U.S. Capitol Complex for an entire year. Attached you will find a photo of the drawing done by last year’s winner, Guntersville’s Cadley Jackson. In addition to having his or her artwork displayed in Washington, the winner will be awarded two round-trip airline tickets and $500 for expenses to attend the National Exhibition Reception in Washington, D.C. this summer. “High School students wishing to compete should check with their school’s art teacher or administrators. High Schools within the 4th District will be receiving letters with more details. Students who are home-schooled are also eligible to participate. For more information please contact Pam Abernathy in our Gadsden District Office at 256-546-0201 or by email at pam.abernathy@mail.house.gov. We look forward to seeing the creations of students in the 4th District on display soon in Muscle Shoals.” In Washington Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress and the 4th District Art Competition visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
02.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), today released a statement on introducing H.R. 4540, a bill that enables states to drug test SNAP/Food Stamp recipients, thereby cutting fraud with the savings going to drug treatment programs. "Millions of hard working Americans get up to go to work in factories, on farms and other places to pay the taxes that provide welfare assistance to those that qualify," said Congressman Robert Aderholt, chairman of the Agriculture Appropriations subcommittee with jurisdiction over SNAP. "This is meant to be temporary assistance, not a way of life. Many major employers and small businesses require applicants to pass a drug test, this bill will ensure that welfare recipients are job-ready. " "If a welfare recipient has the money to buy drugs then they have the money to buy food. The federal government should not be enabling people to fund their drug addiction at taxpayer expense. “This bill provides states with the ability to identify those who are gaming the system as well as those who are struggling with addiction. For those struggling, it provides funds to assist states in providing drug treatment. “The goal is not only to break welfare recipients dependence on government programs but also on their addiction to drugs. “SNAP, the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, is used by 46 million Americans. The number of Americans on the program has doubled during the last seven years. With this large number of people on the program, it’s crucial that states have the ability to protect the integrity and purpose of the program.” In Washington Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
02.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement regarding his vote to override the President’s veto of the Obamacare Repeal. “This afternoon I cast a vote to override President Obama’s recent veto of H.R. 3762, which would have repealed the Affordable Care Act (better known as Obamacare). Ultimately the override attempt failed, but when this bill actually landed on the President’s desk last month, it forced him to look squarely in the face of the American people’s discontent and to defend his actions. The president can no longer look the other way, pretending that Obamacare is some sort of success. “Since Obamacare’s implementation in 2013, millions upon millions of Americans have seen their premiums, deductibles and out of pocket expenses dramatically increase while the quality of their coverage has decreased. Serious change is needed to salvage our healthcare system and our family’s pocketbooks. The vote today to override the veto was an attempt to repeal Obamacare and move Members of Congress towards agreement that the law needs to be fixed. “Just as important, this bill would not only have repealed Obamacare, it would also have stopped all federal dollars from flowing to Planned Parenthood. While this legislation ultimately was vetoed , this conservative Congress has laid the framework for how Congress will overturn this disastrous law after a Republican President is sworn into office next January.” In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
01.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) this evening released the following statement upon attending President Obama’s State of the Union address. "The good news is that this was the President’s final State of the Union address. The bad news is that just like his previous seven addresses to Congress, it was unfortunately filled with the rhetoric, partisanship and divisiveness the American people have rejected. “President Obama is probably now worried about his legacy and exactly how he will be remembered. I do not think history will be kind to President Obama. We have seen that Obamacare is an abject failure. There is still no plan for defeating ISIS. The Iranian deal has isolated our allies while emboldening our enemies. And it is not fiction that our economy actually remains stagnant both in terms of growth and take home pay. "The focus of my conservative colleagues and I is to spend the next year focused on restoring a confident America and getting back to the basic principles of the Constitution. An America where people are empowered to make their own decisions and go after their own dreams and get government out of the way.” In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
01.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. — "When I compare the original Dietary Guidelines Advisory Committee report to the final Dietary Guidelines, it is clear to me and my colleagues that the Administration wisely listened to the science and dismissed the interests of political activists,” said Congressman Robert Aderholt who chairs the Agriculture Appropriations. “I am glad that we were able to beat back this regulatory overreach by the administration’s panel and let common sense win the day.” Today the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the U.S. Department of Agriculture issued the 2015-2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans. I appreciate that the final guidelines adhere to the requirements of the law by making science-based dietary and nutritional recommendations. More than a year ago, I sent a warning to USDA Secretary Vilsack that the guidelines must be based upon sound science and not include extraneous factors beyond the scope of nutritional information. This message was repeated when the U.S. House Agriculture Committee held a hearing with both HHS Secretary Burwell and USDA Secretary Vilsack in October. It was repeated again when Congress included statutory language that I fought for in the fiscal year 2016 omnibus spending bill which clearly states the final guidelines must be based upon significant scientific agreement and be limited to nutritional and dietary information. I applaud both Secretaries for following this mandate. The 2015-2020 Dietary Guidelines continue to support the important role meat and poultry products have in a healthy, balanced diet. It also continues to emphasize the importance of fruits, vegetables, whole grains, fat-free or low-fat dairy products while recommending some food ingredients be limited. I want to caution the Administration not to place blame on a few ingredients as the main cause for obesity and chronic diseases. The recommendations for increased physical activity coupled with a balanced eating pattern is key to a healthy lifestyle. Moving forward, the fiscal year 2016 omnibus included funding for the National Academy of Medicine to conduct a comprehensive study of the entire dietary guideline process. I am hopeful this study will be informative to ensure future dietary guidelines are transparent, balanced, and based on sound science. In Washington Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
01.06.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), today released a statement concerning his vote to repeal Obamacare and to target funding for Planned Parenthood. “This is the first time since Obamacare was forced on the American people in 2010 that a bill which actually repeals Obamacare will land on the President’s desk. For the first time, the President will have to sign the bill or veto it – no hiding behind comments about Congress. In these six years it has become clear Obamacare is a failed law. How do we know it has failed? Just look to the millions of families across our country that are struggling each month to pay higher premiums with huge out of pocket expenses for less coverage. “This bill today is just the beginning of the legislative confrontations that will occur under the new Speaker. Along with fighting Obamacare, it is just as important to fight Planned Parenthood and its atrocious activities. Congress is not going to take a back-seat to the presidential campaigns. Instead, we will assert the people's priorities through legislation. The time to act is now, as the country and the American people cannot wait any longer. “It is not enough to try to play defense against the President's failed policies; instead we will roll up our sleeves to craft tough legislation and take the fight to the White House. We must take the fight to the President -- as only Nick Saban can win playing defense all the time." In Washington Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
01.04.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement after learning from news reports that President Obama plans to use an Executive Order this week to implement new gun control measures. “It is unbelievable and I’m at a loss of words at the news President Obama plans to sidestep the Constitution once again in order to circumvent Congress in his efforts to diminish gun owner’s rights in America. This is just another example of President Obama’s attempts to impose his failed agenda on the American people in the waning months of his Presidency. “There is not proof that the new restrictions President Obama proposes would have prevented any of the recent cases of gun violence in our country. I’m also confident that these new proposed restrictions on the Second Amendment will not stop any future incidents. As we know our problem in America is not a gun problem. It is a cultural problem and a problem of the heart by these criminals. No new gun laws can change the attitude of someone who is so lost in this world that they are bent on killing others.” In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
12.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), today released a statement concerning the expected influx of passport renewals in the coming months. “2016 will mark the 10th anniversary of the ‘Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative.' This was a measure put in place after the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. It requires a passport for U. S. Citizens traveling to Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean. Before the act was put in place, a valid drivers license was all that was required. In early 2006, as the law went into place, many people across the country had booked vacation plans but were not aware of the new passport requirements. As you can imagine, many people had to apply for expedited passports. “It has now been 10 years since these new requirements went into effect. Passports must be renewed every 10 years as well, so many of those people who got their first passports back in 2006 will soon need to have their passports renewed. Since the United States Department of State expects a surge in passport renewal applications, I encourage people to get out their passports and check the expiration date. “Passports can easily be renewed. Simply visit travel.state.gov for more information. If you have any questions or my staff and I can assist in any way, please give one of our district offices a call. Thank you and it is my honor to serve you in Washington.” In Washington Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
11.19.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), today release a statement on his vote in favor of toughening restrictions on Syrian and Iraqi refugees seeking admittance to the United States. "This bill provides protection for the American people. It appears that the President opposes this bill because it is tough and establishes some tough criteria for any Syrian or Iraqi to be granted refugee status in our country. Some have asked why Congress would do something like this. We do not lock the doors of our homes at night because we hate the people outside but because we love the people within. “It is important to note that one of the reasons we have a Syrian refugee crisis in the first place is due to the President’s policies in the Middle East and how they simply have not worked. Two years ago when he referred to ISIS as the “JV Squad,” he made it clear his administration underestimated the threat of this group. “There is concern that the State Department and the Department of Homeland Security would not do an adequate job in vetting these refugees unless more guidelines are imposed. Currently the public is very skeptical of the Department of Homeland Security along with the Department of State. There needs to be more oversight by Congress.” In Washington Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
10.19.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement in regard to funding from the U.S. Department of the Interior in the form of Land and Water Conservation grants to Desoto and Lake Guntersville State Parks. “I was pleased to hear the news today that both Desoto State Park in DeKalb County and Lake Guntersville State Park in Marshall County have been awarded Land and Water Conservation Grants. The grants are intended to promote and improve the respective parks. “The Lake Guntersville State Park in Guntersville will receive $50,000. Desoto State Park in Fort Payne will receive $56,007 to replace restrooms, add picnic areas and renovate parking. “These two state parks are among the most beautiful in Alabama. I’m happy they will be receiving these funds to help tourism and promote economic growth in Marshall and DeKalb counties." In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
10.01.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement in regard to his no vote for a Continuing Resolution (CR) that would fund the Federal Government through December 11, 2015. “This afternoon I cast a vote against the Continuing Resolution that was before the House of Representatives. My no vote was for one reason: in that this legislation continues to fully fund Planned Parenthood. In good conscience I could not vote to continue the flow of taxpayer dollars to an organization that engages in something so horrific as selling parts of aborted babies. “Let me be clear, I don’t support a government shut down. However, this was simply a vote to do what’s right. I, along with my fellow Republicans, was willing to fund every department, every service and every agency of the federal government except for Planned Parenthood. It is hard to believe the Democrats in the Senate would filibuster continued government funding for the entire federal government for one program like Planned Parenthood.” In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
09.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement in regard to the announcement that House Speaker John Boehner will resign effective October 30th. “While not everyone agreed with Speaker Boehner 100 percent of the time, he worked hard to advance conservative principles of smaller government, curtailing regulatory overreach and reducing government spending. “Since taking back the House of Representatives in 2010, the Republicans in Congress have reduced the annual budget deficit from the Obama high of $1.3 trillion in 2010 to $490 billion this year. Furthermore, discretionary spending has been cut to pre-Obama levels and is currently around 2007 spending levels. “It is now time to look forward as to who will lead with conservative principles in Congress.” In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
09.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement in regard to Pope Francis’ address to a Joint Session of Congress. “It was certainly an honor to hear Pope Francis’ historic address to Congress. Not only was it the first address to Congress from a Pope, the fact that he is both the leader of a state and the head of the largest Christian denomination in the world gives it added importance. “For me, some of the highlights of his address that I was glad to see were his emphasis on the sanctity of human life at all stages of development, the importance of the traditional family and protecting religious freedoms around the world. Also, hearing the pope echo the words of Jesus as he spoke in the chamber were welcomed by Republicans and Democrats. “As to the other, more political issues discussed, Washington already has its fair share of politics and could use more of the good news of the Gospel.” In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
09.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement on two fire departments in DeKalb County receiving AFG grants. “I am very pleased to announce that the Fyffe and Henagar Fire Departments will both be receiving grants. The Fyffe grant is in the amount of $147,620 and will be used for vehicle acquisition. The Henagar grant is in the amount of $40,778. These funds will be used in the daily operations of the department. “While I know everyone in these departments is excited to hear about these grants, they, like myself, realize it will be the people in these two communities who will benefit. This money will be used to help protect life and property for years to come. In those terms, these funds are truly a bargain. “I am glad that our office was able to offer assistance in helping obtain these grants and look forward to seeing how they will help our area. In Washington Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
09.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement on the Cullman Fire Department receiving a Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Grant. “I am very pleased to announce that the Cullman Fire Department will receive this grant. The grant is in the amount of $1,137,816. This money will be used to hire additional firefighters for the city. “While I know everyone at the Cullman Fire Department and in the Mayor’s office is excited to hear about this grant, they, like myself, realize it will be the people of Cullman who will benefit. This money will be used to hire and train a new generation of firefighters who will protect life and property for decades to come. In those terms, $1,137,816 is a bargain. “I am glad that our office was able to offer assistance in Cullman obtaining this grant and look forward to seeing how it will help our area. In Washington Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
09.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement in regard to his vote to defund Planned Parenthood. The Congressman is also calling on the Senate to change its rules to allow the democratic process to go forward. “Today I voted to prevent taxpayer dollars from going to Planned Parenthood, an organization that sells the parts of murdered babies for money, and to protect babies that survive abortions. “The Defund Planned Parenthood Act and the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act are among the most important votes I will cast this year because they represent an attempt to protect the most vulnerable among us. “Many Alabamians have now seen or at least heard about the deplorable undercover videos that show Planned Parenthood leadership casually discussing the best techniques for preserving the organs of aborted babies so they can be resold for maximum compensation. “Planned Parenthood has no business receiving money from American taxpayers. “One example close to home is the revelation by the Alabama Department of Public Health that the Mobile Planned Parenthood office performed two abortions on a 14-year-old girl in less than four months. She also had two other living children. Yet Planned Parenthood employees never notified authorities of the obvious sexual abuse. “While I’m pleased that both of these bills passed in the House, I know that their future in the United States Senate is not bright. While members of the House, both Republicans and Democrats, allow the democratic process to play out, in the Senate it’s a different story. The Senate is the place where democracy goes to sleep. Senate Democrats use the filibuster and threat of a filibuster to kill bills—never allowing them to come to a vote. “I believe it is time for the Senate to change its rules. The filibuster was never intended to repeatedly stop bill after bill that one party disagrees with from ever being considered on the Senate Floor—and that is what is happening. “If the President doesn’t like a bill he has the power of the veto, but it is unacceptable to stop bills from being voted on. Whether it is defunding Planned Parenthood, reversing the President’s immigration executive overreach or trying to stop a flawed Iran nuclear deal, these obstructionist tactics need to stop.” In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
08.26.2015	HALEYVILLE, AL — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement upon the announcement of Dr. Robert Witt’s upcoming retirement in August 2016 as Chancellor of the University of Alabama System. “I want to congratulate Dr. Witt on the announcement of his upcoming retirement. While it is well deserved after his decades of service to higher education, Dr. Witt will be greatly missed. “Dr. Witt has always been a champion of the University of Alabama System and his leadership has been instrumental in guiding the UA System to great heights of success. Before moving into the Chancellor post, Whitt served as President of the University of Alabama during nine years that were arguably among the University’s most successful both academically and athletically. “Vice-chancellor Ray Hayes will have big shoes to fill. However, I know he has many supporters like myself to help ensure he can continue the success seen under Dr. Witt. “ In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
07.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), today released the following statement in regard to the proposed nuclear deal with Iran. "It seems that Israel’s very existence is always hanging in the balance. Furthermore, it is disturbing that just in the past week the supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei stated he hoped that the prayers of Iran would be answered and that death would come to America and Israel. Their own words clearly tell the story of the end-game Iran would pursue if equipped with a nuclear arsenal. Even under the best of circumstances, an inspection deal with a government like Iran’s is high-risk. “I am concerned that this Administration has taken a naïve approach to foreign affairs where they believe that appeasement will somehow lead to nuclear containment. One need only to ask a WWII veteran to be reminded of a similar example of such incompetent diplomacy. With the built-in agreements allowing Iran to conduct side agreements without the United States, and the exclusion of American inspectors, and absurdly long notifications before inspections, this so-called deal I am afraid will end up protecting Iran’s nuclear path to a bomb, rather than blocking it. “The bottom-line is that appeasement is not a valid approach to foreign policy and certainly will not work with Iran. Given the lack of instant verification, murky side deals with the United Nations, and the penchant for power within the Middle East, I believe the best choice is to stand with our ally, Israel, and oppose President Obama’s Iran Deal.” In Washington Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
06.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement in regard to the Supreme Court of the United States’ ruling in Obergefell v. Hodges. “The Supreme Court’s decision regarding same-sex marriage today is greatly disappointing, and I share a heavy-heart with many of my fellow Americans. I believe with this decision the court has crowned itself the arbiter of social and cultural change, rather than just simply interpreting the law. “One of my chief concerns with this decision is the impact it could have on religious freedoms in our country. Will this decision be used by the Federal Government to force churches, religious organizations and religious educational institutions to violate their core convictions? “I believe this ruling will eventually force a showdown between citizens who support the First Amendment and those who don't. The First Amendment says the Federal Government will not deny the free exercise of religion. However, I fear this ruling will lead to exactly that situation. “I will be working with my conservative colleagues in Congress to ensure that the Federal Government does not use this ruling to further endanger our religious liberties.” In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement in regard to the Supreme Court of the United States’ ruling in King v. Burwell. “This decision today has been disappointing and surprising to so many of us on Capitol Hill. The Supreme Court continues to see gray when it comes to the black letter of the law as written in Obamacare’s base text in the Affordable Care Act. If you look at the way the Democrats actually wrote the law, it seems to be very clear that subsidies were not available for those in the federal exchanges. This was not a typo. The language was written as it was written. “I think that everyone agrees that our healthcare system needed changes and improvements. However, this was a typical bureaucratic, overreaching approach to a situation that did not need to be nearly as complicated. “Five years after Obamacare became law, it is more clear that ever this was the wrong prescription for our healthcare system. Many have seen their premiums and deductibles shoot skyward, while their overall coverage has been weakened. Most Americans have found that the Affordable Care Act is anything but affordable.” In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
06.19.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement in regard to the Russellville Rocket Team winning the annual International Rocketry Challenge at the Paris Air Show. “I can’t begin to tell you how proud I am of this remarkable group of young people from Russellville. I had the honor to meet with them in Washington right before they won the Team America Rocketry Challenge. I could tell from talking with them and hearing about the rockets they were building that this group was destined for great things. “From the Wright Brothers’ flying school in Montgomery to Dr. Warner Von Braun and his rocket team in Huntsville, these young men and women from Russellville are continuing the tradition of Alabama’s rich and storied history in aviation. And what a great honor it is to know they are from Alabama’s 4th Congressional District. “I am looking forward to seeing the students again once they have made their way home. I know that everyone in the 4th District and across our state join me in congratulating the Russellville 7 on winning this prestigious international event.” In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
06.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement in regard a bill put forward by Senator John Thune (R-SD) to consolidate National Weather Service offices into six regional offices. “I have the utmost respect for Senator Thune, however I have to respectfully disagree with this plan to consolidate the country’s National Weather Service offices into six regional offices. “The district I represent in Congress is one of the most tornado prone areas in the United States. On April 27, 2011 more than 100 people in the 4th District alone were killed by tornadoes. If it had not been for the diligence and dedication of the men and women at the Birmingham and Huntsville National Weather Service offices, I have no doubt the death toll would have been much higher. “I believe that consolidating offices would lead to some storms slipping through the cracks and ultimately lives would be lost due to missed warnings and missed opportunities to alert the public. “I believe this would also erode the important relationship between county emergency management agency officials and meteorologists at their local National Weather Service office. As it stands now, an emergency manager can pick up the phone and call someone at their local weather office and talk to someone they know and have a relationship with. Under a consolidation plan, I fear that same emergency manager would just become a cog in the wheel.” In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
06.12.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement in regard to his vote against granting President Barack Obama “fast track” Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) that would enable final negotiations for the Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement (TPP) with Pacific Rim nations. "I am for jobs, American jobs - right here in America. Exports generally equal jobs unless, of course, we are exporting our jobs. The manufacturing base in America - be it steel or socks or widgets - has suffered over the previous agreements and I am not convinced what President Obama will come up with will be much different." In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
05.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) released a statement on his vote in favor of H.R. 36, the Pain Capable Unborn Child Protection Act. “Wednesday, I proudly cast a vote in favor of the Pain Capable Unborn Child Protection Act. As Members of Congress, elected and sworn to protect the Constitution of the United States, we have an obligation to protect innocent life. “Most Americans would find it shocking that the United States is one of only seven countries in the world that allows elective abortions to be performed after 20 weeks. Science has shown us that these unborn children can feel pain. If physicians didn’t believe this, then why would unborn babies who are operated upon in the womb routinely be given anesthesia? “As Americans we like to consider ourselves to be among the most civilized societies in the world. That is why I have such a difficult time understanding why this nation continues to promote, support, and sometimes encourage the act of stopping a precious, defenseless human heartbeat. “As long as I continue to serve as a Member of Congress, I hope to always rise to defend the the most innocent among us with my vote.” In Washington Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress and the 4th District, visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
04.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement on his vote to repeal the estate tax, better known as the “death tax.” “I was pleased that today the House voted to repeal the death tax. This is another burden on families in the 4th District, Alabama and the nation. At a difficult time when families are dealing with the loss of a loved one, the last thing they need is Uncle Sam knocking at the door with his hand out taking advantage of a family’s grief. “Any added revenue the death tax brings into the national treasury is not worth the burden it puts on families and the destruction it causes, especially to small family businesses and family farms. I hope now that the Senate will also pass this legislation and the President will sign it into law. We need to keep family farms and businesses in the family.” In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
04.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) released a statement on the death of Colbert County native Percy Sledge. “I was saddened by the news of Percy Sledge’s death. His great songs like 'When a Man Loves a Woman' have not only added to America’s rich music history, they have brought tremendous pride to his native Leighton, the Shoals and Alabama as a whole. “Sledge’s voice is one of the rich tones that created the “Muscle Shoals Sound.” He rightfully has a place in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and the Alabama Music Hall of Fame. “I send my sincere condolences to Sledge’s family and friends." In Washington Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress and the 4th District Art Competition visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
03.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement in regard to President Obama’s visit to Alabama. "President Obama is looking to regulate the symptoms of the years of sluggish economic recovery instead of addressing the root causes. An overreaching EPA is closing coal fired steam plants and the jobs that go with it. Unfair trade practices are wreaking havoc in the steel and iron industries. It appears that Obamacare is driving up the cost of healthcare for millions and millions of people, while shrinking their paychecks. "These policies have caused companies to lose jobs as close as the steel plant just 20 minutes from where the President's plane landed. Instead of speaking to those workers today's ceremony is about more regulations. It is time to think about growing this economy instead of adding Band-Aid regulations.” In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
03.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) released a statement congratulating schools in the 4th District who are competing in the Capitol Hill Challenge, a stock market education program. “I want to congratulate students from Brookwood and Hanceville High Schools on their participation in the Capitol Hill Challenge. This program fosters an understanding of the stock market and the American economy. “Joey House, the advisor to students at Hanceville competing in the program, said that ‘We are a small, rural school in Cullman County, and few of my students' parents invest in the stock market. This is new stuff for them, but I'm trying to help them see that investing could be a way of changing their family for generations.’ “I couldn’t agree more with Mr. House. I hope that once this competition is completed that they can use the skills they’ve learned and apply them to their future lives and careers. I wish the students from Brookwood and Hanceville all the best in this competition.” More information is available at the Capitol Hill Challenge website here. In Washington Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress and the 4th District visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
03.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement in regard to the appearance of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu before a joint session of Congress. “It was an honor to be in the House Chamber to listen to Prime Minister Netanyahu. I did not want to pass up the opportunity to hear what the leader of one of America’s strongest and most important allies had to say. “Israel’s very existence is always hanging in the balance. The previous leader of Iran, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, made his belief very clear that Israel, a nation of eight million people, must be ‘wiped off the map.’ While Ahmadinejad is no longer in power, the threat of a nuclear armed Iran to Israel and the rest of the world remains. “I stand with Prime Minister Netanyahu in my belief that any negotiations or deals with Iran must be done in a way that ensures the country remains nuclear free. This Administration seems to be taking a naïve approach to foreign affairs. Therefore, it does not give me much comfort that the best interests of Israel or the United States will be at the forefront of any deal. “The United States must continue to do everything possible to ensure that Israel survives and thrives as a shining example of democracy in the Middle East. Anyone who treats Israel as if it is expendable must be dealt with from a standpoint that they are not acting in good faith.” In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
02.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), Chairman of the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies Subcommittee of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement after Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack testified before the Subcommittee. “I would like to thank Secretary Vilsack for appearing in front of the committee today. The Department of Agriculture is without question one of the most important Cabinet Departments. I appreciate the work that the Secretary and the men and women of the department do to ensure America remains the bread basket of the world. “As we dig deeper into the 2016 budgetary process, I reminded Secretary Vilsack of the three goals I have set for this Subcommittee and how they directly relate to the USDA. The first goal is to make sure we are making the most of every tax dollar given to the Department. Secondly, because of continued tight budgets, we must make sure those precious tax dollars are getting to the most important programs and functions of the USDA. Lastly, we must work to ensure the continued vitality of U.S. agriculture, free and fair markets, and safe food and medicines. “I also took the opportunity of Secretary Vilsack’s appearance to ask pointed and direct questions about new dietary recommendations made last week by an advisory committee of supposed experts selected by the Administration. I believe these recommendations, which claim that red meat production is damaging to the environment and proposed taxes on certain foods, go far beyond the panel’s purview. “The Secretary has previously said that these advisory committees have ‘greater latitude to opine’ than he does, but I made it clear to Secretary Vilsack that I along with our committee expect his final report to only include nutrient and dietary recommendations and will not include environmental opinions or extraneous factors.” In Washington Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
02.19.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) released a statement calling for entries in the 2015 4th District Art Competition. “I am pleased once again to be a sponsor of the United States Congressional Art Competition for high school students within the 4th District. This is an annual nationwide event that recognizes and encourages the artistic talent we have in our district. Students in grades 9-12 are encouraged to compete. “The 2015 Congressional Art Competition award ceremony and reception will be held at the Evelyn Burrow Center for Fine and Performing Arts at Wallace State Community College in Hanceville. The date for the ceremony is Monday, May 4 at 10 a.m. All students participating in the competition, along with their parents and art teachers are invited to attend the reception where refreshments will be served. “The ‘Best of Show’ artwork will represent Alabama’s 4th Congressional District by being displayed in the U.S. Capitol Complex for an entire year. Attached you will find a photo of the painting done by last year’s winner, Guntersville’s Helen Nguyen, as it is currently displayed inside the Capitol. In addition to having his or her artwork displayed in Washington, the winner will be awarded two round-trip airline tickets and $500 for expenses to attend the National Exhibition Reception in Washington, D.C. this summer. “High School students wishing to compete should check with their school’s art teacher or administrators. High Schools within the 4th District will be receiving letters with more details. Students who are home-schooled are also eligible to participate. For more information please contact Pam Abernathy in our Gadsden District Office at 256-546-0201 or by email at pam.abernathy@mail.house.gov. We look forward to seeing the creations of students in the 4th District on display soon at Wallace State.” In Washington Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress and the 4th District Art Competition visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
02.12.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In a rare bicameral press conference, House and Senate Republicans gathered to highlight the minority party in the Senate’s blockage to funding the Department of Homeland Security. Leadership in both chambers echoed the legislators’ call for an end to the filibuster and noted that, unlike Reid-era leadership, the current Senate leadership has promised the opportunity for amendments. "I think it is clear: the Senate has a bill to fund the Department of Homeland Security, and the only thing getting in its way is a Senate Democratic filibuster,” said Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-AL), Chairman of House Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee. "This issue has grown larger than just DHS funding; the Senate minority is dictating what the House majority can or cannot pass in our chamber. That is not how democracy works,” said Aderholt. "The House passes a bill, the Senate then passes a bill, and then we sit down to discuss it. "I am not sure that there is anything to discuss with the Senate until they pass a funding bill for this department. There is nothing we more can do in the House that the Senate cannot do itself with the legislation that we have already given them." In Washington Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
02.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement in regard to the announcement of the Dreamvision Company’s Soundscape project for Muscle Shoals. “It is always exciting when a new project is announced that promises to bring jobs, tourists and economic opportunity to the 4th District. I am also glad to see that Dreamvision plans to incorporate the Shoals’ rich music heritage into its plans. I know that like so many others, I am eager to see how this project unfolds over the coming years and delivers on those promises.” In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
02.06.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today Congressman Robert Aderholt, (Al-04) released the following statement on the death of Mississippi Congressman Alan Nunnelee. “I was extremely saddened to learn of the passing of Congressman Nunnelee. Not only have we served in Congress together and have adjoining congressional districts, but Caroline and I consider Alan and his wife, Tori, to be dear friends. “Alan loved his state and his country. After a distinguished career in the Mississippi State Senate, Alan was elected to Congress and served with me on the Appropriations Committee. I always looked forward to his warm smile, wit and wisdom and we will miss him as we grapple with the difficult issues before our committee and the Congress. “Alan was also a man of deep, Christian faith. We can all take comfort in knowing that he was ready to leave this life and spend eternity with his heavenly father. “On behalf of Caroline and myself, I send the deepest sympathies to Congressman Nunnelee’s wife Tori, their three children, along with their family and friends. Tori has been a rock and a pillar of Christian faith through what has been a difficult process. She and the entire Nunnelee family will continue to be in our thoughts and prayers.” In Washington Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
02.02.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today Congressman Robert Aderholt (Al-04) released the following statement on President Obama’s proposed FY 2016 budget. “I commend the President for sending Congress his proposed budget during the time-frame required by law. This is the first time in his six years in office he has done so. Unfortunately that’s where most of the positives of this proposed budget end. “In looking over the proposed budget one has to look at a calendar to make sure that this is indeed 2015. This President’s proposals seem more stereotypical of what was seen in the tax and spend days of the late 1970s under Jimmy Carter. “During the President’s State of the Union Speech he touted and took credit for the fact that our budget deficits have shrunk during the past few years. It makes one wonder why he would now want to abandon those measures and increase both spending and taxes, especially considering that our national debt is currently more than $18 trillion! “I think most Americans see increasing taxes as a non-starter. As our economy continues to try and grow out of the worst and longest recession in our history, the last thing we need is to increase the tax burden on job creators. “The 2016 Presidential election is beginning to grab more and more of the national spotlight. With every story on the 2016 race, the current administration becomes less and less relevant. Instead of trying to work with the Republican Congress on a real, passable budget, the President appears to be trying to isolate himself rather than taking advantage of the dwindling time he has left. “In the coming weeks and months, I will be working with my colleagues to construct a budget that meets our nation’s needs, provides for our national security and grows our economy and creates real job growth. I’m hopeful that the President will see the real interests of most Americans and sit down with the Republican Congress to pass a budget that puts America’s future at its core.” In Washington Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
01.20.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) this evening released the following statement in response to President Obama’s State of the Union speech. “This evening I again attended the State of the Union address as I always have since first being elected to Congress. Being a part of this Constitutional requirement is and has always been an honor and from that standpoint it never gets old. “Unfortunately, I cannot say the same thing for most of the President’s ideas and proposals. For the most part, they are the same old tax and spend approaches to our nation’s problems that the President and so many in the Democrat party have rolled out for too many years. “Back in early November of last year, voters across our nation sent a very clear message to 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue: 'Dear Mr. President, the liberal ideas, policies and executive overreach are not the path the American people want to go down. We want a new direction.' “Yet this evening, the President responded to that voter mandate by announcing his continuation of what I think are irresponsible and unworkable policies. “Any new proposals or new programs, such as the President’s free community college tuition idea, need to start with the question of how are we going to pay for this? Our nation is currently 18 trillion dollars in debt, almost half of which was accumulated just during the past six years. “Our budget deficits have shrunk in the past few years and tonight the President took credit for this reduction. It doesn’t take much of a historian to look back and see that it was the President and Democrats who were forced, kicking and screaming, to cut spending. “Our new Congress, with a new Republican majority in the Senate and increased numbers in the House, have new ideas for the American people. The people’s priorities will be our priorities as we focus on economic growth. Instead of a top-down mindset, we will begin with a bottom up approach that focuses on good paying jobs and real pay raises Americans have gone too long without. “I am ready and I know that my Republican colleagues, and some Democrats as well, are ready to start a fresh approach for America that focuses on the future. I’m hopeful that the President will come to see this is what Americans want and won’t stand in the way. The people want new ideas, not the failed policies voters vetoed in November.” In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
01.15.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 15, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today announced USDA funding that will provide approximately $10 million to support conservation and water quality efforts in the state of Alabama. “This funding, provided through the Department of Agriculture’s new Regional Conservation Partnership Program, will go directly to support efforts to keep our state 'Alabama the Beautiful.' “Funding will come from the overall $370 million in federal dollars allocated to the overall program and from $400 million in contributions made by the partners in this new program. “Here in the 4th District, money will be used to protect the watersheds that are vital to so many aspects of life, work, and recreation in North Alabama. Funds will also be used to support and sustain what is known as the Longleaf Pine Range which extends into the southern portion of my district. “In regard to the protection of our water resources, I am pleased to hear that the Alabama Farmers Federation (ALFA) will be the primary partner in using some of these funds to protect our state’s precious watersheds. The Federation has always been a strong supporter of making sure our natural resources are there for future generations to use and enjoy." In Washington, Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
01.14.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 14, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed the “Aderholt Amendment” to defund the President’s amnesty orders within the Fiscal Year 2015 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations bill. “The amendment that I sponsored is an important first step of this new Congress,” said Congressman Robert Aderholt, who, prior to serving as Chairman of Agriculture Appropriations subcommittee, chaired the Department of Homeland Security subcommittee. “It is important that we pass a conservative bill in the House so that the Senate can start from a position of strength. "Legislation is a multi-step process, and that is true of this bill as key parts of it are being used as an addition to the Homeland Security Appropriations bill. It includes portions of a bill by my colleague, Rep. Mick Mulvaney of South Carolina, but adds language originally offered by Rep. Marsha Blackburn to include Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) and much of what has come to be known as 'the Morton Memos.’ Simply put, the language defunds what has become known as the President's amnesty orders, and, among other things, restores the Secure Communities program. "The President's unauthorized program known as deferred action is also terminated— no new applicants are allowed, and holders of a current deferral cannot get those renewed when they expire. "Finally, the bill has language making it illegal for the President to use revenue from visa fees to fund his unconstitutional amnesty orders. "Senator Jeff Sessions has been of tremendous help throughout the process. No one has worked harder on this issue than Jeff, and his efforts have been invaluable. Senator Sessions has his work cut out for him in the Senate, but it has been my intent all along for the House to provide him with a good, conservative bill to work from." Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
01.06.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 6, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today took the oath of office for a 10th term in the United States House of Representatives and introduced legislation to repeal President Obama’s Executive Amnesty actions. “Today I had the privilege to raise my right hand on the floor of the House of Representatives and take the oath of office. I do not take the responsibility that comes with the oath nor the honor of knowing the people of the 4th District have entrusted me to represent them for another two years lightly. “With the start of the 114th Congress, I am more hopeful than I have been in many years that with the help of a Republican controlled Senate and the majority of Republicans in the House, we can make substantive, conservative change for our nation and chart a new course away from the President’s executive overreach and liberal policies that we have seen. “In the oath I took today, I swore to protect and defend the United States Constitution. That also means upholding our nation’s laws and laws passed by Congress concerning immigration. The laws of the land make it clear that it is illegal to enter the United States without going through the proper channels. The President’s order to enact amnesty, issued in November, circumvents Congress and sets a dangerous precedent. “So, today I have introduced legislation that will reverse the President’s executive action. It not only defunds the President’s actions towards amnesty but also removes the President’s discretion in the ability to grant work permits, Social Security, and other federal benefits that go along with his order. “My legislation will also put limits on the President’s future ability to enact such wide-reaching actions that circumvent the Constitution’s separation of powers. It returns the legislative authority of our government back to the legislative branch. “As we begin this new session of Congress, it will be the President’s first experience working with a Congress entirely controlled by the Republicans. I hope that Mr. Obama understands that the American people spoke very loudly during the election in November and want a new direction away from his liberal policies.” Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
09.17.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 17, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today announced his vote against authorizing President Obama to raise, train, and equip a rebel army to fight in Syria’s Civil War. “The same question that haunted President Obama a year ago when dealing with the his ‘red-line’ statement about Syrian President Assad using chemical weapons persists today – who are the good people in the region to whom we should provide arms, ammunition, and training,” said Robert Aderholt. “The simple fact remains that we have made very little progress in identifying viable opposition parties on the ground in Syria. “The President has not done enough groundwork in the past year to develop a coalition of countries willing to join us in the fight against Assad and now ISIL. Despite a vested interest in seeing the advancement of ISIS halted, no country has committed its troops to this cause and precious few have pledged to help fund the efforts against them. “We all agree that we need to fight ISIL and I fully support the President’s resolve in that regard. However, funding a group of rebels we know very little about is dangerous to say the least. There is still much work that needs to be done before we can risk accidentally arming the wrong folks in Syria. Congress needs more information on the front end of this process; the experiences in Libya prove that.” Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
07.17.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 17, 2014 WASHINGTON D.C. - Congressman Robert Aderholt along with two other members of the House introduced legislation today that streamlines the removal process for illegal aliens caught at the border, and allows unaccompanied minors to be returned to their home country in weeks instead of the usual years it takes to navigate the current process. This legislation closes a loophole used by human smugglers to exploit the anti-human trafficking law amended in 2008 that was designed to deal with illegal child labor and sex trafficking. The legislation allows for all unaccompanied children, regardless of what country they are from, to be treated the same under the law and to be reunited with their families in their home country. Aderholt, who previously chaired the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, teamed up with the current Subcommittee Chairman John Carter (R-TX31) and Health & Human Services Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Jack Kingston (R-GA01) to introduce the legislation this morning to address our nation’s crisis at the border. "The end of the border crisis begins with honestly enforcing our immigration laws at the border," said Congressman Robert Aderholt who chairs the Agriculture Subcommittee on Appropriations. "This common-sense legislation is needed to streamline the removal process and, at the same time, protect minor children who qualify for asylum. We need a process where these cases can be dealt with quickly. With this legislation in place, instead of the process taking years, the process will move much more quickly. Those who try to circumvent our laws and who are here for the wrong reasons need to know it will soon take just weeks for them to be sent back to their home country." The legislation amends the 2008 William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act (TVPRA) and provides for the expedited removal of Unaccompanied Alien Children (UAC) who are not victims of human trafficking or do not have a credible fear of returning to their home country. This legislation: Removes the distinction between Canadian/Mexican UACs and UACs from non-border countries, like Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador. Requires immigration enforcement officials to investigate the individuals receiving custody of the children inside the United States. These guardians are often here illegally and many sent thousands of dollars to criminal smuggling organizations. Allows officials to hold UACs while their claims are heard, rather than release them throughout the country at taxpayer expense. Reaffirms that taxpayers will not pay for lawyers to represent illegal immigrants. Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
06.23.2014	IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 23, 2014 CONTACT: Brian Rell, 202.225.4876WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today announced that the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) is offering loans through Tuesday, July 1, 2014 to help churches and other nonprofits in Alabama storm-damaged designated counties to rebuild. “Storms of this nature are difficult to recover from,” said Aderholt, “That is why it is important that we give the very institutions that will help others get back on their feet a helping hand.”The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) released the following statement:“Churches, temples, other religious centers, as well as other private nonprofit organizations in Alabama’s storm-damaged designated counties, are eligible to apply for U. S. Small Business Administration loans to help rebuild. The deadline to apply is Tuesday, July 1.“Eligible private nonprofit organizations may borrow up to $2 million at interest rates as low as 2.635 percent to repair or replace damaged or destroyed real estate, furniture, fixtures, appliances, equipment, vehicles, other assets, and leasehold improvements.“The terms of the loan may be up to 30 years, making payments affordable. The SBA sets loan amounts and terms based on each applicant’s financial condition. Interested organizations may apply before their insurance claims are settled.“The SBA may loan up to 20 percent more than the total of disaster damage to real estate and/or leasehold improvements that reduce the risk of future disaster damages. “For more information, nonprofits may call (800) 659-2955 or visit a disaster recovery center. Forthose that are hearing impaired and require an assistive device (TTY), call (800) 877-8339. Nonprofits may also visit SBA’s secure website at https://disasterloan.sba.gov/ela to apply for disaster loans. Registration with FEMA is also recommended by calling (800) 621-3362 (the hearing impaired may call (800) 462-7585); online registration is available at www.DisasterAssistance.gov. Churches and other nonprofits also should investigate sources of aid from charitable agencies, volunteer groups, and private donors.”Congressman Aderholt serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
05.20.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 20, 2014 CONTACT: Brian Rell, 202.225.4876Chairman Stands By Local Schools Requesting Temporary Flexibility in School Meals ProgramWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) released the following statement in addition to his opening remarks (below) after the conclusion of the Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee’s successful passage of the FY15 appropriations bill for the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the Food & Drug Administration, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, and the Farm Credit Administration. "This bill supports programs that our farmers, ranchers, and rural communities rely on every day, and will help these small areas to grow and prosper,” said Congressman Robert Aderholt who chairs the Appropriations Agriculture subcommittee. "In addition, the bill will help ensure that our food supply is safe and healthy for all Americans, and provide nutrition assistance for the most vulnerable among us, including children and the elderly.”“Much has been said about the waiver language provided for the school meals program. Based upon some of the comments I am not sure that they have actually read the language in the bill as it merely provides a temporary waiver for those schools that are having difficulty makingthe economic realities of the new federal regulations work with the economic realities in their school district."The new USDA regulations are far reaching and have come too fast for local school districts to swallow. As such they have upset the economics of the school meals program by driving the cost of the plate up while pushing participation down. This is causing some school systems to abandon the school meals program altogether.”"I have been in the school lunchroom, I have sat down with the individuals responsible for preparing student meals, and I have sat down with thestudents about this. As well intended asthe people in Washington believe themselves to be, the realityis that from a practical standpoint these regulations are just plain not working out in some individual school districts.""I first thought that the problems were largely isolated to rural counties where school meal suppliers were more limited, but have since heard from schools in more urban districts that they too were having problems complying with the new regulations.""I am standing with our nation’s schools to provide them the flexibility they are requesting from Congress. The language in this bill simply provides those schools that are having difficulty complying with the regulations the ability to obtain a temporary, one year waiver.""Fewer kids are buying school lunches, and that undermines the intention to increase healthy eating in schools," said Aderholt. "This ultimately jeopardizes the economics of the program in many counties."Congressman Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; Vice-Chairman of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and a member of the Defense Subcommittee, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. - more below -OPENING REMARKSChairman Robert AderholtAgriculture Subcommittee MarkupMay 20, 2014Good morning.Before you this morning is the Chairman’s mark for the FY 15 Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill. The Subcommittee’s discretionary 302(b) allocation is $20.88 billion. This bill meets that allocation. Discretionary spending in this bill is equal to the FY 14 enacted level.When the Subcommittee began the FY 15 appropriation process, I asked my colleagues to keep in mind three guiding principles. They were: (1) Ensuring the Proper Use of Funds through Robust Oversight; (2) Ensuring the Appropriate Level of Regulation to Protect Producers and the Public; and, (3) Ensuring Funding is Targeted to Vital Programs. These three principles guided us from the first review of the President’s budget request to the content of the bill in front of you. This basic framework helped us set priorities during the 10 budget and oversight hearings this year, which covered all of USDA’s mission areas, as well as the Food and Drug Administration and Commodity Futures Trading Commission.They also formed a framework for us to consider the many, many bill and report requests we received from our colleagues. I’m pleased to report that interest in this bill is higher than ever. We received more than 3,900 requests from 326 Members to support, deny, or amend funding levels in the numerous accounts in the Bill and to include new bill or report language. We have tried to address these requests in a bipartisan manner by providing programmatic funding or by including language in the bill or report in accordance with House rules. As such, there are no earmarks in this bill.There are two particular issues I would like to mention this morning. First, let me bring to your attention that this bill allocates GSA rent and Department of Homeland Security costs to USDA’s individual agencies. In the past, we have provided funding for these costs in one, consolidated account. If you hear a colleague remark on the large increases they see in the bill, please explain this point to them. We believe that by decentralizing rent and security costs, USDA’s agencies will be motivated to control costs, thus providing savings. Second, this bill includes language that provides schools an opportunity to apply for a waiver if they are experiencing financial difficulty meeting the nutrition standards created by the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act of 2010. As background, Congress included similar report language in the FY 14 conference report. The language directed USDA to establish a waiver process that gives schools the flexibility they are requesting. This was language that received agreement from the majority and minority of both the House and Senate. The Secretary of Agriculture subsequently informed the House and Senate that he did not have the authority to implement waivers. We took the next logical step in this bill by providing him the legal authority to grant such waivers. While my colleagues and I are concerned about the national problems brought on by childhood obesity, I also want to be sensitive to the challenges of local school districts. I continually hear from my schools in Alabama about the challenges and costs they are facing and their desperation for flexibility and relief so that they can operate a program serving healthy foods the kids will eat. I would bet many of you are hearing similar concerns from your schools as well. And if you are not, then this waiver process will have no impact on how your schools are operating. If your schools are successful in implementing the nutrition standards and operating in the black, they would not qualify for or need a waiver. But for schools suffering economic hardship and needing more time to implement and adjust to the new standards, this waiver gives them that flexibility schools are asking us to provide. It is a pleasure to present to you a bill that will impact every American, every day of the year. We support America’s farmers and ranchers, who are vital to our Nation’s economy and our health and well-being. We are blessed with such a diverse and plentiful food supply that is partly made possible through programs in the bill which assist farmers and ranchers across the country. We support those at home in need with food and housing and provide rural businesses with low-interest loans and grants to help them sustain local economies. We help others around the world who face starvation and malnutrition. We support research and development in agriculture to improve productivity and stability. We support the oversight of commodity markets, providing confidence for businesses, traders, investors, and the public. We support a safe food supply and safe and effective drugs and devices. We are fortunate that as a Nation we can support these vital programs. In closing, I ask for your support of the bill.###
05.19.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 19, 2014 CONTACT: Brian Rell, 202.225.4876WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today officially announced the winners of the 2014 Congressional Art Competition, which took place at the Mary G. Hardin Cultural Arts Center in Gadsden on April 28, 2014. “I am always amazed at the outstanding art work created by these talented young people,” Aderholt said. “One of the judges said that it was hard to ‘wow’ him after 28 years of teaching art, but that he had been really impressed by this year’s entries. His reaction is a testament to the quality of these young people’s talent.”The Best of Show award went to Guntersville High School Student Helen Nguyen for her artwork entitled Saying Goodbye. The winner’s artwork will hang at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C., as part of an exhibition titled An Artistic Discovery.Congress launched the competition in 1982 to recognize the talents of young Americans. As a part of the program, Helen’s piece, along with other winning entries from around the nation, will be displayed at the Capitol for one year.The Congressional Art Competition is held each year and is open to all high school students in public, private, or homeschools in the 16 counties that make up the 4th Congressional District of Alabama. 145 students from the district submitted works this year, and winners were chosen from seven categories: painting, drawing, collage, prints, mixed media, computer graphics, and photography.BEST OF SHOWHelen Nguyen - Guntersville High SchoolPAINTING1st – Victoria Shouse - Guntersville High School2nd – Mason Holcomb - Guntersville High School3rd – Brandon Marchant - Haleyville High SchoolDRAWING1st – Valerie Dante - Muscle Shoals High School2nd – Erin Armstrong - Northside High School3rd – Kristen Snay - Fort Payne High SchoolCOLLAGES1st – Kayla Branum - KDS DAR High School2nd- Christina Williams - Guntersville High School3rd – Gayl Rautenbach - Northside High SchoolPRINTS1st – Chantal Rautenbach - Northside High School2nd – Richelle Brown - West Point High School3rd – Wenyu Guo - St. BernardMIXED MEDIA1st – Cadley Jackson - Guntersville High School2nd – Cassie Taylor - KDS DAR High School3rd – Trey Wheatley - KDS DAR High SchoolCOMPUTER GRAPHICS1st - Laura Grace Cole - Guntersville High School2nd – Maggie Dobbs - Haleyville High School3rd – Moraga Page - Haleyville High SchoolPHOTOGRAPHY1st – Brittani Mason - Guntersville High School2nd – Kathryn Johnson - Asbury High School3rd – Jenna Ergle - Sumiton ChristianCongressman Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; he is also a member of the Committee’s Defense Subcommittee and the Committee’s Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, and serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
04.16.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Brian Rell, 202-225-7928Congressman Aderholt Hosts School Meal Forum in Cullman County with Students and State, National School Nutrition LeadersCullman, AL -- Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-AL) today heard from key school nutrition professionals from across the state to gauge their experiences providing school lunches to students. Following the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act of 2010, school meal programs must adhere to strict new federal guidelines for school meals and will soon implement new standards for competitive foods, those foods sold outside the reimbursable school meal program. These new “Smart Snacks in School” rules are set to go into effect July 1, bringing a series of new regulations for school meal planners and students to adjust to.School nutrition professionals from seven AL counties joined the congressman at West Point Schools in Cullman to share concerns of increased food costs coupled with decreased student participation in meal programs. The requirement for students to take certain foods deemed "healthy" has further challenged schools working with very limited budgets while resulting in significant plate waste.Local program directors, together with state and national School Nutrition Association (SNA) representatives, stressed to Congressman Aderholt that flexibility in nutrition guidelines could help support the goals of increasing student participation in healthy meal programs by making them more appealing to students.Congressman Aderholt, who serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the House Appropriations Committee, also joined a group of West Point High School students in a round-table discussion to hear their feedback on changes in their cafeterias since nutrition guidelines began implementation in fall 2012. Student participants recognized the importance of healthy options but voiced concerns about the changes being made."It is clear to me that it is time for the Administration to hit the pause button on the implementation of school nutrition guidelines and listen to the feedback - some of the rules are unworkable and having the opposite effect,” said Aderholt."I am hearing this from the school administrators as well as the students themselves.""Less kids are buying school lunches and that undermines the intention to increase healthy eating in schools," said Aderholt. "This jeopardizes the economics of the program in many counties."School Nutrition Association's national president, Leah Schmidt, joined Congressman Aderholt to provide insight on challenges felt nationwide in school meal programs and while visiting she also heard from local students and school meal professionals.“School nutrition professionals appreciate the support of Congressman Aderholt and we look forward to working together in the future to continue to prioritize the long-term viability and strength of school meal programs in providing healthy, appealing options for students," said Schmidt. The congressman stressed the importance for stakeholders and supporters of school meal programs to contact USDA to urge their support of allowing for local flexibility on these issues.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee; Vice-Chairman of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and a member of the Defense Subcommittee, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
03.14.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Brian Rell, 202-225-7928Vilsack faces tough questioningAgriculture Appropriations Questions Secretary on LIHEAP/SNAP benefits, School Nutrition RegulationsWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) released the following statement in addition to his opening remarks after the conclusion of the Agriculture Appropriations subcommittee oversight hearing with U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack. "Today's hearing with Secretary Vilsack shone a bright light on what I consider to be the focus of our subcommittee: robust oversight, appropriate levels of regulation and funding for vital programs," said Chairman Robert Aderholt, who is in his second year chairing the Agriculture Appropriations subcommittee. "There may have been times today the Secretary might have felt the light too bright given the many hard topics covered, but that is our job."The Secretary answered questions concerning the receipt of Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) assistance to boost a households' SNAP/food stamp benefits that they would not be eligible for under the 2014 farm bill, poultry inspection modernization, the 2014 Farm Bill implementation and the school nutrition program regulations."The hearing today was spirited at times and the Secretary has some answers he has yet to provide, real, definitive answers to our committee," said Chairman Aderholt. "However, we got a definitive answer the USDA has no plans to regulate classroom birthday parties and certainly that is welcome news.”Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, Vice-Chairman of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee; and is a member of the Defense Subcommittee, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.###
03.06.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: MARCH 6, 2014 CONTACT: Brian Rell, 202-225-4876Aderholt Challenges CFTC Budget RequestCites 92% funding increase since financial crisisWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) released the following statement in addition to his opening remarks after the conclusion of the Commodities Futures Trading Commission oversight hearing with Acting Commissioner Mark Wetjen. "There is no doubt that the CFTC performs a valuable function in assuring a stable marketplace for futures, swaps, options and other financial instruments that few talk about but make our nation's economy function," said Chairman Robert Aderholt whose Agriculture Appropriations subcommittee has jurisdiction over the Commission. "But the putting forth 'hundreds of trillions of dollars' as the notional value as a cost justification is specious at best. That amount is several times larger than the entire world economy.""A more sound measure would include trading volume, amount of customer funds and the number of registered entities under CFTC oversight as Acting Chairmna Wetjen mentioned in his opening remarks. The highest metric provided is an increase of 40% for registered entities since the financial crisis, yet funding for the CFTC has increased 92%. This hardly builds the narrative for a cash starved regulator body.""In a marketplace that is increasingly automated via electronic trading and algorithms, a more valid approach to creating a stable and well regulated marketplace comes from an increase in technology instead of payroll. That being said, I look forward to working with Commissioner O'Malia and the acting Chairman on this matter and ways to make sure that the CFTC has the means to do its job in an effective yet efficient manner.""Mr. Wetjen should be commended for the job he is doing as acting Chairman of the CFTC. He walked in at a time when the Commission was unnecessarily politicized and has done a good job of unwinding the unnecessary tension between divergent stakeholders. This demonstrates that his number one concern is for a we'll functioning marketplace and not for politics. I respect that and certainly look forward to working with him."Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, Vice-Chairman of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee; and is a member of the Defense Subcommittee, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission. ###
10.24.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 24, 2013 CONTACT: Brian Rell, 202.225.4876Chairman Aderholt Questions CFTC Furloughs:Washington, D.C. Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) released the following statement that questions Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) Chairman Gary Gensler's announcement of 14 furlough days to CFTC employees today.“I don't see how Chairman Gensler’s notice to CFTC employees today announcing 14 furlough days for fiscal year 2014 is based in budgetary realities. It should be noted that the current government funding is through January 15th, not the full fiscal year. Justification for an announcement for furloughs appears to be lacking as CFTC has the explicit legal authority to spend amounts necessary to avoid furloughs.Budgetary games where public servants are used as political pawns is not admirable and something the Appropriations Committee has very little patience for. It is actions like these that invite robust oversight into how our public tax dollars are spent. I plan to address these issues with him when we meet in my office next week.”* Editors note: CFTC has explicit legal authority to spend amounts above current levels for civilian personnel compensation and benefits necessary to avoid furloughs as provided in Section 112 of Public Law 113-46Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies that includes the CFTC for the House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee¹s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt's work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov###Editors note: the attached letter from CFTC to OMB was sent on January 2, 2014
10.01.2013	Washington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) released the following statement after the United States House of Representatives passed three measures that would immediately put an end to delayed veterans benefits, closed national parks and memorials, and provide the District of Columbia the authority to use their own revenue to continue operations. “While the House continues to offer to fund the federal government, Senate Democrats continue to refuse anything less than absolutely everything they want,” said Aderholt “The passage of these three bills tonight will ensure our nation’s veterans receive the benefits they have earned and allow our national parks and monuments to re-open. Further, they are another offer from the House to put politics aside and come to the table to find a greater solution. House Republicans will continue these efforts to keep the government running and protect Alabamians from the President’s health care law as we wait for Senate Democrats to start working with us.”While Senate Democrats have again rejected our offer to come to the table to negotiate a solution today, the House continues to engage in the legislative process that they have chosen to abandon,” said Aderholt.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov.###
10.01.2013	Washington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) released the following statement after the United States House of Representatives voted to go to conference committee with the Senate on Continuing Resolution, H.J.Res. 59. “The House passed a Continuing Resolution to keep the federal government funded and to stop the train wreck that is the President’s unpopular health care law, not once, not twice, but three times and did so with bipartisan support,” said Aderholt. “Unfortunately, the Senate rejected our offers and refused to come to the table to find a solution.”“Last night, the House voted to formally go to conference committee with the Senate on the latest Continuing Resolution. This conference can provide a venue to discuss our differences, engage in a productive dialogue and negotiate a solution. It is time for the Senate and the President to put politics aside and come to the table so we can end this government shutdown and protect Alabama families and small businesses from Obamacare,” concluded Aderholt.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov.###
09.30.2013	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement after Congressman Spencer Bachus (AL-06) announced he would not seek reelection.“I have known Spencer to be a fine, gracious person who cares deeply about Alabama and has served his district well,” said Aderholt. “Spencer chaired the Financial Services Committee during a time of shaky markets with a steady hand. He and his wife Linda will be missed by the entire delegation.”Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov.###
09.20.2013	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) released the following statement after the United States House of Representatives passed H.J.Res. 59, a short-term Continuing Resolution (CR) that defunds Obamacare, funds the government through December 15th and provides appropriators an opportunity to continue working on FY 2014 bills and ensure that House Republican priorities are reflected in the bills sent to the Senate.“Today, I supported a Continuing Resolution that defunds Obamacare and keeps the government running through the end of the year,” said Aderholt. “The House has done our job, it is time for the Senate to do theirs and show American’s where they stand. As the clock ticks us days closer to the implementation of Obamacare and the end of the fiscal year, the time for the Senate to act is now.”Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
09.18.2013	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) released the following statement in support of H.J.Res. 59, a short-term Continuing Resolution (CR) that defunds Obamacare, funds the government through December 15th and provides appropriators an opportunity to continue working on FY 2014 bills and ensure that House Republican priorities are reflected in the bills sent to the Senate.“I stand in strong support of a Continuing Resolution that defunds Obamacare and offers the Senate and the Administration one more chance to finish our Appropriations bills in regular order,” said Aderholt. “Obamacare is a train wreck. It’s bad for American families, it’s bad for small businesses, it’s bad for doctors and hospitals and it’s bad for our nation’s economy.”“Further, according to the Administration that wanted it, it’s also not ready. Congress has a real opportunity to stop this train wreck and H.J.Res. 59 is the right way to do it. The House has voted nearly 40 times to repeal, replace, dismantle or defund all or portions of Obamacare. The House has done our job, it is time for the Senate to do theirs. Including language in the base text of short-term Continuing Resolution will force the Senate to finally address the issue and show American’s where they stand.”“Also, H.J.Res. 59 adds a provision that would require the Treasury to make good on public debt payments, should America reach the debt ceiling. This would ensure that the White House would not be able to play politics with benefits like Social Security and disability payments.”“As the clock ticks us days closer to the implementation of Obamacare and the end of the fiscal year, we know the time to act is now. I hope my colleagues in the Senate will join me in doing what is right for the American people and support H.J.Res. 59,” concluded Aderholt.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
09.16.2013	Aderholt Traveling Help Desk to Visit HamiltonCongressional Staff On-Site to Assist Constituents with Federal CaseworkWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today announced that District Field Representative Kreg Kennedy will be in Hamilton on Friday, September 27th to provide assistance to those needing help working with federal agencies. “With a district that stretches across the state, it can be difficult for people to travel to our district offices when they need help,” said Aderholt. “By bringing district staff to local communities, we can effectively assist those who otherwise would be unable to get support. This is an excellent opportunity for folks to come and discuss their issues with Kreg, who will help me begin the process of finding solutions for them.”Friday, September 27 Traveling Help DeskHamilton City Hall422 2nd Street SWHamilton, AL 355709:00am – 12:00pm Congressional offices can help with a variety of federal issues, including Social Security, Veterans Affairs, and Medicare issues. For a full list of services Congressman Aderholt’s office can assist visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
09.11.2013	Aderholt Statement on the Latest Developments on Syria SituationWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) released the following statement regarding the latest developments on the Syria situation:“After hearing the President’s speech last night, I still remained concerned about moving forward against Syria and the Assad regime. While the use of chemical weapons is certainly something that the world condemns, there are still many questions that go unanswered. However, it is my hope and prayer that a peaceful and diplomatic solution will be successful and that Syria’s chemical weapons stockpile will be removed.”Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
09.11.2013	Aderholt Statement on the Anniversary of September 11th and Benghazi AttacksWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) released the following statement today in remembrance of the 12th anniversary of the September 11th terrorist attacks and the first anniversary of the deadly assault on Americans in Benghazi, Libya."Twelve years ago we saw terrorists make a cowardly attack on the United States that killed so many innocent Americans who were just trying to do their jobs," said Aderholt. "Last year we lost four more Americans at the hands of terrorists and extremists through an attack on our Embassy in Benghazi, Libya. While we have been tested by these senseless acts of violence, our resiliency and resolve will never waiver and America continues to shine as a beacon of freedom and hope around the world. God bless America."Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov.###
08.31.2013	"The Rose Garden speech today is a realization by the president that he has not made his case on taking action in Syria to Congress and the American people. The one thing President Obama and I agree on at this point is that he should not go forward without Congressional authorization.The speech leaves many questions such as who exactly are the 'good guys' in this conflict? And how is American involvement not the fuel for the fire the Muslim Brotherhood and extremist are trying to ignite throughout the region?Cruise missiles are not a strategy. The President by now should see that foreign policy is far more complex than that."
08.28.2013	Aderholt Announces $1.8 Million DOT Grant for Northeast Alabama Regional Airport in GadsdenWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today announced the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) awarded $1,891,600 to the City of Gadsden in Etowah County for the rehabilitation and runway construction at the Northeast Alabama Regional Airport.“This grant will help the City of Gadsden’s with its efforts to continue expanding economic development opportunities and is great news for our area,” said Aderholt. “The Northeast Alabama Regional Airport is a key priority in growing our local and state economy and attracting new businesses and job creators to Etowah County and the surrounding area and I look forward to the project’s completion.“The Northeast Alabama Regional Airport is a critical part of the City of Gadsden’s economic development goals. This DOT grant will fund runway improvements, enhance current military operations at the airport and help to attract private industry and investment to our area. We greatly appreciate Congressman Aderholt’s continued support of this project and his commitment to help bring jobs and economic opportunity to our area,” said Mayor of Gadsden Sherman Guyton.The Project is funded through the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Airport Improvement Program of the Federal Aviation Administration. Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov.###
08.21.2013	Aderholt Commends Alabama Students Honored at National SkillsUSA ChampionshipsWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) congratulates local high school and technical college students for their achievements at the SkillsUSA National Leadership and Skills Conference in Kansas City, Missouri.“Skilled workers are a vital part of Alabama’s economy and in recent years have been in short supply,” said Aderholt. “Programs like SkillsUSA are important to fostering young minds interested in pursuing careers technical careers. I am so proud to see our student’s not only do well at the annual conference and competition, but also to see them taking such an interest in these important fields. Their knowledge and determination will continue to benefit Alabama’s skilled workforce for years to come. I commend these talented, driven students on a job well done and wish them the best as they continue with their education and into their careers.”"Over 5,900 students from every state in the nation came to compete in the SkillsUSA Championships," said SkillsUSA executive director Tim Lawrence. “This is the SkillsUSA partnership at its best. Students, instructors and industries are working together to ensure America has a skilled workforce and every student excels. These students prove that career and technical education expands opportunities."Participants of this year’s SkillsUSA Leadership and Skills Conference study at Calhoun Community College-Huntsville, DeKalb County Technology Center, Dothan Technical Center, Earnest Pruett Center of Technology, Etowah Career Technology Center, Gadsden State Community College, J. R. Drake State Technical College, Lawrence County Center of Technology, Limestone Career Technology School, Northeast Alabama Community College, Northwest Shoals Community College, Shelby County School of Technology, Tuscaloosa Center for Technology, Wallace Community College, and Wallace State College. For a complete list of student winners, please visit: https://skillsusa-register.org/rpts/EventMedalists.aspxSkillsUSA is a nationwide partnership of students, instructors and industry that work to ensure America has a skilled workforce. It helps every student excel. The nationwide career and technical education (CTE) student organization serves more than 300,000 high school, college and postsecondary students—and their instructors—in technical, skilled, and service occupation instructional programs. CTE is learning that works for America. SkillsUSA programs teach leadership, citizenship and character development to complement technical skill training. The organization emphasizes respect for the dignity of work, ethics, workmanship, scholarship and safety.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit: www.aderholt.house.gov.###
08.13.2013	Aderholt: ‘The Only Climate We Should be Talking About Today is this Country’s stalled economic and jobs climate’Aderholt greets President Obama’s Organizing for Action, with hard facts of this Administration's poor economic leadershipWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) made the following statement regarding Organizing for Action, President Obama’s political organization, visits to his Cullman and Gadsden District Offices today."President Obama’s political organization Organizing for Action's mission is a perfect example of the disconnect between the Obama Administration’s policies and America’s sluggish, jobless recovery,” said Aderholt. “While Obama's Organizing for Action is showing concern about the climate change debate, hardworking Alabamians and I are concerned with our nation’s dismal jobs climate.”“Alabama is now the third largest manufacturer of automobiles in the country and continues to be a bright spot in our nation’s economic recovery, because of our skilled workforce and relatively low energy costs. However, job creators are fighting an uphill battle against an out-of-touch Administration that thinks burdensome Washington regulations will somehow lead to job growth.”“The biggest denial is that the Obama Administration’s burdensome EPA regulations that have increased the cost of manufacturing and doing business, that Obamacare driving up the cost of healthcare and crippling hiring, and catering to special interest groups like those that are stalling the Keystone Pipeline are not the root cause our nation’s dismal jobs climate.”“The only climate we should be talking about today is this country’s stalled economic and jobs climate. It is time for groups like Organizing for Action to understand the continued impact of this President’s policies and that they directly produced the worst economic recovery in modern history,” concluded Aderholt.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
08.02.2013	Aderholt Praises SLS Team on Completion of Preliminary Design ReviewWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) praised Marshall Space Flight Center and the Space Launch System (SLS) team on completing its Preliminary Design Review.“I commend Marshall Space Flight Center and the SLS team and all of those who have been a part of the process, on completing their Preliminary Design Review,” said Aderholt. “This is a major milestone. It means that—after a thorough review—experts throughout the agency and industry agree that this program is on track and is able to perform its mission.”“This rocket program has made remarkable progress in only two years—combining legacy hardware and knowledge with innovative new techniques to create a launch system that adds critical capability exceeding our current family of rockets. Further, at a time when funding space related programs are particularly challenging, the rapid progress and success of SLS helps to validate the importance of investing in these programs. Other nations are not slowing their space programs; the United States must not either,” concluded Aderholt.The initial 70-metric-ton version of the Space Launch System will stand 321 feet tall, provide 8.4 million pounds of thrust at liftoff, and carry 154,000 pounds of payload. The rocket is scheduled for its first mission, Exploration Mission 1, to launch an unscrewed Orion spacecraft in 2017. The mission’s goal is to demonstrate the integrated system performance of the SLS rocket and spacecraft before a crewed flight in 2021. Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
07.17.2013	Aderholt Supports Obamacare Mandate Delay for AllWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) released the following statement in support of H.R. 2667, the Authority for Mandate Delay Act and H.R. 2668, the Fairness for American Families Act.“Like so many other provisions of the law that have been delayed, repealed or declared unworkable, this is just another example that Obamacare is not ready,” said Aderholt. “However, it is unfair for the Administration to shelter big businesses from their mistakes without giving that same relief to individuals, families and small businesses.”“These bills address this problem by delaying both the employer mandate and the individual mandate. Since Obamacare became law, the American people’s opposition to it has only grown. We have seen premiums start skyrocketing, many are losing their current employer-sponsored health insurance, and employers have started cutting jobs, hours and wages. The legislation passed today does what’s fair and protects all Americans from a law that most Americans disagree with,” concluded Aderholt.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
07.11.2013	Aderholt Supports the FARRM ActWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) released the following statement today after H.R. 2642, the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management (FARRM) Act of 2013, passed in the United States House of Representatives.“I think most Americans recognize that America’s farmers and ranchers are vital to our nation—they create jobs in our communities, provide food for our tables, and export goods around the world,” said Aderholt. “Though the process may not have been pretty, today’s vote was an important step in the legislative process and giving producers certainty that is vital to the continued health of American agriculture.”For the full text of the bill, please visit: https://docs.house.gov/billsthisweek/20130708/BILLS-113hr-PIH-FARRM-Act.pdfAderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
07.03.2013	Aderholt Stands in Solidarity with People of EgyptSupports efforts to institute a true transitional democracy in EgyptWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement regarding the people of Egypt’s call for peaceful resignation of Egyptian President Mohammed Morsi:“As we have seen in the news, in recent days millions of Egyptians across political and religious lines have been gathering to peacefully demonstrate their desire for a more transparent and real democracy,” said Aderholt. “It is my understanding that the people of Egypt have come together and collected more than 25 million signatures asking for a transitional democratic government. That is nearly twice the number of votes that President Morsi received when he was elected last year.”“I am very concerned with the reports that the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt is resisting any attempt to move Egypt to a transitional government, and the possibility of Hamas elements being brought into Egypt from Gaza. That would be a cruel attack on people hungry for democracy,” added Aderholt.“As we are on the eve of celebrating Independence Day here in the United States, my thoughts and prayers are with the people of Egypt. I stand in solidarity with their desire to have a government rooted in the basic tenets of democratic representation. President Morsi would be well served to note the will of the people of Egypt and realize that this is about more than just one person or one regime, but rather about the future of the entire nation of Egypt," concluded Aderholt.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
06.18.2013	Washington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) issued the following statement in support of H.R. 1797, the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act that passed today in the United States House of Representatives.“Protecting unborn life is a universal issue that has become one of the most unifying causes over the past several decades,” said Aderholt. “This legislation today would prohibit late abortions of unborn children after twenty weeks, as children at this stage of development can feel pain.”“Every year over 15,000 babies who are just days or weeks away from having a good chance of surviving on their own and can feel pain are legally aborted under current law. When the Titanic sank, 1,523 people died. The number of babies that are killed at this point in their growth where they can feel pain each and every year because of late abortions is equivalent to 10 Titanic’s sinking. This is not something we can ignore,” continued Aderholt”“Further, in light of the recent conviction of abortionist Kermit Gosnell and reports of other potentially similar gruesome late abortion providers around the country, this prohibition is more important than ever. It is also important to note that this bill prioritizes the health of mothers, providing an exception to this law in cases where a mother’s life is at risk,” concluded Aderholt.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
06.13.2013	Appropriations Committee Approves Fiscal Year 2014 Agriculture Appropriations BillLegislation will support American farmers and ranchers, sustains food safety efforts, and trip unnecessary spendingWashington, D.C.— The House Appropriations Committee today approved the fiscal year 2014 Agriculture Appropriations bill, which will now head to the House floor for consideration. The proposed legislation funds important agricultural and food programs and services, including food safety, animal and plant health programs, rural development and farm services, marketplace oversight, and nutrition programs.The bill totals $19.5 billion in discretionary funding, which is $1.3 billion below the fiscal year 2013 enacted level and approximately equal to the current level caused by automatic sequestration spending cuts. This total is $516 million below the President’s request for these programs.“I applaud the Committee approval of this bill today. From keeping our food and drug supply the safest in the world, to supporting our farmers and ranchers who create millions of American jobs, to helping our most vulnerable families put meals on the table, the funding in this bill is critical to our nation’s economy,” House Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers said.“The bill reported out of Committee today will help America’s agricultural research remain cutting edge, maintain vibrant rural communities, provide nutrition to those most vulnerable, keep our markets competitive in the global economy, and maintain the safest food and drug supply in the world. And, it does this while cutting spending by $1.3 billion below the fiscal year 2013 enacted level, ”Agriculture Subcommittee Chairman Robert Aderholt said.The following amendments to the FY 2014 Agriculture Appropriations bill were adopted by the full committee today:Rep. Lowey- The amendment adds report language on several topics within the jurisdiction of the FDA. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote. Rep. Wolf – The amendment adds bill language to establish a Congressional Commission on Hunger. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote.Rep. Culberson – The amendment prohibits funding for making reductions in programs, unless the change is enacted into law or unless it complies with existing transfer and reprogramming requirements. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote. Rep. Kaptur– The amendment makes technical changes to the report. The amendment was adopted on a voice voteRep. Womack – The amendment prohibits funding for the Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration (GIPSA) to implement certain regulations that would adversely impact livestock producers. The amendment was adopted on a vote of 29-17.Rep. Kingston– The amendment adds report language on reducing food-borne illness with regard to poultry inspections. The amendment was adopted on voice vote.Rep. Simpson – The amendment allows white potatoes to be included as part of the WIC food program. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote.Rep. Kingston – The amendment limits funding for certain Agriculture Department salaries unless the error rates for child nutrition programs are reduced. The amendment was adopted on a vote of 23-20.Rep. Culberson – The amendment prohibits funding in the bill from going to states unless their SNAP and WIC participants are deemed eligible in compliance with current law. The amendment was adopted on a vote of 27-21. Rep. Lee– The amendment adds language expressing a sense of Congress that Congress should not pass laws that would increase hunger in the U.S. Rep. Fortenberry–The amendment prohibits funding to reclassify "rural" areas as it relates to certain rural housing programs. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote. Rep. Yoder– The amendment requires the CFTC and the SEC to jointly issue regulations relating to the regulation of derivatives that take place with U.S. persons doing business overseas, as opposed to multiple or separate standards. The amendment was adopted on a vote of 31-17.Rep. Moran– The amendment prohibits funding for inspections of horse slaughter facilities in the U.S. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote?The bill was approved by the full committee on a voice vote. For the text of the bill and report, please visit: https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/bills-113hr-sc-ap-fy2014-agriculture-subcommitteedraft.pdf and https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/hrpt-113-hr-2014-agriculture.pdf. ###
06.05.2013	Good morning. Today before the subcommittee we have the Chairman’s mark for the fiscal year 2014 Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill. Our discretionary 302(b) allocation in budget authority is $19.450 billion, and the bill before us is right at that number. Discretionary spending in this bill is $1.3 billion, or 6.2 percent below the fiscal year 2013 enacted level, and is $516 million, or 2.6 percent below the President’s budget request. It should be noted that the President’s request did not include funding for the P.L. 480 – Food for Peace program in this bill. Mandatory spending in the bill totals $120 billion, an increase of $1.1 billion above the fiscal year 2013 level, and a decrease of $2.1 billion below the budget request.America’s farmers, ranchers, and producers are vital to our nation’s economy and are the most competitive in the world. They create jobs in our communities, produce food for our tables, export products around the globe, and diversify our nation’s energy supply. The funding provided in this bill will help keep America’s agricultural research cutting edge, maintain vibrant rural communities, provide nutrition to those most vulnerable, and keep our markets competitive while maintaining the safest food and drug supply in the world. The bill ensures that the Department of Agriculture, the Food and Drug Administration, and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission have adequate resources to complete their missions successfully and demonstrates our commitment to good stewardship of taxpayers’ limited dollars. Some of the items in the legislation before us today that demonstrate this commitment include a directive to increase oversight of WIC vendors to help rein in food costs. There also is a requirement for the Secretary to report to the committee on strategies being implemented to help weed out fraud, waste, and abuse in SNAP, such as banning fraudulent vendors. Language is included that prohibits advertisement or outreach to foreign governments to promote SNAP benefits. Continuing on this theme of being good stewards of taxpayers’ limited dollars, there is a requirement that the Secretary certify that any newly approved payment, loan, grant, subsidy, or insurance claim within the Farm Service Agency and Risk Management Agency programs is not provided to individuals or entities that have been permanently debarred from participating in USDA programs.We held 11 hearings covering all mission areas within the subcommittee’s jurisdiction with the exception of the Farm Credit Administration, which is financed through assessments on member institutions. Our colleagues’ interest in this bill remains at a high level. We received more than 3,100 requests from 289 Members for various funding and language items. We have tried to address these requests by providing programmatic funding or by including language in the bill or report in accordance with House rules. There are no earmarks in the legislation before us today. Mr. Chairman and Ranking Member Lowey, I would just like to state for the record that this subcommittee has 5 new members this year, and yours truly as the new subcommittee chairman. I can tell you that we had robust hearings, and all of our members participated. I want to say that the selections that you made for this subcommittee have paid off.In that regard, I want to commend all subcommittee members for their efforts. For the majority: Mr. Latham; Mr. Nunnelee; Mr. Yoder; Mr. Fortenberry; Mr. Rooney; and Mr. Valadao.On the minority side, my good friend and Ranking Member, Mr. Farr; Ms. DeLauro; Mr. Bishop; and Ms. Pingree.Now, I will ask my good friend and ranking member of the Subcommittee, Mr. Farr, for his opening remarks, and then we will turn to the distinguished Chairman of the full Committee, Mr. Rogers, and the distinguished Ranking Member of the full Committee, Mrs. Lowey, for any remarks they may have.###
06.04.2013	Washington, D.C.— The House Appropriations Committee today released the fiscal year 2014 Agriculture Appropriations bill, which will be considered in subcommittee tomorrow. The proposed legislation funds important agricultural and food programs and services, including food safety, animal and plant health programs, rural development and farm services, marketplace oversight, and nutrition programs.The bill totals $19.5 billion in discretionary funding, which is $1.3 billion below the fiscal year 2013 enacted level and approximately equal to the current level caused by automatic sequestration spending cuts. This total is $516 million below the President’s request for these programs.“We rely on American farmers and ranchers to provide us with the food and products we need every day. This bill will fund critical agricultural programs to support our farmers and ranchers, ensure the safety and sustainability of our food and drug supply, and offer some needed help to families who are facing the dangers of hunger. And we do all of this while keeping a tight hold on spending and trimming unnecessary funds to make the most of every tax dollar,” House Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers said.“America’s farmers, ranchers, and producers are vital to our nation’s economy and are the most competitive in the world. They create jobs in our communities, produce food for our tables, export products around the globe, and diversify our nation’s energy supply,” Subcommittee Chairman Robert Aderholt said. “The funding in this bill will help keep America’s agricultural research cutting-edge, maintain vibrant rural communities, provide nutrition to those most vulnerable, and keep our markets competitive while maintaining the safest food and drug supply in the world. At the same time, this bill honors our commitment to be good stewards of taxpayers’ limited dollars.”Bill Highlights:The agencies and programs in this bill will receive a total of $139.4 billion in both discretionary and mandatory funding – $2.6 billion below the President’s request and $52 million below the fiscal year 2013 enacted level. The programs funded in this bill, including agriculture production, promotion, research, and marketing, will help build upon the estimated $139.5 billion in U.S. agricultural exports this year – the highest level on record. These exports support more than one million American jobs and are essential to the nation’s continued economic growth.Agricultural Research – The bill provides $2.5 billion for agriculture research programs, including the Agricultural Research Service and the National Institute of Food and Agriculture. This is approximately equal to the fiscal year 2013 enacted funding level. This funding will support research to help stop and mitigate devastating crop diseases and improve food safety and water quality. The bill also maintains responsible investments in the nation’s land-grant colleges and universities.Animal and Plant Health –The legislation includes $803.5 million – approximately equal to the fiscal year 2013 enacted level – for the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. This funding will provide support for programs to help control or eradicate plant and animal pests and diseases that can be crippling to U.S. producers and entire agricultural industries.Conservation Programs – The bill provides $823 million – $2.3 million below the fiscal year 2013 enacted level – for the Natural Resources Conservation Service to help farmers, ranchers, and private forest landowners conserve and protect their land. This includes $12 million in conservation funding for dam rehabilitation to help small communities ensure their small watershed projects meet current safety standards.Farm Service Agency (FSA) – The legislation provides$1.5 billion for FSA, which is equal to the fiscal year 2013 enacted level. This funding will support the various farm, conservation, loan, and emergency programs for American farmers and ranchersRural Development – The bill provides a total of $2.2 billion for rural development programs, which is equal to the fiscal year 2013 enacted level. These programs help create an environment for economic growth by supporting basic rural infrastructure, providing loans to increase opportunities for rural businesses and industries, and helping balance the playing field in local rural housing markets.• Business and Industry Loans– The legislation includes $52 million – $3.1 million below the fiscal year 2013 enacted level – for the rural business and industry loan program. This funding will support $741 million in loans to help small businesses in rural areas, many of which face unique challenges due to local economic conditions.• Rural Infrastructure– The legislation includes responsible investments in basic rural infrastructure needs. This includes $1.2 billion for rural water and waste program loans and $448 million for grants, $5.2 billion for rural electric and telephone infrastructure loans, and $24 million for Distance Learning and Telemedicine grants, which address educational and health needs in rural communities.• Rural Housing Loans and Rental Assistance– The bill provides a total of $24 billion in loan authority for the Single Family Housing guaranteed loan program (equal to the fiscal year 2013 enacted level and the President’s request), and $820 million in direct loans ($80 million below the fiscal year 2013 enacted level). These loans provide low-income rural families – many of whom would have few loan options for purchasing a home because of their geographical location – with home loan assistance. In addition, $1 billion – $128 million above last year’s level – is provided for rental assistance to provide affordable rental housing for low-income families and the elderly in rural communities.Food Safety and Inspection Service – The legislation includes $999 million for food safety and inspection programs – which is $31 million below the fiscal year 2013 enacted level. These mandatory inspection activities help ensure the safety and productivity of the country’s $832 billion meat and poultry industry, and keep safe, healthy food on American tables. The funding provided will maintain more than 8,000 frontline inspection personnel for meat, poultry, and egg products at more than 6,200 facilities across the country. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) – The FDA receives a total of almost $2.5 billion in discretionary funding in the bill, an increase of $24 million above the fiscal year 2013 enacted level. Total funding for the FDA, including revenue from user fees, is $4.3 billion. Within this total, food safety activities are increased by $27 million, and drug safety activities are increased by $2.5 million. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC)– Included in the bill is $195 million for the CFTC, the agency’s current operating level, which is a cut of $10 million below the fiscal year 2013 enacted level and $120 million below the President’s budget request.Food and Nutrition Programs – The legislation contains discretionary funding, as well as mandatory funding required by law, for food and nutrition programs within the Department of Agriculture. This includes funding for the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), and the Child Nutrition programs.• WIC – The bill provides $6.7 billion in discretionary funding for WIC, which is $214 million below the fiscal year 2013 enacted level and $487 million below the President’s request. This program provides supplemental nutritional foods needed by pregnant and nursing mothers, babies and young children. Language is included for oversight and monitoring requirements to ensure the proper use of taxpayer dollars, including a directive for the Secretary of Agriculture to increase oversight of vendors to help rein in food costs.• Child nutrition programs – The bill provides for $20.45 billion in required mandatory funding – which is outside the discretionary funding jurisdiction of the Appropriations Committee – for child nutrition programs. This is $561 million above the fiscal year 2013 enacted level. This funding will provide for an estimated 5.6 billion free or reduced-price school lunches and snacks for 32.1 million children who qualify for the program.• Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP)– The bill provides for $76.3 billion in required mandatory spending – which is outside the discretionary funding jurisdiction of the Appropriations Committee – for SNAP. This is $958 million below last year’s level and $2 billion below the President’s budget request. This program provides food assistance to more than 45 million Americans on average every month. Strong oversight language is included requiring the Secretary of Agriculture to report on actions to help weed out and eliminate waste, fraud, and abuse in the program, such as a directive to ban fraudulent vendors, and a prohibition on advertisements or outreach with foreign governments.• International Food Programs– The legislation contains $1.15 billion for “Food for Peace” grants, also known as the P.L. 480 – Title II program. This is $284 million below the fiscal year 2013 enacted level. The bill does not reflect the President’s budget request to move this program to the jurisdiction of the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID).For the text of the subcommittee draft bill please visit: https://appropriations.house.gov/UploadedFiles/BILLS-113HR-SC-AP-FY2014-Agriculture-SubcommitteeDraft.pdf###
05.23.2013	Washington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement after Congressman Jo Bonner announced he will be resigning from Congress in August to take a leadership position with the University of Alabama System:"Jo Bonner is an esteemed colleague and friend. He is a dedicated public servant and incredible advocate for his district and the entire state of Alabama,” said Aderholt. “It has been a pleasure working with him over the years and his presence in Washington will be greatly missed. I wish Jo the very best and know he'll continue his commitment to Alabamians in his next endeavor."Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
05.22.2013	Washington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 3, the Northern Route Approval Act, that would clear the Administration’s roadblocks preventing construction of the Keystone XL pipeline.“House Republicans remain committed to implementing policies that help our economy grow and create opportunity for the private sector to create American jobs,” said Aderholt. “H.R. 3 does exactly that. The Keystone XL pipeline is a private-sector infrastructure project that will bring an estimated 20,000 jobs to the United States, add $20 billion to our nation’s economy and provide greater energy security to America.”“This is a situation where we have a private-sector company willing to invest $7 billion, that would create thousands of jobs. Instead of jumping at the chance to get our economy moving again, the Administration has kept this project in bureaucratic limbo for over four years,” added Aderholt.“As jobs reports and economic growth in this country continues to be dismal, removing the roadblocks preventing construction of the Keystone XL pipeline is a win-win for America. I am proud to have supported the legislation that passed in the House today and hope to see the Senate act swiftly on this commonsense measure,” concluded Aderholt. Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
05.21.2013	Major Phill Green, Congressman Aderholt, Specialist Corey Garmon and his wife Megan GarmonWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) met with wounded warriors Major Phill Green of Muscle Shoals and Specialist Corey Garmon of Boaz this past week in Washington.“It was my honor to spend part of my day with Major Phill Green, Specialist Corey Garmon and his wife Megan touring some of the Capitol, discussing their time in combat, along with learning about the great work that is going on to help other wounded veterans at Walter Reed and Operation Helping Heroes,” said Aderholt.“The service and sacrifice of our nation’s military and their families is second to none. Words cannot adequately express my gratitude to Major Green and Specialist Garmon, as well as all of our country’s servicemen who have given so much. These brave men and women risk their lives every day in support of our freedom and liberty and I cannot thank them enough for their commitment to country,” concluded Aderholt.Major Phill Green is from Muscle Shoals and while serving in Jordan, was struck by a vehicle, fracturing his ankle, knee, ribs and skull in several places. The impact also resulted in a serious brain injury, a collapsed lung, torn ligaments in his knee and shoulder. He is a member of the Army National Guard and is currently on active duty, serving with the Warrior Transition Unit at Walter Reed Medical Center in Bethesda, Maryland.Specialist Corey Garmon is from Boaz and while serving in Afghanistan, he was hit with an IED that resulted in injuries that took both of his legs. He is currently an active duty member of the United State’s Army 5/20 Infantry Regiment, 2nd Infantry Division, currently at Walter Reed Medical Center in Bethesda, Maryland. While recovering at Walter Reed, Specialist Garmon is working with Operation Helping Heroes to hope other wounded warriors and their families. For more information on Operation Helping Heroes contact: ophelpingheroes@gmail.com.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
05.16.2013	Washington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) released the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 45, legislation to fully repeal the President’s health care law.“There is no doubt that ObamaCare will take our nation’s health care system toward a path of socialized medicine,” said Aderholt. “The President promised his over $1 billion health care overhaul would reduce costs, increase access and provide affordable options for all Americans. The reality is ObamaCare is increasing the health care costs, stifling medical innovation and slowing hiring.”“Since ObamaCare’s implementation the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) has reported that 30 million Americans will remain uninsured and over 7 million people will likely lose their employer sponsored coverage as a result of the law, even though the Administration claimed the law would lead to universal coverage,” said Aderholt.“ObamaCare is a job killer. Last month’s jobs report suggested that the law is already impacting hiring patterns, as small businesses are cutting back workers hours and also freezing hiring any additional workers,” continued Aderholt.“Congress should not only repeal the health care law, but also pass a health care reform package that lowers health care costs, improves quality of care and gives great access to all Americans. Repealing ObamaCare means we can move forward with a commonsense approach that will decrease burdens, lower costs and protect American jobs,” concluded Aderholt.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
05.03.2013	Northport, AL — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today welcomed more than 175 entries from talented student artists to this year’s 4th Congressional District art competition at Northport City Hall in Northport, AL.“Every year our judges have a tough time deciding which pieces of artwork should receive top honors and with over 175 entries this year was especially challenging for them,” said Aderholt. “Each of the pieces here today exhibit the incredible talent and creativity of the students in the 4th Congressional District. Whether they place in the competition or not, I am happy to see these students apply themselves in this way. We have seen some truly impressive art today.”The ‘Best of Show’ winner’s artwork will be displayed for one year in the Capitol as part of an exhibit entitled “An Artistic Discovery.” The winner will also be invited to the national exhibit opening in Washington, DC, this summer, including events such as an opening reception and ribbon cutting ceremony.Awards were also presented in the categories of: paintings, drawings, collages, prints, mixed media, computer graphics and photography.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
05.02.2013	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) along with fellow Congressional Sponsor Congressman Mike McIntyre (NC-07) hosted the 62nd annual National Day of Prayer service at the United States Capitol today. The National Day of Prayer is an annual observance held on the first Thursday of May and celebrated by thousands of people in Washington, DC and around the country. This year’s observance was themed “Pray For America,” “In His name the nations will put their hope,” Matthew 12:21.“The strong faith of our founding fathers guided them as they led our country in its beginning and it is important that our faith in God continues to lead us even today,” said Aderholt. “This nation is great because our founding fathers committed to prayer and the principles of their faith and it’s important for America to remember our heritage. The teachings of Jesus are as timeless today as they were over 2000 years ago and 200 years ago. Days of prayer have a long-standing and significant history in the United States and I am honored to be a part of that tradition again this year.”Speakers at this year’s service included Pastor Greg Laurie, Dr. and Mrs. James C. Dobson, Chaplain Barry Black, Representative Frank Wolf, Mrs. Vonette Bright, Rear Admiral William D. Lee and Chaplain Colonel Thomas Waynick.The National Day of Prayer was officially created in 1952 by a joint resolution of the United States Congress, and signed into law by President Harry S. Truman. Every president since 1952 has signed a National Day of Prayer proclamation.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
04.26.2013	Washington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), Chairman of the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies Subcommittee of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement after the Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Dr. Margaret Hamburg; Deputy Assistant Secretary for Budget of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), Mr. Norris Cochran; and FDA’s Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Jay Tyler testified before the Subcommittee.“The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is facing many challenges such as drug safety at compounding pharmacies, drug shortages and protecting our nation’s food supply from foodborne illnesses,” said Aderholt. “However, instead of submitting a proposal with solutions to address these important challenges, the Administration is again focusing on using sequestration scare tactics as license to submit another budget request two months late.”“In February, the White House announced sequestration could mean 2,100 fewer FDA food inspections at both domestic and foreign food manufacturing and processing facilities. Meanwhile, the Commissioner has made statements that the number was just an estimate, the effects of sequestration would not be felt for a while and the FDA would not have to furlough workers. We are now heading into the third month of sequestration, and according to the White House our nation’s food supply is a lot less safe. What the Agency fails to acknowledge is that the FDA’s own testimony states that they are on track to complete a record number of inspections this year, and that Congress has continued to provide increases to FDA for food safety over the past three years when nearly all other agencies across the federal government have had to drastically tighten their belts. Once again this Subcommittee is receiving conflicting information from the Administration,” continued Aderholt.“Further, this year’s budget proposal is nearly identical to last year’s budget and includes the continuation of millions in taxpayer dollars for a number of programs FDA previously described as one-time requests. The numbers in this budget request and the rhetoric surrounding it just do not add up. I do appreciate Dr. Hamburg and her colleagues’ testimony here today, however, it is disappointing that this Subcommittee has been presented with such mixed messages when it comes to the agency’s needs and priorities. With today’s challenging budgetary environment, now more than ever, status quo spending should not be FDA’s goal,” concluded Aderholt. Click here to view Chairman Aderholt’s entire opening statement as prepared for delivery.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
04.25.2013	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), Chairman of the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies Subcommittee of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement after the United States Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Under Secretary for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services, Mr. Michael Scuse; Administrator for the Farm Service Agency, Mr. Juan Garcia; Administrator for the Foreign Agricultural Service, Ms. Suzanne Heinen; Administrator for the Risk Management Agency, Mr. Brandon Willis; and USDA Budget Director, Mr. Mike Young testified before the Subcommittee.“Most Americans do not see the behind the scenes work done within the Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services mission area,” said Aderholt. “This agency manages vital programs that help farmers and ranchers produce an abundant and diverse food supply for consumers here and abroad.”“Against the backdrop of a very poor economy, agriculture exports continue to be a bright spot in our nation’s trade balance. Over the past four years, exports from the U.S. have exceeded $478billion and are on track to set a new record this year. Sadly, this is the second year in a row we have not seen any new initiatives, efforts or plans by USDA to do more for agriculture exports. USDA’s Economic Research Service estimates that for every $1 billion of agricultural exports, an estimated 6,800 jobs are supported and an additional $1.29 billion in economic activity is generated. Our nation cannot afford to miss this opportunity, especially when 95 percent of the world’s consumers live outside the United States,” continued Aderholt.“Further, rather than focus their efforts on increasing trade, job and growth opportunities for American producers, the Administration is instead focusing on a proposal to move $1.4 billion from the Food for Peace program under USDA’s jurisdiction to international development assistance programs under State and Foreign Operations jurisdiction. The Food for Peace program as it is currently structured nearly doubles the return on the American taxpayer’s investment by supporting jobs and farmers here at home, while providing food security across the globe,” added Aderholt.“In today’s challenging budgetary environment, strategic spending is more critical than ever before. This Subcommittee continues to find this Administration’s efforts to spend less where the proven benefits are exponential, and more on some of the same funding areas to maintain the status quo. We will remind the Administration once again that our constituents expect us to make smarter, forward-looking decisions when investing their hard earned taxpayer dollars,” concluded Aderholt.Click here to view Chairman Aderholt’s entire opening statement as prepared for delivery.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
04.24.2013	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), Chairman of the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies Subcommittee of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement after the United States Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Deputy Under Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment, Ms. Ann Mills; Acting Chief for the Natural Resources Conservation Service, Mr. Jason Weller; and USDA Budget Director Mr. Mike Young testified before the Subcommittee.“Much of USDA’s Natural Resources and Environmental mission area focuses on helping farmers, foresters, ranchers, and private landowners maintain productive lands through joint conservation efforts,” said Aderholt. “Preserving, protecting, and enhancing American land is an important mission with an important legacy—a legacy that cannot continue to exist without integrity and transparency.”“Over the years the activities of the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) have been essential to countless farm and ranch families, but after another outside audit in 2012 identified several deficiencies in NRCS’s financial statements. This Subcommittee has been concerned with the agency’s management of its programs and financial systems for several years and with this latest audit we are increasingly concerned that few changes have been implemented. Though much of NRCS’s funding is mandatory, our concerns about these continued deficiencies require us to provide even greater scrutiny of the agency’s discretionary request of $808 million,” continued Aderholt.“With today’s budgetary restrictions and the importance of the USDA’s conservation work, we must be ever mindful of the investment taxpayers are making in federal programs. Though many may not know it, federal conservation programs have benefitted nearly all Americans and that is something this Subcommittee would like to see continue into the future. However, NRCS must find a way to improve its financial and accounting systems. I thank Ms. Mills and Mr. Weller for their testimony today and hope this Subcommittee sees NRSC’s efforts to continue the great legacy of these programs, while being good stewards of taxpayer dollars,” concluded Aderholt.Click here to view Chairman Aderholt’s entire opening statement as prepared for delivery.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
04.24.2013	Washington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), Chairman of the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies Subcommittee of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement after the United States Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Deputy Under Secretary for Rural Development, Mr. Doug O’Brien; Acting Administrator for the Rural Utility Service, Mr. John Padalino; Acting Administrator for the Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Ms. Lillian Salerno; Administrator for the Rural Housing Service, Ms. Tammye Trevino; and USDA Budget Director, Mr. Mike Young testified before the Subcommittee.“USDA is the sole federal department tasked with serving the needs of rural America,” said Aderholt. “I am concerned that the budget request presented before this Subcommittee today does not address these needs but is instead a ‘pay for’ to allow spending elsewhere. For example, rather than continue to invest in the most successful of the Rural Developments programs and missions like Single Family Direct Loans and Water and Waste Disposal grants, we see dramatic cuts to these programs that have helped rural areas most in recent years.”“While the Department has a $3.2 billion backlog in rural water and sewer applications, a $47 million backlog in my home state of Alabama alone, USDA proposes to cut funding to Water and Waste Disposal grants by $106 million. This program supports development, growth and job creation in the smallest and most needy rural communities. Before the Administration looks at this program as a line item to tout its deficit reduction efforts, this Subcommittee questions how the USDA will address this multi-billion backlog with even less funding,” added Aderholt.“This budget proposes focusing $55 million on a new, unproven, and seemingly unjustified grant program called the Rural Business and Cooperative Grant Program. This subcommittee appreciates USDA’s efforts to improve efficiency and effectiveness. However, if the department is serious about this concept it needs to submit a formal legislative proposal – not the one included in the budget request – so that the appropriate authorizing committees can consider it,” continued Aderholt. “I appreciate the testimony of Mr. O’Brien and his colleagues today, however, we must make sure that this budget request is in tune with the real needs of rural communities across America,” concluded Aderholt.Click here to view Chairman Aderholt’s entire opening statement as prepared for delivery.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
04.19.2013	Aderholt Traveling Help Desk to Visit Red BayCongressional Staff On-Site to Assist Constituents with Federal CaseworkWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today announced that District Field Representative Kreg Kennedy will be in Red Bay on Friday, April 26 to provide assistance to those needing help working with federal agencies. “With a district that stretches across the state, it can be difficult for people to travel to our district offices when they need help,” said Aderholt. “By bringing district staff to local communities, we can effectively assist those who otherwise would be unable to get support. This is an excellent opportunity for folks to come and discuss their issues with Kreg, who will help me begin the process of finding solutions for them.”Friday, April 26 Traveling Help DeskRed Bay City Hall203 4th Avenue SERed Bay, AL 355829:00am – 12:00pm Congressional offices can help with a variety of federal issues, including Social Security, Veterans Affairs and Medicare issues. For a full list of services Congressman Aderholt’s office can assist visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
04.19.2013	Aderholt Traveling Help Desk to Visit NorthportCongressional Staff On-Site to Assist Constituents with Federal CaseworkWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today announced that District Field Director Paul Housel will be in Northport on Friday, April 26 to provide assistance to those needing help working with federal agencies. “With a district that stretches across the state, it can be difficult for people to travel to our district offices when they need help,” said Aderholt. “By bringing district staff to local communities, we can effectively assist those who otherwise would be unable to get support. This is an excellent opportunity for folks to come and discuss their issues with Paul, who will help me begin the process of finding solutions for them.”Friday, April 26 Traveling Help DeskNorthport City Hall3500 McFarland BoulevardNorthport, AL 354769:00am – 4:30pm Congressional offices can help with a variety of federal issues, including Social Security, Veterans Affairs and Medicare issues. For a full list of services Congressman Aderholt’s office can assist visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
04.18.2013	Washington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), Chairman of the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies Subcommittee of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement after the United States Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs Mr. Ed Avalos, Acting Administrator for the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service Mr. Kevin Shea, Administrator for the Agricultural and Marketing Service Mr. Dave Shipman, Administrator for the Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration Mr. Larry Mitchell and USDA Budget Director Mr. Mike Young testified before the Subcommittee.“The USDA’s Marketing and Regulatory Programs’ (MRP) mission areas are vitally important to the marketing of our nation’s agricultural products and ensuring the health and care of animals and plants,” said Aderholt. “MRP’s diverse portfolio, coupled with the fact they receive funding from a number of different accounts is quite unique and requires careful scrutiny of MRP’s $925.5 million fiscal year 2014 budget request to this Subcommittee.”“The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) is the USDA’s leading agency for fighting trade barriers overseas and helping U.S. exporters open new markets. Increasing access to foreign markets allows for the sale of more U.S. agricultural products and thereby supports more U.S. jobs. The Administration claims it is strongly committed to programs that create jobs and expand markets, therefore one of the questioned that was posted today was concerning the proposed decrease in funding to an area where level or increased funding could ultimately equal more American jobs,” continued Aderholt.“Livestock and poultry are vital industries to the economies of my home state of Alabama and the entire country. In fact, the economic impact of the poultry industry alone is estimated at $257 billion. With an industry of this size and scope and continued incidents of Avian Influenza in places like our neighboring country of Mexico and the latest outbreak in China that resulted in 10 or more deaths, I find avian health an unlikely place for the Administration to look for cost savings. Nevertheless, hearing from Under Secretary Avalos was very important to our oversight duties and I thank him and his colleagues for their testimony, ” concluded Aderholt.Click here to view Chairman Aderholt’s entire opening statement as prepared for delivery.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
04.17.2013	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), Chairman of the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies Subcommittee of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement after the United States Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Under Secretary for Research, Education and Economics and Chief Scientist Dr. Catherine Wotecki, Administrator of the National Agriculture Statistics Service Dr. Cynthia Clark, Administrator of the Economic Research Service Dr. Mary Bohman, Administrator of the Agricultural Research Service Dr. Ed Knipling, Director of the National Institute of Food and Agriculture Dr. Sonny Ramaswamy, and USDA Budget Director Mr. Mike Young testified before the Subcommittee.“This Subcommittee has a strong tradition of supporting agricultural research programs,” said Aderholt. “While USDA has a very broad research mandate, neither Congress nor USDA can fund every worthwhile or interesting project proposed even if it meets the goals of the Research, Education and Economics Action plan. In today’s budgetary environment, USDA must prioritize its research missions in an effort to give American taxpayers the best possible return on their investment.”“In this year’s budget request, the Department proposes the Agriculture Research Service (ARS) spend $155 million to design and build a new state-of-the-art poultry science lab in Athens, Georgia, meanwhile consolidating six existing laboratories across the country and closing a facility in Arkansas. While this Subcommittee is generally supportive of investments in infrastructure for agricultural research, we need more information on how this new lab will help researchers better understand poultry diseases and improve the health of U.S. poultry,” continued Aderholt. “I appreciate the National Institute of Food and Agriculture’s (NIFA) efforts over the past two years to consolidate and streamline the management of some of its programs. However, this Subcommittee is concerned about NIFA’s disregard for our request for information on the scope, timeline and cost of a number of their programs, including the Agriculture and Food Research Initiative (AFRI),” added Aderholt.“While today’s hearing was productive, this Subcommittee is left with several unanswered questions. In particular, questions regarding specific program details that are vital to this body doing its job. We do not offer these directives and ask for this type of information without reason and we encourage Dr. Wotecki and her colleagues to comply with these directives, or this Subcommittee will be forced to make the Department’s research programs funding and allocation decisions without this important data,” concluded Aderholt.Click here to view Chairman Aderholt’s entire opening statement as prepared for delivery.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
04.16.2013	Aderholt Questions Secretary Vilsack on USDA Budget RequestDemands answers on the administration’s lack of investment in agriculture exports, creative accounting and false savings Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), Chairman of the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies Subcommittee of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement after Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack; Dr. Joe Glauber, the United States Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Chief Economist; and Mike Young USDA’s Budget Director testified before the Subcommittee about the Administration’s $137.5 billion total request for fiscal year 2014.“Keeping American agriculture safe and competitive is no easy task and with that in mind this Subcommittee has worked to ensure the Department has adequate resources to successfully complete that task,” said Aderholt. “The Administration claims its $18 billion discretionary request for fiscal year 2014 is $109 million below fiscal year 2013 enacted levels; however, there are concerns that once again the Administration is relying on creative accounting and budget gimmicks to find such ‘savings’.”“The reality is the Department’s request includes $1.3 billion in spending increases that are largely offset by a proposal to move $1.4 billion from the Food for Peace program under USDA’s jurisdiction to international development assistance programs under State and Foreign Operations jurisdiction,” continued Aderholt.“Against the backdrop of a very poor economy, agriculture exports continue to be a bright spot in our nation’s trade balance. U.S. agriculture exports have exceeded $478 billion over the past four years and they are on track to set a new record this year. However, this is the second year in a row we have not seen any new efforts, initiatives or plans by USDA to do more for agricultural exports. As we look for avenues for cost savings and programs that promote growth, I think the Department is missing a major investment opportunity when it comes to agriculture exports,” added Aderholt.“I greatly appreciate Secretary Vilsack’s testimony before the Agriculture Subcommittee today; however, there are still a lot of unanswered questions and I am disappointed the Administration once again provided us with an unrealistic budget that is paid for by $1.1 trillion in new taxes, never balances and as some would say is essentially dead on arrival,” concluded Aderholt.Click here to view Chairman Aderholt’s entire opening statement as prepared for delivery.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
04.12.2013	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) awarded the State of Alabama a $1,340,171 grant for the Druid City Hospital in Tuscaloosa, Alabama.“As our communities continue to rebuild from the April 2011 tornadoes, it is important that we not only rebuild, but rebuild stronger and safer in the event storms like this strike again,” said Aderholt. “This grant from the Federal Emergency Management Agency will allow DCH Regional Medical Center to retrofit existing windows to withstand tornado winds of 250 MPH in portions of the hospital where patients cannot be relocated. Though the relief crews and the national spotlight have moved on, these funds are another example of ongoing federal support to bring our communities back to life and the potential to save lives in the future.”Sammy Watson, Director of Community Relations for DCH Health System said, “We thank Congressman Aderholt and his staff in helping us to secure this grant. DCH also thanks FEMA for recognizing the importance of this project. This grant has the potential to save the lives of our most vulnerable citizens and DCH Health System looks forward to the completion of this project.”This project is funded through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Hazard Mitigation Grant Program. The investment is intended to support the community’s long-term recovery, leverage private investment and promote disaster resiliency.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
04.12.2013	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), Chairman of the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies Subcommittee on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement after the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) Chairman Gary Gensler and Commissioner Scott O’Malia (who provided a dissenting opinion to the CFTC’s FY14 budget request) testified before the Subcommittee regarding CFTC’s priorities and FY14 budget request of $315 million, a 53 percent increase over the current levels and a 44 percent increase in staff.”“There is no doubt that the futures, options and swaps marketplace the CFTC is responsible for overseeing is integral to our nation’s free-enterprise system,” said Aderholt. “Since the financial crisis of 2008, the CFTC has enjoyed six consecutive increases in funding, for an overall increase of 85 percent. In light of the Commission’s funding history and today’s tough economic environment, this Subcommittee must question the wisdom of fulfilling such a large request. We must ensure the CFTC is executing its mission, while giving American taxpayers the best possible bang for their buck.”“In FY12 the bankruptcies of MF Global International and Peregrine Financial resulted in the first ever loss of segregated customer funds in the future and options market. These companies took customer money and used it for risky investments and fraudulent activities that ultimately cost American investors $1.8 billion. Under its current outdated processes CFTC does not seem able to perform core functions, like protecting investor money here in the U.S. More money funneled into a broken system is not going to solve this problem or provide better oversight. I have a hard time finding a 53 percent budget increase justifiable at all, much less without significant oversight functions attached to ensure this does not happen again.”“Additionally, at a time when technology has allowed more than 80 percent of the transactions under the Commission’s jurisdiction to be conducted electronically, the Commission continues to hire additional staff at a premium price, rather than make sound investments in technology to match the market. For example, in 2012 CFTC received more than 5,000 paper forms quarterly and entered them by hand into an electronic database. With 82 percent of the CFTC’s staff taking home a six-figure salary, this is one expensive exercise. CFTC has returned to staffing levels similar to the early 1990’s, when only 10 percent of the market traded electronically and people were needed to watch human traders. It seems completely unjustifiable that the Commission need the same number of employees as it did 20 years ago, when technology has completely revolutionized trading today.”“I appreciate Chairman Gensler and Commissioner O’Malia’s testimony today, however, it seems the CFTC still has some serious work to do in properly prioritizing and managing its resources and fulfilling its core mission. Now more than ever we need to look for cost effective solutions to streamline our federal budget; the CFTC is certainly no exception. As we move through the appropriations process this year this Subcommittee will work to increase oversight and ensure American taxpayers see a real return on their investment.” concluded Aderholt.Click here to view Chairman Aderholt’s entire opening statement as prepared for delivery.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
04.10.2013	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement in response to the President’s FY14 budget proposal:“Today the President submitted his budget proposal to Congress,” said Aderholt. “While there are some important funding items in the President’s budget, the reality is his budget will never balance. Further, it includes $1.1 trillion in new taxes and the Administration is once again relying on budget gimmicks, rather than real cuts, to claim their budget reduces our nation’s staggering $16.7 trillion deficit.”“We cannot spend our way to prosperity, nor can we tax our way to a balanced budget. That is one reason why I supported the House-passed budget last month that makes the tough choices necessary to get our nation’s budget to balance in ten years, without raising taxes on hardworking American families and small businesses,” continued Aderholt.“It is clear that Republicans and Democrats in Washington see budgeting differently. The question remains how does the President view his budget, as a final offer or as a start to finding common ground and to finally completing a fiscally responsible budget, that balances and does so without raising taxes,” concluded Aderholt.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
04.10.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representatives Bill Posey (R-FL), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Chairman Frank Wolf (R-VA), Robert Aderholt (R-AL), John Culberson (R-TX), Steve Stockman (R-TX), Pete Olson (R-TX), Rob Bishop (R-UT) and Ted Poe (R-TX) have once again reintroduced bipartisan legislation directing NASA to develop a plan for returning to the Moon and establishing a human presence there. The RE-asserting American Leadership in Space Act, or REAL Space Act, sets a clear course for NASA toward human space flight while keeping within current budgetary constraints.“The Moon is our nearest celestial body, taking only a matter of days to reach,” said Rep. Bill Posey, who as a young man worked on the Apollo Program at the Kennedy Space Center. “In order to explore deeper into space—to Mars and beyond—a moon presence offers us the ability to develop and test technologies to cope with the realities of operating on an extraterrestrial surface.”“Space is the world’s ultimate high ground, returning to the Moon and reinvigorating our human space flight program is a matter of national security. Returning to the moon would allow NASA to continue to develop technologies that have not only enhanced our exploration programs but have been applied across all disciplines of science,” said Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee.“Last year, the National Research Council committee charged with reviewing NASA’s strategic direction found that there was no support within NASA or from our international partners for the administration’s proposed asteroid mission. However, there is broad support for NASA to lead a return to the Moon. So the U.S. can either lead that effort, or another country will step up and lead that effort in our absence -- which would be very unfortunate,” said Rep. Frank Wolf, Chairman of the House Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations Subcommittee.“Moon missions, both human and robotic, offer the United States true international cooperation, while ensuring that we lead from the front. Other nations, private industry, and government experts all regard the Moon as the right place for NASA to direct its resources. The time to reassert the United States as the leader in space is now and the REAL Space Act is the next step,” said Rep. Robert Aderholt. “Congress should be committed to NASA and to expanding the frontiers of scientific progress. This bill is the correct path forward to get Americans to the Moon and expand human knowledge,” saidRep. Steve Stockman who represents the John Space Center in Houston, Texas. “With a real destination and a realistic timetable, we can achieve our greatest dreams. Without it, we risk seeing our future plans perpetually delayed or cancelled, and only watching as other nations seize the lead in space exploration—and reap the benefits in jobs, inventions, investments, national pride and international respect. I urge my fellow Members of Congress to cosponsor this vital legislation, and I urge space advocates and organizations to join together in support of this bill and in support of the Moon being the stepping stone to Mars.”Rep. Pete Olson said, “The REAL Space Act clarifies NASA's mission, something it has been lacking in recent years. Human space exploration is critically important to America's global future. President Kennedy understood that the real benefit of exploration to our nation was not landing men on the moon, but what it would take to get there — the technology, the initiative and the will to do it. He knew, as we know, that space exploration is both a scientific and national security priority. This legislation sets clear and achievable goals that will ensure America maintains global preeminence in both space exploration and scientific discovery.”Rep. Rob Bishop said, “This legislation is not just about landing another human on the Moon. It is about restoring our nation’s now defunct human space flight program and setting clear and achievable goals that will lead to advancements in science and technology. If we are to be leaders in the exploration of the cosmos, to the Moon and beyond, we must have our own innovative resources to get there. It’s going to be next to impossible to maintain our preeminence in the exploration of space if we are having to hitch rides from other countries. Going back to the moon has always been an essential stepping stone for technology development for manned exploration to other parts of the galaxy. This legislation restores and clarifies NASA’s role in human space flight and sets the U.S. back on course to lead exploration of the cosmos.”Specifically, the REAL Space Act directs NASA to plan to return to the Moon by 2022 and develop a sustained human presence there as a stepping stone for the future exploration of Mars and other destinations within our solar system. The legislation also emphasizes the importance of maintaining the United States’ preeminence in space, and underscores the necessity of preserving America’s independent access to space.Returning to the Moon presents many scientific, technological and economic benefits for the United States and the world at large. The economic contribution of NASA’s space program is in the tens of billions of dollars. The technologies developed through and transferred from our nation's program have created advancements across all disciplines of science and advances in healthcare in particular have saved and enriched countless lives.Aside from providing a training ground for space faring enabling technologies, humans still have much to learn from exploring the Moon. To date, twelve Americans have explored a section of our Moon smaller than the National Mall. There are many minerals, isotopes, and other natural resources that can be gleaned from the Moon’s surface such as ice deposits, which can be used to sustain an outpost or produce rocket propellant for deep space exploration.Setting the Moon as the goal will reengage the public’s interest in the space program and inspire a new generation of American students to study science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) where they currently lag behind students in competitor nations. # # #
04.04.2013	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today announced that District Field Director Paul Housel will be in Northport on Friday, April 12 to provide assistance to those needing help working with federal agencies. “With a district that stretches across the state, it can be difficult for people to travel to our district offices when they need help,” said Aderholt. “By bringing district staff to local communities, we can effectively assist those who otherwise would be unable to get support. This is an excellent opportunity for folks to come and discuss their issues with Paul, who will help me begin the process of finding solutions for them.”Friday, April 12 Traveling Help DeskNorthport City Hall3500 McFarland BoulevardNorthport, AL 35476 9:00am – 4:30pm Congressional offices can help with a variety of federal issues, including Social Security, Veterans Affairs and Medicare issues. For a full list of services Congressman Aderholt’s office can assist visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
04.04.2013	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today announced that the U.S. Economic Development Administration (EDA) awarded $2,643,730 to the City of Sheffield in Colbert County for ongoing disaster recovery efforts from the tornadoes that ripped through our state in April 2011.“While the spotlight is no longer on the destruction of the April 2011 tornadoes, efforts to rebuild continue across the 4thCongressional District and this grant from the Economic Development Administration is another example of continued federal support,” said Aderholt. “These funds will help rebuild critical infrastructure in our area, save jobs, open new opportunities for economic growth, and help to spur job creation in our communities. These storms decimated so much of our state and I am pleased to see that the federal government is keeping its promise to work with local partners to ensure we are able to rebuild.”The City of Sheffield was awarded $2,643,730 for construction of flood control infrastructure necessary to protect a local hospital and create new areas for future economic development in Sheffield. This project will make the area more flood resilient and save more than 1,000 jobs in our area.This project is funded through the FY 2012 Disaster Relief Opportunity administered through the U.S. Economic Development Administration. The investment is intended to support a community’s long-term recovery, spur job creation, leverage private investment, and promote disaster resiliency.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
04.04.2013	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today announced his office would begin taking submissions for the 2013 Congressional Art Competition.“I am pleased to announce we are accepting entries for this year’s 4th Congressional District Art Competition,” said Aderholt. “The competition is a great opportunity for high school students in our area to showcase their talents and creativity. Alabama’s artists are among some of the best in the nation, making the decision to pick just one winner a challenging one. I am grateful that this decision is tasked to our wonderful selection committee and I look forward to seeing everyone’s great work later this spring.”Each year in the spring, Congressman Aderholt serves as Honorary Chairman of “An Artistic Discovery,” a program founded by Congress in 1982 to recognize the creative talents of young Americans. Congressman Aderholt cordially invites all high school students in the Fourth Congressional District (public, private and home school) to be a part of this exciting event. If you would like to participate or know a student that would like to participate, please contact Mrs. Pat Ellis in Congressman Aderholt’s Jasper District Office by Monday April 15, 2013 for guidelines and further information. Mrs. Ellis can be reached at 205-221-2310 or by email at pat.ellis@mail.house.gov.Following the local competition in Northport, AL on May 3rd, the Best of Show winner will be invited to a national reception and exhibit in Washington D. C. along with winners from across the nation. Besides the Best of Show, there are seven artwork categories with first, second and third place recognition.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
03.21.2013	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), Chairman of the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies Subcommittee for the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement after the United States Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Inspector General Phyllis Fong, Assistant Inspector General for Investigations Karen Ellis and Assistant Inspector General for Audits Gil Harden testified before the Subcommittee.“Combating waste, fraud and abuse of federal taxpayer dollars at USDA is no easy task, but it is a critical mission of the Office of the Inspector General (OIG),” said Aderholt. “While I appreciate that progress has been made by USDA, I remain very concerned with the high-dollar fraud happening in food and nutrition assistance programs like SNAP and WIC and USDA’s longstanding challenges with information technology investments and security.”“The Food and Nutrition Service (FNS) estimates there is $800 million in federal nutrition assistance that is spent fraudulently every year. However, a recent OIG report says FNS has not established processes to estimate or identify the total amount of SNAP fraud occurring nationwide. If USDA is not even sure it can estimate the fraud happening within its nutrition programs, how can we accurately and efficiently take steps to eliminate that fraud and improve the Department’s programs?”“In this day and age, cyber threats are one of the biggest dangers our country faces. Over the past three years, Congress has made a $66 million investment through the Office of the Chief Information Officer (OCIO) to address these issues. However, a recent audit found that despite this investment, there are more than 25 OIG recommendations that have not been acted upon. While it seems the OCIO is working to minimize cyber threats, this Subcommittee believes that the Department needs to do far more to address this urgent matter. This is a matter of our nation’s economic security and should not be taken lightly.”“While I am pleased to see progress is being made in reducing fraud and mismanagement of taxpayer resources, significant waste and deficiencies within USDA still remain, and in today’s tough budget environment we simply cannot afford to be wasteful.”Click here to view Chairman Aderholt’s entire opening statement as prepared for delivery.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
03.21.2013	Washington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), Chairman of the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies Subcommittee on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement after the United States House of Representatives passed a final continuing resolution for fiscal year 2013:“While continuing resolutions are not an ideal way to operate, the legislation passed today cuts wasteful Washington spending and avoids a government shut down,” said Aderholt. “Further, the bill includes important language from Senator Pryor and Senator Blunt that transfers $55 million in existing agriculture funds to the Food Safety and Inspection Service to ensure food inspectors are not furloughed.”“Though I am disappointed that once again it has taken an act of Congress to get this Administration to do the right thing, I am grateful to Senators Pryor and Blunt for offering a common-sense solution to this funding gap and helping us protect American families and producers,” concluded Aderholt. Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
03.21.2013	Washington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement after the United States House of Representatives passed the House Republican fiscal year 2014 budget resolution:“This week the House of Representatives is once again keeping its promise to get our nation’s fiscal house in order,” said Aderholt. “Implementing a responsible budget that address our nation’s staggering $16.7 trillion debt and Washington’s tax and spend culture is a must to spur job creation and long-term economic growth.”“While Democrats in Washington have been incredibly unserious and imprudent about budgeting, House Republicans have shown they are willing to make the tough choices necessary to get our budget to balance in ten years. The Democrats budget would raise taxes by $1.5 trillion and would never balance, while the budget passed in the House today includes targeted spending cuts that forces Washington to live within its means,” continued Aderholt.“Washington cannot spend its way to prosperity, nor can we tax our way to a balanced budget. We simply have to cut government spending and we have to do it today to ensure our children and grandchildren will live in a stable, successful America they can be proud of,” concluded AderholtAderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
03.15.2013	Aderholt Supports the SKILLS ActLegislation will empower employers, rein in bureaucracy and provide America’s workers with a more dynamic and effective network of job training servicesWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) released the follow statement today after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 803, the Supporting Knowledge and Investing in Lifelong Skills (SKILLS) Act:“As our nation continues to struggle with high unemployment and record levels of debt, streamlining ineffective programs and promoting better use of taxpayer dollars is critically important,” said Aderholt. “The problem is, despite a multi-billion dollar annual taxpayer investment in federal job training programs, employers continue to struggle to find workers with skills necessary to fill in-demand jobs. Rather than helping employers and workers, our current cumbersome workforce training system is making it more difficult for workers to access important jobs skills and assistance, and fails employers who seek a highly trained workforce. The SKILLS Act is the solution. I am proud to support this legislation and hope to see its swift passage in the Senate.”The SKILLS Act eliminates and streamlines 35 ineffective and duplicative programs, including 27 identified in a 2011 report by the nonpartisan Government Accountability Office. The proposal creates a flexible Workforce Investment Fund to serve as a single source of support for workers, employers and job seekers. Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
03.14.2013	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today announced that the U.S. Economic Development Administration (EDA) awarded $5,934,760 among three communities in the 4th Congressional District for ongoing disaster recovery efforts from the tornadoes that ripped through our state on April 11, 2011.“Though the cameras are now gone and FEMA has packed up and left, long-term recovery efforts continue across the 4thCongressional District and these grants from the Economic Development Administration are examples of continued federal support,” said Aderholt. “These funds will help rebuild vital infrastructure that is critical to families and businesses. Further, these investments will save jobs, open additional areas for economic growth, and spur job creation in our communities. The April 2011 storms decimated so much of our state. I am pleased to see that the federal government is keeping its commitment to work with local partners to ensure we are able to rebuild and revive our communities.”The City of Cordova was awarded $1,175,752 for relocation of water and natural gas infrastructure to the downtown central business district to protect the utilities and mitigate future disruptions.The Town of Hackleburg was awarded $3,201,600 for the construction of critical water infrastructure necessary to support increased capacity.The Town of Phil Campbell was awarded $1,557,408 for the construction of critical water and sewer infrastructures to support the reconstruction of businesses in the Phil Campbell North Industrial Park. These projects are funded through the FY 2012 Disaster Relief Opportunity administered through the U.S. Economic Development Administration. Each disaster recovery investment is intended to support a community’s long-term recovery, spur job creation, leverage private investment, and promote disaster resiliency.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
03.14.2013	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) ), Chairman of the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies Subcommittee on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement after the Administrator of the Food and Nutrition Service at the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Audrey Rowe testified before the Subcommittee.“In FY12 the federal government spent over $106 billion on nutrition assistance programs, that accounts for nearly 80 percent of the total resources in the Ag Appropriations bill,” said Aderholt. “While the USDA’s nutrition assistance programs were designed to provide a vital safety net for those in need, most can agree that given the size of the taxpayer’s investment, these programs certainly deserve their fair share of oversight.”“The Administration claims to be curbing waste, fraud and abuse in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), however they estimate that more than $800 million in federal food aid is spent fraudulently every year. SNAP also reported $2.7 billion in improper payments in FY11. That’s a staggering amount of taxpayer money that’s being misused in just one of the USDA’s nutrition assistance programs, especially given the current fiscal environment.”“During the President’s first term, participation and costs of the SNAP program have exploded. In fiscal year 2008, SNAP had over 28 million participants and a $40 billion price tag. Four years later, SNAP had nearly 47 million participants and an over $80 billion price tag. The Subcommittee realizes the economy has certainly been a factor in this increase; however, we cannot deny other federal and state eligibility policies have contributed to this growth.”“The Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children, commonly known as WIC, is a program that provides grant money to states, tribal organizations and territories that is struggles with program eligibility requirements and managing its program vendors. For example, there are WIC vendors selling Cheerios at $10 a box, abuse which cost taxpayers $50 million from one state alone. Fortunately, new rules have been implemented to combat this in the future, but it makes me question how many other problems are yet to be found?”“New rules and food standards for the National School Breakfast Program and the National School Lunch Program are burdening a huge number of school districts across the country. Participation in these programs is down nearly four percent, but costs continue to rise. The Department needs to look seriously at the costs versus the benefits of these new rules so our schools are not literally throwing money away.”“The goal of this Subcommittee is to ensure the integrity of these nutrition assistance programs and make sure taxpayer dollars are spent as wisely as possible. The numbers speak for themselves, the Food and Nutrition Service at USDA has some serious work to do to be good stewards of taxpayers limited dollars. Claims of eliminating waste, fraud and abuse are well and good, but we need to see real results, not just rhetoric,” concluded Aderholt.Click here to view Chairman Aderholt’s entire opening statement as prepared for delivery.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
03.13.2013	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), Chairman of the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies Subcommittee on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement after the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Under Secretary for Food Safety Dr. Elisabeth Hagen and Food Safety Inspection Service (FSIS) Administrator Alfred Almanza testified before the Subcommittee today.“Typically the Subcommittee would review FSIS’s budget request for FY14, however the lack of a budget proposal from the President has made that impossible,” said Aderholt. “That said, between Secretary Vilsack’s varying reports of the impact sequestration will have on FSIS Inspectors and the Subcommittee’s oversight responsibilities there were still many questions to ask Dr. Hagen and Administrator Almanza today.”“FSIS is assigned with the unquestionably important task of ensuring our nation’s meat, poultry and processed egg products are safe, wholesome and correctly labeled and packaged for consumers. With this in mind, the Administration has been using FSIS and inspector furloughs as one of their sky-is-falling scare tactics regarding the sequester cuts. Understanding that furlough days are still possible, the Administration has a choice. It is my hope that the Administration understands that the campaign season is over and it is time to govern in the best interest of the country.”“Unfortunately, even after today’s hearing we are still lacking a clear answer on how many days per pay period inspectors will be furloughed, when those furloughs will begin and how they will impact our nation’s producers and food supply. I hope that the Department can find a reasonable and responsible way to meet the challenges about sequestration, while minimizing the impact on frontline inspectors, the industry, and our nation’s commercial meat and poultry supply,” concluded Aderholt.Click here to view Chairman Aderholt’s entire opening statement as prepared for delivery.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
03.06.2013	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), Chairman of the Agriculture Subcommittee on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 933, a Continuing Resolution (CR) that funds federal programs through the end of the fiscal year on September 30, 2013."As sequestration is a less than optimal way to cut spending, a Continuing Resolution is a less than optimal way to budget. That said, it is important to note that we are cutting spending, avoiding a government shut down and providing the Pentagon some flexibility to mitigate the impact of the sequester cuts. No one said that pumping the brakes on runaway spending would be easy or that the Democrats would not fight us every step of the way. It is my hope that the Senate begins to understand that spending cuts and budgets are not optional, they are absolutely imperative to getting our nation on fiscally sound path," said Aderholt. Continuing Resolution SummaryLevel of Funding – The CR extends funding for operations for all federal agencies, programs and services until the end of the fiscal year on September 30, 2013. This funding is subject to sequestration, bringing the top-line overall rate of spending in the CR down to the sequestration level of approximately $982 billion. Department of Defense and War Funding:The CR includes the fiscal year 2013 Department of Defense Appropriations bill, which passed the House on a broad bipartisan basis last year, and which has been negotiated by the House and Senate.The Defense portion of the legislation includes funding for critical national security needs, and provides the necessary resources to continue the nation’s military efforts abroad. In addition, the bill provides essential funding for health and quality-of-life programs for the men and women of the Armed Forces and their families.In total, the bill provides $518.1 billion in non-war funding, which is equal to the fiscal year 2012 level and $2 billion above the President’s request. In addition, the bill contains $87.2 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) for Defense activities related to the Global War on Terror.All of this funding is subject to sequestration, except where noted below.Military Personnel and Pay – The legislation includes $127.5 billion to provide for 1,402,108 active-duty troops and 843,286 reserves. This funding level is $3.6 billion below last year, due to the reduction in troop totals. This also includes a 1.7% pay raise for the military, which is in line with authorized totals. This funding is exempt from sequestration.Defense Health and Military Family Programs – The bill contains $32.7 billion – $233 million above last year’s level – for Defense health and family programs to provide care for our troops, military families, and retirees. This funding includes critical medial research on combat-related illnesses and injuries, including in areas such as brain trauma, psychological health, suicide, spinal injuries and prosthetics.Operation and Maintenance – The legislation approves $173.5 billion for operation and maintenance – $1.4 billion below the request and $10.4 billion above enacted levels. This is essential funding for key readiness programs to prepare our troops for combat and peace-time missions, flight time and battle training, equipment and facility maintenance, and base operations.Research and Development – The bill contains $70 billion – $2.5 billion below last year’s level and $521 million above the President’s request – for research, development, testing, and evaluation of new defense technologies. This basic and applied research, system development, and testing will help to advance the safety and success of current and future military operations, and will help prepare our nation to meet a broad range of potential future security threats.Equipment Procurement – The legislation provides a total of $100.4 billion – $4.2 billion below last year and $1.3 billion below the President’s request – for equipment and upgrades. This funding is necessary to ensure our nation’s military readiness and provide the necessary platforms, weapons, and other equipment our forces need to train, maintain military force structure, and conduct successful operations.Guantanamo Bay – The legislation prohibits funding for transfers of Guantanamo detainees to the U.S. or its territories, prohibits funding to modify any facility in the U.S. to house detainees, and places conditions on the release of detainees to other countries.Savings and Reductions to President’s Request – The bill reflects common-sense decisions to save taxpayer dollars where possible, in areas that will not affect the safety or success of our troops and missions. Some of these reductions include: $4.0 billion in savings from rescissions of unused prior-year funding; $515 million for unjustified Army growth funding; and $500 million for excess inventory of spare parts and secondary items.Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Funding:The CR includes $71.9 billion in discretionary funding for military construction and the Department of Veterans Affairs. This is $210 million above the fiscal year 2012 funding level, and includes increases for Veterans programs balanced by decreases in Military Construction.This portion of the legislation provides the nation’s military with the infrastructure needed to house, train, and equip military personnel, provides for the quality of life of our troops and their families, and maintains our strong military base structure. The bill also funds veterans’ benefits and programs to ensure that all veterans receive the services they have earned as a result of their sacrifices and service to the country.All of this funding is subject to sequestration, except where noted below. Military Construction – The bill provides $10.6 billion for military construction projects – a decrease of $2.4 billion below last year’s level. Much of the reduction is due to the Air Force’s deliberate pause in military construction (saving $839 million) and a continued decline in funding requirements for the BRAC 2005 process.Military Family Housing – The bill provides $1.65 billion for military family housing, which fully funds family housing construction, and operation and maintenance for fiscal year 2013. The funding provided will ensure quality housing will continue to be available for 1,231,044 military families.Military Medical Facilities – The legislation contains $927 million for construction and alterations for new or existing military medical facilities that support and care for 9.6 million military personnel.Department of Defense (DoD) Education Facilities – The bill includes $547 million for essential safety improvements and infrastructure work at DoD Education Activities facilities located both in the U.S. and overseas.Veterans Affairs (VA) – The legislation includes a total of $133.9 billion in both discretionary and mandatory funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs. This funding will help provide the increasing number of our nation’s veterans with the services and care they have earned. Of that total, $61 billion is discretionary funding, an increase of $2.5 billion above last year’s level. (Approximately $52 billion of this discretionary total was provided last year via an advance funding). All of the funding within the Department of Veterans Affairs is exempt from sequestration.VA Medical Services – The bill funds the Veterans Health Administration at $53.3 billion – providing for approximately 6.3 million patients to be treated in fiscal year 2013. In addition, the legislation provides $54.5 billion in advance fiscal year 2014 funding.Minor Construction – Minor construction for the VA is funded at $608 million, which is $125 million above fiscal year 2012. These funds will allow VA to make progress on the hundreds of projects already scheduled to build or renovate health clinics, medical residences, and nursing homes, as well as acquire cemetery land and facilities.VA Mandatory Funding – The bill fulfills mandatory funding requirements such as: veterans disability compensation programs for almost four million veterans and their survivors; post-9-11 GI bill education benefits for more than 600,000 veterans; and vocational rehabilitation and employment training for more than 200,000 veterans.Oversight –The legislation includes provisions to increase oversight of taxpayer dollars at the VA, including requiring the agency to report on construction expenditures and savings, forbidding new changes in the scope of construction projects, and restricting the agency from taking certain spending actions without notifying Congress.General Items – Virtually all policy and funding provisions included in currently enacted Appropriations legislation will carry forward in the CR. However, some changes to current law are needed to prevent catastrophic, irreversible, or detrimental changes to government programs, or to ensure good government and program oversight. These provisions are fundedwithin the total level of funding in the legislation. Some of these provisions include:A provision allowing additional funding for nuclear weapons modernization efforts, to ensure the safety, security, and reliability of the nation’s nuclear stockpile.A provision allowing Customs and Border Protection to maintain current staffing levels.A provision providing additional funding for the FBI to ensure current staffing levels and critical increases in cybersecurity and surveillance.A provision providing roughly $2 billion above the current level for embassy security, which supports the full fiscal year 2013 request and increased security needs identified after the Benghazi attack.A provision allowing additional funding to ensure the safe and secure operation of Federal Prisons.A provision requiring Immigration and Customs Enforcement to sustain the mandated capacity of 34,000 detention beds.A provision extending the current pay freeze for federal employees, which includes Members of Congress and Senators.A provision allowing additional funding for the Department of Interior and the Forest Service for wildfire suppression efforts.A provision allowing additional funding to maintain the launch schedule for new weather satellites, ensuring the continuation of data for weather warnings and forecasts, including forecasts of severe weather events.A provision requiring every federal agency to provide spending plans to Congress to ensure transparency and the proper use of taxpayer dollars.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
03.05.2013	Aderholt Traveling Help Desk to Visit NorthportCongressional Staff On-Site to Assist Constituents with Federal CaseworkWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today announced that District Field Director Paul Housel will be in Northport on Friday, March 8, 2013 to provide assistance to those needing help working with federal agencies. “With a district that stretches across the state, it can be difficult for people to travel to our district offices when they need help,” said Aderholt. “By bringing district staff to local communities, we can effectively assist those who otherwise would be unable to get support. This is an excellent opportunity for folks to come and discuss their issues with Paul, who will help me begin the process of finding solutions for them.”March 8, 2013 Traveling Help DeskNorthport City Hall3500 McFarland BoulevardNorthport, AL 354769:00am – 4:30pm Congressional offices can help with a variety of federal issues, including Social Security, Veterans Affairs and Medicare issues. For a full list of services Congressman Aderholt’s office can assist visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
03.01.2013	Aderholt Statement on SequestrationWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement regarding the President’s sequester, which is scheduled to go into effect today:“Many Members of Congress would like to see a resolution to the sequester, however because of the inaction from the Senate and the President, sequestration is upon us,” said Aderholt. “These automatic, across-the-board cuts that were proposed by the White House could damage our nation’s defense forces and further impact our already fragile economy.”“There is no doubt that we need to cut wasteful Washington spending, but there is a smarter way to reduce government spending than making dangerous and disproportionate cuts to our defense budget.”“The House has voted, not once, but twice to replace the President’s sequester with targeted, responsible cuts that would cut waste, fraud and abuse in the federal bureaucracy and address the true drivers of our nation’s debt. Unfortunately, the Senate didn’t act on either bill.”“The President is set to meet with Congressional Leaders later today to discuss this matter. I hope they have a fruitful conversation that could lead to honest compromise and that soon a resolution can be reached that responsibly cuts federal spending,” concluded Aderholt.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
02.12.2013	Aderholt Statement on the President’s State of the Union Address Washington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the follow statement regarding his hopes for President Barack Obama’s State of the Union address this evening:“The President’s speech tonight focused too much on his desire for gun control, increased government spending and decreased illegal immigration enforcement,” said Aderholt. “While I look forward to seeing the specifics behind his ideas, I think most Alabamians would have like to have heard more from the President on the topics that really matter to families and small businesses and to have finally heard an offer to work across the aisle to get our economy back on sound footing by helping businesses create real jobs, instead of temporary jobs that rely on government subsides.”“The President spent his first term touting his ideas to boost the middle class, grow our economy and help businesses create jobs. However, our nation’s economy remains sluggish, small businesses are still facing great uncertainty, hindered by smothering federal government interference, and middle class paychecks continue to decline.”“The stagnant economy of the last four years has made it clear that higher taxes, trillion dollar deficits, spend-now pay-later ‘budgeting’ and more government spending are not the way to grow our nation’s economy. Nevertheless, the President seems committed to offering rehashed versions of the old idea that higher taxes will solve everything. His refusal to engage in honest compromise with the House is leading us to the painful cuts to our nation’s military known as sequestration. We can no longer afford grand speeches; we must see real cooperation that leads to real solutions.”“The Republican-led House remains committed to growing our economy, responsibly budgeting taxpayer dollars, creating an environment that allows businesses to create jobs and strengthening the middle class. With the 113th Congress we have an opportunity to come together—the House, the Senate and the White House—to solve our nation’s greatest economic challenges. "It is my sincerest hope that the President view his State of the Union address as more than just an opportunity to rehash his past big ideas. Congress and the American people are looking to the President to provide sound leadership and clear solutions.”For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
02.06.2013	Aderholt Supports the Require a PLAN ActLegislation would require the White House to show clear path to a balanced budgetWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) released the following statement in support of H.R. 444, the Require a PLAN Act, that passed today in the House:“This week, the White House once again missed the statutory deadline to submit their budget to Congress,” said Aderholt. “With trillion dollar deficits and our economy fighting to recover and grow jobs, submitting a fiscally responsible spending plan should be one of the President’s highest priorities.”“The bill that passed today would require the President to submit a budget to Congress that would balance within 10 years. Further, if the budget proposal does not balance, the President would be required to submit a supplemental budget that shows when his budget would balance. We must get our fiscal house in order and the economy moving again,” continued Aderholt.“House Republicans have done our job, we have passed sensible budget proposals that would get our economy moving again and spur job creation. I hope with the legislation passed today and the ‘No Budget, No Pay Act’ that passed in the House last month, our colleagues in the Senate and the White House will be willing to join the House in working to find real solutions to our nation’s great fiscal challenges,” concluded Aderholt.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
01.28.2013	Aderholt Condemns Conviction of American Pastor Abedini and Calls for his Immediate Release and Return to the United StatesWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today condemned Iran’s conviction of American Christian Pastor Saeed Abedini. Pastor Abedini was wrongfully accused and now has been convicted of undermining national security and sentenced to eight years in Iran’s notorious Evin prison.“Pastor Abedini’s arrest, trial and now conviction for his Christian and humanitarian efforts in Iran are completely unjust and are another sad example of Iran’s blatant disregard for religious freedom, the rule of law and its international commitments,” said Aderholt. “Pastor Abedini is an American citizen, who has done nothing but try to bring good to Iran, through his humanitarian efforts including founding an orphanage, and practicing the faith in which he believes. He should be released immediately and sent home to the United States to be with his wife and children.”On Sunday, January 27, Iran’s Judge Pir-Abassi sentenced Pastor Saeed Abedini to eight years in prison for ‘threatening the national security of Iran,’ because of his activities in the Christian house church movement, beginning in 2000.Earlier this month, Aderholt and 36 of his colleagues sent a letter to Secretary Hillary Clinton condemning the unlawful detainment of Pastor Abedini’s and calling on the State Department to do everything possible to bring him home. Click here to view the letter to Secretary Clinton. “We will continue to keep pressure on the State Department to make sure that this American Pastor receives the attention he deserves and seek his release,” concluded Aderholt.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
01.25.2013	Aderholt Hosts Open House at New District Office in The ShoalsNew district office will serve Colbert, Franklin, Lawrence and Marion CountiesWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today officially opened a new Muscle Shoals district office in Tuscumbia with an open house for community members. “I am excited to announce that my new Shoals district office will be located in Tuscumbia is now up and running,” said Aderholt. “With the changing boundaries of Alabama’s 4th Congressional District, we have relocated our Decatur office to the Shoals to better serve our redrawn district. Providing the best constituent services has always been a top priority and the new office in Tuscumbia will allow my staff and I to continue to best serve the region.”Congressman Aderholt’s Shoals district office in Tuscumbia primarily handles casework and community outreach in Colbert, Franklin, Lawrence and Marion Counties. Due to redistricting Congressman Aderholt’s new Shoals office will replace the Decatur district office. The office will be staffed by District Field Representative, Kreg Kennedy, who will be available to assist constituents who need help dealing with a federal department or agency. Kennedy, a native of Red Bay, Alabama in Franklin County has been with Congressman Aderholt since September of 2011 and previously served as Legislative Correspondent in the Washington, DC office.Muscle Shoals District Office1011 George Wallace Boulevard, Suite 146Tuscumbia, AL 35674Phone: 256.381.3450Fax: 256.381.7659Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and the Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
01.23.2013	Aderholt Supports the No Budget, No Pay ActWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) issued the follow statement on H.R. 325 the No Budget, No Pay Act that passed in the United States House of Representatives today.“While Alabama families and small businesses continue to tighten their belts to live within their means, our colleagues in the Senate have not passed a budget in nearly four years,” said Aderholt. “The failure to get our nation’s spending under control is doing direct harm to our economy and is hindering job creation. It is time Democratic leaders in the Senate join House Republicans in working to responsibly manage our country’s finances. The concept is simple: if we do not pass a budget Members of Congress do not get paid.”H.R 325 would provide a temporary suspension of the debt limit to allow the country to meet its current obligations and in turn would require both the House and Senate to pass a budget resolution by April 15, 2013. If either Chamber fails to pass a budget, Members or Senators pay will be withheld until a budget is adopted or until the end of the 113th Congress.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
01.18.2013	Aderholt Calls on State Department to ‘Leave No Stone Unturned’ to Bring American Christian Pastor Being Detained in Iran HomeWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), joined by 36 of his colleagues, wrote a letter to the United States Department of State on behalf of American Pastor Saeed Abedini, who has been wrongfully detained by Iranian officials and is set to face trial next week for his Christian activities.“Freedom of religion is one of the most fundamental rights any and every individual should have,” said Aderholt. “The wrongful detention of Christian Pastor Abedini, a United States citizen, because of his faith and humanitarian efforts, violates the most basic human rights and Iran’s international commitments. No one should be discriminated against or persecuted because of their faith. It is my sincerest hope that the State Department will do everything in their power to bring Pastor Abedini back home to his family. Additionally, I hope this letter sends a message of how important this issue is and that Members of Congress are willing to do whatever we need to do to help with this effort,” concluded Aderholt.Below is the full text of the letter.Dear Secretary Clinton,The purpose of this letter is to bring to your personal attention the plight of Saeed Abedini, a 32-year-old American citizen wrongfully detained in Iran, and to request your full engagement on his behalf.As you are well aware, Iran has a long and troubling track record on a variety of human rights issues. Of particular note is Iran’s regular and severe persecution of religious minorities -- especially Christians. In Iran, simply exercising the fundamental human right of religious freedom carries with it the threat of harsh and lengthy imprisonment, and in some cases even death. We acknowledge your commitment to stand against these atrocities, and we are resolved to assist you in that endeavor. We are also mindful that it is particularly incumbent on us to engage when this persecution is aimed at one of our own citizens.It is our understanding that Mr. Abedini converted from Islam to Christianity when he was a teenager. In the years following his conversion, Mr. Abedini established a number of house churches in Iran, where Christian converts gathered to worship. In 2005, Mr. Abedini and his American wife moved to the United States. However, during a 2009 visit with his family in Tehran, the intelligence police arrested him and claimed that his activities were undermining national security. During the course of intense interrogations, the police asserted that Mr. Abedini deserved to die because of his conversion. Ultimately, Mr. Abedini was released on bail under an agreement that the Regime would not try him in exchange for his commitment to cease work with the house churches. Mr. Abedini honored these terms, and shifted his focus in Iran to humanitarian endeavors, including the establishment of an orphanage in Rasht, Iran. Although Mr. Abedini was periodically interrogated about his activities in Iran over the next few years, the Regime initially honored its end of the agreement. However, on July 28, 2012, as Mr. Abedini was lawfully entering Iran from Turkey, the Revolutionary Guard stopped his bus and detained him. The Revolutionary Guard interrogated him, confiscated his passports, and ordered him to remain in Iran to face trial for his Christian activities. On September 26, 2012, the Revolutionary Guard raided Mr. Abedini’s parents’ home. During the raid, all religious materials were confiscated, the home ransacked, and Mr. Abedini taken into custody and confined at the infamously brutal Evin prison. While at Evin, Mr. Abedini has endured periods of solitary confinement, repeated physical assaults and intense interrogations, all while being denied access to legal counsel.Mr. Abedini’s charges and arbitrary detention violates numerous domestic laws and international obligations. As you know, Iran's own constitution (Articles 13, 14, and 23) guarantees his right to freely practice his religion. Iran’s actions also contradict its commitment as represented by being a signatory to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.We are both mindful of the fact that the United States does not have diplomatic relations with Iran and grateful for your faithful condemnation of Iran’s human rights record. However, we believe there is still a great deal of good that the State Department can and should do on behalf of Mr. Abedini, one of our own citizens. We respectfully request that you leave no stone unturned in your efforts to bring Mr. Abedini home to his family. We believe that strong and sustained advocacy from the State Department would do much to rally the voice of the world against this wrongful detainment. As such, we stand ready to join with you in demanding Mr. Abedini’s full, immediate, and unconditional exoneration and release.We are confident in your desire to ensure justice for each and every American citizen, and look forward to receiving notice of your planned actions.Respectfully,Robert B. AderholtClick here to view the full, signed letter to Secretary Clinton. Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Homeland Security Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
01.08.2013	ADERHOLT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876SEWELL: Rob NeSmith, 202.225.2665Aderholt and Sewell Congratulate BCS National Champions, Alabama’s Crimson TideWashington, D.C. — Today Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) and Congresswoman Terri Sewell (AL-07) offer their sincerest congratulations to the University of Alabama’s Crimson Tide on winning the BCS National Championship game. “While Democrats and Republicans do not often see eye to eye, there is one thing that we can agree upon and that is that the University of Alabama’s Crimson Tide is the number one team in college football,” said Aderholt.“I am delighted to join Congressman Aderholt in congratulating the Crimson Tide for their resounding victory over the Fighting Irish and becoming the first ever back-to-back National Champions of the Bowl Championship Series (BCS) era,” said Rep. Sewell.Alabama’s Crimson Tide defeated Notre Dame 42-14 last night at Miami’s Sun Life Stadium, becoming back-to-back BCS National Champions.###
01.03.2013	Aderholt Sworn In For 113th CongressWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today took the oath of office on the floor of the House of Representatives to represent the 4th Congressional District of Alabama for the 113th Session of Congress. Joining Congressman Aderholt as he was sworn in by Speaker of the House John Boehner, were his wife Caroline, his daughter Mary Elliot and his son Robert Hayes.“It is an honor and a privilege to have the opportunity to represent the people of Alabama’s 4th District in the 113th Congress,” said Aderholt. “While the occupants of the White House and members of the House and Senate may have changed since I was first elected, the values we have in Alabama have not. Now more than ever these values—including protecting the lives of the unborn, the right to religious freedom and the right of our children to have the same economic opportunities as previous generations—continue to be under assault. I remain committed to principles of smaller, more efficient government and we are looking forward to continuing our efforts to reduce wasteful federal spending, cutting needless bureaucratic red tape and addressing the drivers of our nation’s staggering debt.”Aderholt has been selected to serve as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture for the powerful Appropriations Committee. Previously he served as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security and as a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science and Agriculture Subcommittees.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
12.31.2012	Aderholt Named Chairman of Agriculture Subcommittee for the House Committee on Appropriations Washington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), today released the following statement after being named by Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers to serve as Chairman of the Agriculture Subcommittee."It is a privilege to have been selected to serve as Chairman of the Agriculture Subcommittee, " said Aderholt. "A number of challenges lay ahead for this Subcommittee in the coming year: from the lack of a long-term Farm Bill, to much needed FDA oversight, to the challenges the Commodities Future Trading Board faces with the uncertainty of newly implemented laws and regulations imposed by Administration, it is clear we should have a pretty busy year. Having brought critical oversight and an eight percent reduction to the Department of Homeland Security’s budget in the last few years, I am up to the challenge and am honored that Chairman Rogers has placed the confidence in me to bring common-sense reform and oversight to the Agriculture Subcommittee.”"Chairman Aderholt is an essential and hardworking member of our Committee, not shying away from holding federal agencies accountable for their spending and making smart decisions on the investment of precious tax dollars. I look forward to continuing working with him over the next two years," said Chairman Hal Rogers.Aderholt served as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security Aderholt for the House Appropriations Committee during the 112th Congress. Since assuming the gavel the focus of the last two years has been reducing the Department's overall budget, while fully funding front-line operations. This was done through rigorous oversight of failing programs like CFATS and creating efficiencies in headquarter operations in order to reposition funds to vital operations within the Coast Guard, Customs and Border Patrol and Immigration and Customs Enforcement.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
12.04.2012	Aderholt Applauds Passage of the American Energy Manufacturing Technical Corrections Act Common Sense, Bipartisan Legislation Offered by Congressman Aderholt Would Remove Bureaucratic Red Tape, Barriers to Innovation and Protects Jobs in Alabama Washington, D.C. — H.R. 6582, the American Energy Manufacturing Technical Corrections Act, introduced by Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), passed in the United States House of Representatives by 398-2. H.R. 6582 amends the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, providing important and necessary technical corrections to the law, ultimately increasing domestic competitiveness, supporting more efficient and innovative technologies, andpromoting job growth here at home.“Too often bureaucratic red tape and needless federal regulations keep America’s innovators and small businesses from creating jobs,” said Aderholt. “This legislation passed by the House today is a common sense solution to what never should have never been a problem to begin with, but unfortunately became another bureaucratic nightmare further stifling job creation.”“If we want to see economic growth in this country, it is critical that our nation’s policy and laws create a regulatory environment that fosters innovation and job creation. Due to an increase in overreaching, burdensome and unnecessary regulations over the past few years, too many small businesses have had to layoff employees, reduce production or even shut their doors. This is precisely what happened to HH Technologies, an innovative manufacturing company in Cullman County, Alabama. The federal government’s embrace of outdated technology prohibited a new and innovative solution to improved energy efficiency.”“Through House Republicans continued efforts to streamline and eliminate bureaucratic red-tape in Washington, like the legislation passed today, we can begin to jumpstart our nation’s economic growth and reinvigorate job creation. I thank my colleagues for supporting H.R. 6582 and look forward to seeing the bill become law,” concluded Aderholt.Back in June, the House passed H.R. 4850, the Enabling Energy Savings Innovation Act similar legislation also sponsored by Congressman Aderholt, amending the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 to allow for the inclusion of walk-in cooler and freezer technologies that are more energy efficient than systems that are currently required in the law’s narrow definition. In addition to including the previously passed provision, H.R. 6582 makes additional technical corrections to the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 that would reduce regulatory burdens by correcting clerical errors made and eliminating any problems caused by the errors. These corrections include updating the uniform efficiency descriptor for covered water heaters, clarifying language regarding regulatory treatment for small duct high velocity systems made by U.S. manufacturers, coordinating research and development of energy efficient technologies for the industry, and establishes a separate,less stringent standard for over the counter commercial refrigerators, that due to large glass windows are inherently less energy efficient than other commercial refrigeration products. For the full text of the legislation,please visit: https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/BILLS-112hr6582ih/pdf/BILLS-112hr6582ih.pdfAderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House AppropriationsCommittee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
10.10.2012	Aderholt Hosts Agriculture Forum with House Agriculture Committee Chairman Lucas and Alabama FarmersWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), today welcomed House Agriculture Committee Chairman Frank Lucas (OK-03) to Stone Bridge Farms in Cullman, Alabama for a lunch discussion about every-day agriculture issues in the state of Alabama and the future of the farm bill.“Agriculture is an integral part of Alabama’s history and has a vital impact on our state’s economy,” said Aderholt. “It is a pleasure to welcome Chairman Lucas to Alabama to meet with our state’s hard-working farmers and producers. Every day they face a variety of challenges in their operations and today’s event is a great opportunity for us to come together and discuss those issues with Chairman Lucas. Agriculture is and should continue to be a mainstay of Alabama’s economy and it is forums like this that help us to better understand and serve Alabama’s agriculture community back in Washington.”“I was pleased to visit Congressman Aderholt’s district and join him in an important discussion on agriculture issues. This was a great opportunity to meet members of the agriculture community, recognize the contributions our farmers make for this nation and around the world, and discuss the challenges our producers continue to face. We need more members like Congressman Aderholt who understand and appreciate agriculture because now more than ever it is important that we stand strongly together in support of production agriculture and rural economies,” said Rep. Frank Lucas, Chairman of the House Agriculture Committee.Alabama is home to more than 48,500 farms, which cover 9 million acres of land. Alabama agriculture exports total more than $800 million a year and include poultry, cattle, cotton, peanuts, sod and nursery products. Agriculture and agribusiness make up the largest industry in the state and employs twenty percent of all Alabamians.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
10.04.2012	Aderholt Announces the 2012 Fourth Congressional District Ag and Industry Tour Thirteenth Annual Event Showcases Agriculture and Business Sites in Colbert and Lawrence CountiesWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today announced the dates and locations for the thirteenth annual Fourth Congressional District Agriculture and Industry Tour. Taking place on Thursday, October 25th and Friday, October 26th the event will highlight agriculture and business sites in Colbert and Lawrence Counties in North Alabama.Among the sites Congressman Aderholt and tour participants will visit are: North American Lighting and Fame Recording Studio in Muscle Shoals; the Alabama Music Hall of Fame in Tuscumbia; Martin Farm and Servico Gin Courtland; and the General Joe Wheeler Home in Hillsboro.“Alabama’s industries, small businesses and agriculture are the engines that provide jobs in our communities and drive our economy,” said Aderholt. “The Ag and Industry Tour is an opportunity to highlight some of these businesses and learn more about their day-to-day operations and impact to our area. This enables me to better represent their interest and needs in Washington.”During last year’s tour Aderholt met with HH Technologies and learned about a needless federal regulation hindering the success of their innovative freezer product called Roll Seal. As a result, Aderholt sponsored and the House passed H.R. 4850, the Enabling Energy Savings Innovations Act, legislation that is a common sense solution to what should have never been a problem to being with.“From cotton to music, each of the businesses we will visit is an example of the vital economic impact being made in the Fourth Congressional District and our great state. In addition to being a wonderful learning experience, the tour also gives me the opportunity to meet and visit with constituents from across the district. I encourage anyone who has an interest in participating to call our district office for further details and I look forward to another engaging tour,” concluded Aderholt.The Fourth Congressional District Agriculture and Industry tour visited sites in Cullman and Walker Counties in 2011, Marshall and DeKalb counties in 2010, Walker county in 2009, and Marshall and DeKalb counties in 2008. Congressman Aderholt hosted the very first Ag and Industry tour in 2000 in Blount, Marshall and DeKalb counties.The Agriculture and Industry Tour is open to anyone who would like to attend, however space is limited. Anyone interested in attending should contact Jennifer Taylor in the Cullman District Office at (256) 734-6043. The registration fee for the two-day event, which includes transportation, dinner and lunch, is $120, or $60 for only one day. Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
09.20.2012	Aderholt Holds Hearing on Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards ProgramDemands Answers on Program’s Struggling Site Security Plan Process, Compliance Inspections and Development and Implementation of Personnel Surety Washington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement after Government Accountability Office (GAO) officials completed their testimony before the Subcommittee regarding the Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards (CFATS) Program after the original hearing held on July 26th was postponed due to Congressional votes.“Preventing hazardous chemicals from falling into the wrong hands is a critical component in protecting our homeland,” said Aderholt. “However, the Department’s primary program to address these threats, the Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards (CFATS) Program, has at best struggled. Late last year, an internal memo was leaked to the public and offered disturbing insights concerning the management of the CFATS program. With this information this Subcommittee called for a full GAO review and numerous oversight requirements.”“The internal memo detailed that the CFATS program not only lacked well-developed direction, but further identified significant unnecessary expenditures, hiring of inappropriate personnel and other gaps that pose a risk to the program’s vital mission.”“Since its inception over five years ago, Congress has appropriated nearly half a billion dollars to CFATS, however the Department has failed to fully develop an efficient and effective program. This Subcommittee cannot tolerate waste, fraud and abuse, especially when dealing with vital national security programs and at a time when our federal budget is hemorrhaging red ink,” continued Aderholt.“I have said time and time again, dollars spent do not necessary equal security realized. The Department must show evidence of what we’ve gained from the investments made in the CFATS program and put in a plan in place to make this broken program viable. The American people and the industry required to adhere to the program’s standards, deserve no less,” concluded Aderholt. Click here to view Chairman Aderholt’s September 20th opening remarks as prepared for delivery.Click here to view Chairman Aderholt’s original opening statement from the original July 26th hearing.Click here to view the Government Accountability Office’s full testimony.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
09.10.2012	Aderholt Visits the Arizona-Mexico Border, Meets with Border and Customs AgentsWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement after visiting the Arizona-Mexican border to meet with Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) and Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officials to see the implementation of current border security programs on the ground.“During August I traveled over 2,000 miles and had the opportunity to meet with countless Alabamians. High on their list of concerns are securing our nation’s borders and getting our country’s fiscal house in order. Most of all I heard from folks that they have hope our nation will get back on track. Protecting our borders is one of the core responsibilities of the federal government and over the past few years the Appropriations Homeland Security Subcommittee has worked to robustly support frontline personnel and operations and do it in a fiscally responsible way,” said Aderholt. “Seeing those operations first-hand is a critical component of my role as Chairman and it was an honor and a privilege to meet with the brave men and women serving at our border,” said Aderholt.“I have often said dollars spent do not necessarily equal security realized. Simply pumping money into a program does not guarantee its success and oversight of these critical, but costly border security initiatives is vital to ensure we yield the best results in our nation’s investment at the border. In visiting these facilities last week, I was able to see a variety of key border security initiatives at work and discuss the successes and struggles of current programs, technologies and missions with the folks on the ground in our nation’s day-to-day border security operations,” continued Aderholt.“Visits like this one are an immense opportunity for me as a steward of taxpayers limited resources, to not only provide oversight of those dollars already appropriated, but also help guide the Subcommittee in where we put resources going forward,” concluded Aderholt.Aderholt visited several Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) and Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) facilities along the Southwest border, including the Joint Field Command Headquarters in Tucson, Arizona; the Bear Valley Forward Operating Camp; Ft. Huachuca for CBP air operations; the DeConcini Port of Entry, Mariposa Port of Entry for cargo processing, and the Nogales Border Patrol Station in Nogales, Arizona; and the I-19 Checkpoint. Additionally, the Congressman received both aerial and ground tours of the border terrain in which CBP operates between the ports of entry.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###Congressmen Aderholt and CBP agents and officials approaching Bear Valley Forward Operating Camp along the Arizona-Mexican borderCongressmen Aderholt examines an unattended ground sensor camera with the Border Patrol Tech Team Congressman Aderholt with Joint Field Command Leadership at the Tucson Sector HeadquartersCongressman Aderholt talks with Patrol Agent in Charge of the Nogales Station, Chief Leslie Lawson
08.27.2012	Aderholt Statement on Tropical Storm IsaacWashington, D.C.— Today Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement regarding Tropical Storm Isaac."As Tropical Storm Isaac continues to develop and intensify, I know everyone is concerned of the storm's potential impact on the Gulf Coast and the entire region which includes my home state of Alabama. My staff and I are continuing to monitor Isaac's track, FEMA's preparations and current disaster relief funding levels. I will be in touch with Governor Bentley and members of the Alabama Congressional delegation as the storm's path becomes more certain and should emergency assistance become necessary. We are committed to working together to ensure that resources will be available without delay. In the meantime, I urge those in the path of the storm to take the storm seriously, stay informed and take the necessary precautions.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, which is responsible for funding FEMA. He is a member of the Committee's Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
08.17.2012	Aderholt Awarded Chamber of Commerce Spirit of Enterprise AwardIn recognition of his strong support of pro-growth jobs initiatives in the 112th CongressWashington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), along with Congressman Mo Brooks (AL-05), was awarded the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Spirit of Enterprise Award at the Shoals Chamber of Commerce Luncheon.“Small businesses are the backbone of our economy and the greatest engine of innovation, growth and job creation,” said Aderholt. “It is an honor to receive the Chamber’s Spirit of Enterprise Award this morning and to be in such great company with the business and community leaders of the Shoals Chamber of Commerce.”“This award is given based upon a voting record build on opposing higher taxes and reducing bureaucratic red tape so that small business can thrive and create jobs. I am proud to support initiatives that reduce barriers to innovation and growth and remain committed to supporting policies that help small businesses do what they do best, create American jobs.” concluded Aderholt.The Chamber’s prestigious Spirit of Enterprise Award is given out annually to members of Congress based on important business issues outlined in the Chamber publication How They Voted.The Chamber scored Congress on 16 House votes in 2011, including the repeal of the 1099 tax reporting requirements, the 3% withholding from contractors, and the President's healthcare law.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
08.01.2012	Aderholt Votes to Stop the Administration’s Proposed Tax HikeSupports the Job Protection and Recession Prevention ActWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) released the following statement in support of H.R. 8, the Job Protection and Recession Prevention Act. H.R. 8 would prevent the Administration’s proposed tax hike from taking effect January 1, 2013, but extending current income tax rates for one year. The measure passed today in the United States House of Representatives by 256-171.“This legislation will put a stop to the tax hike slated to hit every individual, family and small business who pays income taxes and provide job creators with the certainty they need to hire,” said Aderholt. “With over three years of high unemployment, this Administration and Senate leadership are still calling for higher taxes that will cost more than 700,000 American jobs. The bottom line is the federal government does not have a revenue problem, it has a spending problem.”“Raising taxes on hard working American families and small businesses is not the answer to recovery, job creation and growth. I am proud to support the Job Protection and Recession Prevention Act and I hope my colleagues in the Senate and the White House will abandon their pursuit to raise taxes on families and small businesses and finally join House Republicans in doing what is right for the future of our economy.” concluded Aderholt.Key Provisions of the LegislationPrevent a take hike from taking effect January 1, 2013;Continue marriage penalty relief;Maintain the $1,000 child credit;Maintain a 15% top rate on dividends and capital gains;Maintain the estate tax at its 2011 and 2012 parameters (indexed for inflation);Provide higher Sec. 179 small business expensing limits; andPreserve certain education-related benefits.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
07.26.2012	Aderholt Applauds Passage of the Red Tape Reduction and Small Business Job Creation ActLegislation would reduce unnecessary regulatory burdens hurting America’s small business job creators Washington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) released the following statement in support of H.R. 4078, the Red Tape Reduction and Small Business Job Creation Act. The measure passed today in the United States House of Representatives by 245-172.“Too often bureaucratic red tape and needless, costly federal regulations keep America’s innovators and small businesses from creating jobs,” said Aderholt. “While our nation’s small businesses have created 64 percent of all new jobs in the U.S. in the past 15 years, they face an annual regulatory burden that is 36 percent higher than larger firms.”“Under the current Administration, businesses have seen a surge in rules and regulations published in the Federal Register. These 41,662 pages of compliance requirements would cost $56.6 billion and result in paperwork that would take 114.1 million hours to complete. Further, the Dodd-Frank law has produced regulations with more than $7 billion in direct costs and regulations imposed in ObamaCare come with an estimated $17.1 billion in private-sector burdens. It is unfortunate that this Administration does not see the correlation between bureaucratic red tape put forth over the past few years and the stifled economic recovery and growth,” continued Aderholt.“In the 112th Congress the House has passed a number of common sense, red tape reducing measures including H.R. 4850, the Enabling Energy Savings Innovation Act that I introduced earlier this year. The bill will simply allow companies to manufacture and purchase innovative walk-in cooler and freezer technologies that are more energy efficient than systems that are currently allowed by outdated standards implemented in 2007. It is simply a common sense solution to what never should have never been a problem to begin with, but sadly became another bureaucratic nightmare.”“It should not take an act of Congress to get bureaucracy out of the way of our nation’s job creators, but I am committed to doing just that when Washington is blatantly standing in the way of jobs and economic growth,” concluded Aderholt.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
07.26.2012	Aderholt Calls Hearing on Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards ProgramDemands Answers on Program’s Struggling Site Security Plan Process, Compliance Inspections and Development and Implementation of Personnel Surety Washington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement after Government Accountability Office (GAO) officials began their testimony before the Subcommittee regarding the Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards (CFATS) Program.“Preventing hazardous chemicals from falling into the wrong hands is a critical component in protecting our homeland,” said Aderholt. “However, the Department’s primary program to address these threats, the Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards (CFATS) Program, has at best struggled. Late last year, an internal memo was leaked to the public and offered disturbing insights concerning the management of the CFATS program. With this information this Subcommittee called for a full GAO review and numerous oversight requirements.”“The internal memo detailed that the CFATS program not only lacked well-developed direction, but further identified significant unnecessary expenditures, hiring of inappropriate personnel and other gaps that pose a risk to the program’s vital mission.”“Since its inception over five years ago, Congress has appropriated nearly half a billion dollars to CFATS, however the Department has failed to fully develop an efficient and effective program. This Subcommittee cannot tolerate waste, fraud and abuse, especially when dealing with vital national security programs and at a time when our federal budget is hemorrhaging red ink,” continued Aderholt.“I have said time and time again, dollars spent do not necessary equal security realized. The Department must show evidence of what we’ve gained from the investments made in the CFATS program and put in a plan in place to make this broken program viable. The American people and the industry required to adhere to the program’s standards, deserve no less,” concluded Aderholt. Click here to view Chairman Aderholt’s entire opening statement as prepared for delivery.Click here to view the Government Accountability Office’s full testimony.Due to a last minute change in the congressional vote schedule the hearing was interrupted and will resume at a later date. Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
07.18.2012	Aderholt Supports Sequestration Transparency ActLegislation Requires Administration to Provide Detailed Plans for Sequester ImplementationWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) released the following statement in support of H.R. 5872, the Sequestration Transparency Act of 2012. This bipartisan legislation would require the Administration submit a report to Congress detailing how the Administration plans to implement the budget sequestration cuts required to take effect in January, should Senate leadership continue not to vote on the Sequester Replacement Reconciliation Act of 2012 that the House passed in April.“Ultimately I hope to see the sequester replaced with a series of focused spending reductions and reforms before January 2013 and the Sequestration Transparency Act is rendered unnecessary,” said Aderholt. “However, if Senate leadership continues to ignore the grave warnings regarding how sequestration could weaken our national security, it is critical the Administration submit a detailed plan on how and where these cuts will be implemented. American taxpayers, our nation’s military and businesses deserve to know the effects of sequestration, and seeing such effects might motivate the Senate and some House Members to make reasonable cuts to avoid the downgrading of our national security.”Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
07.11.2012	Aderholt Votes for Full Repeal of ObamaCare House Passes Legislation Repealing the President’s Job Crushing Health Care Law Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), today released the following statement in support of H.R.6079, the Repeal of Obama Care Act which passed in the United States House of Representatives by 244-185.“The Supreme Court’s recent decision to uphold ObamaCare was a dangerous step toward socialized medicine in our country and the law’s 21 tax hikes are not good news for economic recovery,” said Aderholt. “Most American families and small businesses still agree that the President’s health care law is taking our health care system and our nation’s economy down the wrong path. Simply put, with today’s debt America cannot afford ObamaCare. The 21 tax increases that are included in the President’s health care law will cost American taxpayers more than $675 billion over the next ten years and will only make it more difficult for small businesses and families to afford quality coverage.”“Today’s vote is another example of House Republicans trying to change this dangerous course. I voted, along with both my Democrat and Republican colleagues, for this repeal. I hope our colleagues in the Senate will follow suit, so we can work together to implement patient-centered reforms that protect Americans access to the care they need, from the doctors they choose, at a lower cost,” concluded Aderholt.In the 112th Congress the House of Representatives has taken over 30 floor votes to repeal, defund or dismantle ObamaCare. To date, three programs have been completely eliminated, including the onerous 1099 reporting requirement. Additionally, seven provisions have been signed into law either repealing or rescinding funds from ObamaCare. The House also previous passed H.R. 2, a full repeal of the President’s health care law (H.R. 2) with bipartisan support. However, the measure was never addressed in the Senate. For complete text of H.R. 6079 visit: https://www.rules.house.gov/Media/file/PDF_112_2/LegislativeText/BILLS-112-PIH-ocrpl.pdfAderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
07.11.2012	Aderholt Announces $28,284 Grant from the Department of Justice for the City of GadsdenWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today announced that the Department of Justice (DOJ) through the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program will award the City of Gadsden $28,284 for the purchase of law enforcement equipment. “This grant from the Department of Justice is great news for Gadsden and surrounding communities,” said Aderholt. “This law enforcement equipment that will be purchased with these grant funds will help emergency response personnel continue to support the safety and security of our area.”The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program (JAG) allows states and units of local government, including tribes, to support a broad range of activities to prevent and control crime based on their own state and local needs and conditions. Grant funds can be used for state and local initiatives, technical assistance, training, personnel, equipment, supplies, contractual support, and information systems for criminal justice.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
06.29.2012	Aderholt Announces $533,267 FEMA Grant for the Guntersville Police DepartmentWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today announced that the Federal Emergency Management Association (FEMA), Port Security Grant Program will award the Guntersville Police Department with a $533,267 grant for an integrated hazardous materials/technical response boat that will aid the Guntersville Police Department to patrol, detect, communicate and provide rapid response capability in and around the Guntersville Port area. “As Chairman of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee I am pleased to announce this Port Security Grant for the Guntersville Police Department,” said Aderholt. “The addition of the emergency response vessel this grant enables will not only provide the department with a state-of-the-art, Coast Guard approved technology, but the grant will also provide department staff with response scenario training and preparation.” The Port Security Grant Program is a competitive grant program which provides funding for transportation infrastructure security activities to implement Area Maritime Transportation Security Plans and facility security plans among port authorities, facility operators, and state and local government agencies required to provide port security services.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
06.28.2012	Aderholt Statement on House Contempt Vote for Attorney General Eric HolderWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), today released the following statement after the House of Representatives voted on a resolution recommending that the House of Representatives find Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt of Congress for refusing to comply with a subpoena from the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform for documents related to Operation Fast and Furious. The measure passed by a vote of 255-67.“Attorney General Holder and the Department of Justice were given multiple opportunities to comply with the law and provide the subpoenaed information to Congress—opportunities they opted not to take” said Aderholt. “The Attorney General left Congress little choice but to take this vote today.”“For nearly a year and a half Congress’ investigation has sought to find the truth and ensure accountability for what occurred in Operation Fast and Furious. Similar predecessor programs were determined to be too dangerous and were cancelled by the Bush Administration. However, under Attorney General Holder, Operation Fast and Furious was created and the Department of Justice lost track of approximately 2000 weapons, including assault weapons. For 10 months, the DOJ concealed the truth and refused to answer Congress' direct questions in an attempt to cover-up the Department's wrongdoing." "This contempt vote is not a Republican versus Democrat measure but instead Congress holding the Executive branch accountable and trying to find real answers. Indeed, this is not a partisan action but a constitutional obligation," concluded Aderholt.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
06.28.2012	Aderholt Statement on Supreme Court’s Decision on the President’s Health Care Law High Court Upholds the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), today released the following statement regarding the Supreme Court of the United States issued its decision regarding the President’s health care law.“Most Americans agree that the President’s health care law is taking America down the wrong path and government mandated health care is not what they want. Health care decisions that are made at the federal level only make it more difficult for small businesses and families to afford quality coverage. Putting health care decisions in the hands of unelected Washington bureaucrats and using taxpayer dollars to provide for abortions is simply bad policy. My concern is the Supreme Court’s decision to uphold the majority of the President’s health care law is a devastating step toward socialized medicine for our nation.”“House Republicans will continue to work to repeal the President’s flawed health care law, so that we enact common-sense, step-by-step reforms that protect Americans access to the care they need, from the doctors they choose, at a lower cost. I think you will see House Republicans act quickly once again to fully repeal the law and implement patient-centered reforms that ensure families and doctors make health care decisions.”Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###To read the Supreme Court's full decision visit: https://www.supremecourt.gov/opinions/11pdf/11-393c3a2.pdf
06.27.2012	Aderholt Offers Buy American Amendment to FY13 Interior and Environment Appropriations BillWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) offered an amendment to the FY13 Interior and Environment Appropriations bill during today’s full committee markup. The amendment would apply a “Buy American” preference to the State Revolving Loan Fund for water and wastewater infrastructure. The amendment was adopted by voice vote.“The common sense amendment I offered today would simply require that all water and wastewater infrastructure projects funded through the State Revolving Loan Fund be made with American produced iron and steel products,” said Aderholt. “I think most Americans agree that their taxpayer dollars should be supporting American products, American workers and American jobs, not our foreign competitors who refuse to open their markets to American goods.""To those that say Buy American is not 'free trade,' this amendment includes a provision for countries that have free trade agreement with the United States, their product will receive the same treatment as an American made one. American businesses can compete with anyone, anywhere in the world but not when foreign markets are closed to them."“Therefore, this amendment would act as an incentive for other countries to open their markets to American products, ultimately creating an opportunity for further economic growth, that means job creation here at home. I thank Chairman Simpson for accepting this common sense amendment and I am pleased that it will be included in the bill going forward.” concluded Aderholt.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
06.26.2012	Aderholt Applauds Passage of the Enabling Energy Savings Innovation ActCommon Sense Legislation Offered by Congressman Aderholt Would Remove Bureaucratic Red Tape and Barriers to InnovationWashington, D.C. — H.R. 4850, the Enabling Energy Saving Innovations Act, introduced by Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) in April, passed in the United States House of Representatives unanimously by voice vote today. H.R. 4850 amends the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 to allow for the inclusion of walk-in cooler and freezer technologies that are more energy efficient than systems that are currently required in the law’s narrow definition. “Too often bureaucratic red tape and needless federal regulations keep America’s innovators and small businesses from creating jobs,” said Aderholt. “The Enabling Energy Savings Innovation Act passed by the House today is a common sense solution to what never should have never been a problem to begin with, but sadly became another bureaucratic nightmare.”“I am glad to see that the House of Representatives is again paving the way for manufacturers to come up with innovative energy and cost-saving ideas that at the same time also save American jobs. House Republicans remain committed to creating a regulatory environment that fosters innovation, growth and job creation and H.R. 4850 is another step in the right direction. I thank my colleagues for joining me in supporting this initiative and hope that our colleagues in the Senate take action on this common sense measure,” concluded Aderholt. For the full text of the legislation, please visit: https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/BILLS-112hr4850ih/pdf/BILLS-112hr4850ih.pdfAderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
06.20.2012	Aderholt Supports Amendment Banning Taxpayer Funded Abortions Washington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), released the following statement in support of an amendment offered by Congressman Alan Nunnelee (MS-01) to the FY13 Financial Services and General Government Appropriations during today’s full Committee markup. The amendment expands an existing prohibition that restricts the Federal Employees Health Benefits program from proving coverage for abortions to include multi-state health insurance programs administered by the federal government under ObamaCare. The amendment was adopted on a vote of 28-20."The amendment offered by my friend Mr. Nunnelee from Mississippi today simply applies the current prohibition of taxpayer funding for abortions for federal employee health programs to all of the health insurance plans that the government administers, including those that may be created under the President's new health care law,” said Aderholt.“The bottom line is taxpayer dollars should not be used to fund abortions and I am pleased this amendment passed and will be included in the bill going forward. We cannot just rely on Executive Order's from the President that are inconsistent and can be rescinded at any time.”Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
06.07.2012	Aderholt Statement on Passage of Fiscal Year 2013 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations BillLegislation will continue and strengthen America’s homeland security efforts while trimming excess spendingWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the House Committee on Appropriations, today released the following statement after H.R. 5855, the Fiscal Year 2013 Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Appropriations bill, passed the U.S. House of Representatives by 234-182.“This bill addresses our Nation’s most two most urgent needs— security and fiscal discipline,” said Aderholt. “Over the past three fiscal years, this Subcommittee has cut over $3.4 billion in discretionary funding and has reduced the Department’s budget by 8 percent. The measure passed today provides $39.1 billion in discretionary funding for the Department and is a reduction of $484 million below the current fiscal year and $393 below the President’s request.”“H.R. 5855 fully supports frontline operations, including border and maritime security, immigration enforcement, investigations, targeted aviation security activities and disaster relief. The bill also includes key investments in the areas of cybersecurity, preparedness grants and research programs that promote much-needed job growth and innovation.”“Additionally, H.R. 5855 makes up for the $115 million shortfall again created by the Administration’s use of phony, unauthorized airline fees. The bill also includes robust oversight provisions, including intensified spending and reporting requirements and withholds funding until those requirements are met. Further, the bill holds the Administration’s feet to the fire when it comes to enforcing our Nation’s immigration laws. Their repeated attempts to water down enforcement will not be tolerated by this Subcommittee. The Department must both enforce and comply with the law.”“The passage of H.R. 5855 strengthens our Nation’s homeland security efforts and marks another important step in getting the federal government’s fiscal house in order. I hope my colleagues in the Senate will take swift action and I look forward to the bill’s final passage,” concluded Aderholt.For a list of amendments adopted by the House, please visit: https://appropriations.house.gov/UploadedFiles/06.07.12_Homeland_Security_Floor_Adopted_Amendments.pdf For the text of the bill, please visit:https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/BILLS-112hr5855rh/pdf/BILLS-112hr5855rh.pdfFor the bill report, please visit:https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CRPT-112hrpt492/pdf/CRPT-112hrpt492.pdf For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
06.06.2012	Aderholt Floor Statement: Department of Homeland Security Appropriations for Fiscal Year 2013(Remarks as Prepared)Mr. Chairman, it was 68 years ago today that more than 9,000 Allied soldiers were killed or wounded during the D-Day invasion in Normandy, France. That courageous operation, as well as the sacrifice of so many brave individuals, serves as a sobering reminder that freedom and security are not free.It is with this solemn commitment to both freedom and security that I respectfully present to the people’s House the fiscal year 2013 appropriations bill for the Department of Homeland Security.Similar to our Committee’s work over the past two fiscal years, this bill demonstrates how we can sufficiently fund vital security programs while also reducing discretionary spending overall.This bill does not represent a false choice between fiscal responsibility and security – both are national security priorities, and both are vigorously addressed in this bill by focusing upon four, key priorities: First, fiscal discipline – this bill reduces spending below the FY12 enacted level. Second, oversight – this bill continues and strengthens the Subcommittee’s long, bipartisan tradition of strict accountability. Third, support for frontline operations – this bill sustains and even increases operational programs, including border and maritime security, immigration enforcement, investigations, targeted aviation security activities, disaster relief, and cybersecurity. And fourth, preparedness and innovation – despite the bill’s overall reduction in spending, investments in preparedness grants and science and technology are substantially increased above FY12 levels.In sum, I believe this to be a very strong bill that incorporates considerable input from nearly 200 Members, including many of our authorizing colleagues, to meet our Nation’s pressing needs for both security and fiscal restraint. A few details on fiscal discipline and spending priorities—The bill before us today provides $39.1 billion dollars in base discretionary funding, nearly half of a billion dollars, or 1.2 %, below the FY12 enacted level and almost $400 million dollars, or 1.0 %, below the President’s request. There are no earmarks in this bill or the accompanying report.The bill cuts the Department’s bureaucratic overhead and headquarters functions by nearly 18 % below the request and 7 % below last year’s level. Also, the bill substantially reduces the administrative overhead of DHS component agencies, including a $61 million dollar reduction to TSA’s administrative functions and a reallocation of TSA’s resources to increases privatized screening and canine enforcement teams. In fact, TSA is cut overall by some $422 million dollars below last year’s level. Also, as I noted, the bill prioritizes funding for frontline personnel such as the Border Patrol, CBP officers, Coast Guard military personnel, and law enforcement agents; supports the largest immigration detention capacity in ICE’s history; sustains high-risk aviation security; fully funds the known requirement for disaster relief; supports long overdue initiatives in cybersecurity; and robustly supports intelligence, watchlisting, threat targeting systems, preparedness grants, and science and technology programs including the National Agro- and Bio- Defense Facility.In addition, this bill reforms the way the Coast Guard acquires its costly operational assets and responsibly funds much needed cutters and aviation assets – those essential tools that will keep our coastlines safe, and secure our maritime approaches against the plague of illegal drugs.This bill also provides funding where the Administration utterly failed. This bill makes up for the $115 million dollar shortfall handed to us by the Department through phony, unauthorized fee collections as well as the $110 million dollar shortfall resulting from OMB’s failure to properly access CBP’s fee collections. The Administration may be able to rely on these fee gimmicks in the President’s budget request, but we do not have that luxury.With respect to oversight—Our Subcommittee has a bipartisan tradition of insisting upon results for each and every taxpayer dollar that is appropriated. Therefore, the bill includes robust oversight by way of intensified spend plan requirements; reporting requirements; a full accounting of disaster relief costs; and operational requirements, to include Border Patrol staffing levels and ICE’s detention capacity.However, I must note that DHS did an unacceptably poor job at complying with statutory requirements enacted in FY12 – those failures are assertively addressed in the bill and report through sizable cuts and withholdings.Further, this bill holds the Administration’s feet to the fire when it comes to enforcing our Nation’s immigration laws. In response to the Administration’s repeated attempts to water down enforcement, the bill directs ICE to maintain 34,000 detention beds and continue funding 287(g) and worksite enforcement at the FY12 levels. It is the prerogative of Congress to set such priorities, and I stand by this direction in the bill. Our Subcommittee is serious about compelling the Department to both enforce the law and comply with the law. And, we will not tolerate further failures in this regard.Finally, on preparedness and innovation—The bill increases preparedness grants by nearly 17 % and Science and Technology programs by nearly 24 % above last year’s levels. Committee Members and our authorizers have provided considerable input on these programs, and I am committed to leveraging technology and well-justified investments to sustain our Nation’s preparedness, as well as spur innovation and foster an environment for job growth.In closing, let me first thank Ranking Member Price. He has been a Statesman and true partner to work with on this vital bill. I sincerely thank him and his dedicated professional staff for their input and notable contributions to this bill.In addition, let me recognize and thank the Members of the Appropriations Committee and many of our authorizing colleagues – their input was vital to our oversight work over the past few months as well as the production of this bill.Finally, I must thank the distinguished Chairman and Ranking Member of the Appropriations Committee, Chairman Rogers and Ranking Member Dicks. As much as we had to make difficult choices and trade-offs at the Subcommittee level, I know they had to make many more difficult decisions across all twelve of the Subcommittees.I sincerely believe this bill reflects our best effort to address our Nation’s most urgent needs – security and fiscal discipline. I urge my colleagues to support this measure and I reserve the balance of my time.###
05.16.2012	Appropriations Committee Approves Fiscal Year 2013 Homeland Security Appropriations BillLegislation will continue and strengthen America’s homeland security efforts while trimming excess spendingWashington, D.C.— The House Appropriations Committee today approved the fiscal year 2013 Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Appropriations bill. The legislation strengthens America’s homeland security efforts while at the same time reducing government spending. The bill provides $39.1 billion in discretionary funding for DHS, a decrease of $484 million below last year’s level and a decrease of $393 million below the President’s request.“The safety and protection of our citizens is of the utmost importance – and we must keep a sharp eye on how and why we are spending our tax dollars on national security. This bill shores up the most important programs, ensuring DHS has the resources it needs to do its job well, while reducing spending below last year’s level. At a time when we are facing both security threats, as well as the perils of mountains of debt, we can neither afford to overspend nor withstand the risks of an overburdened security system. This bill achieves that delicate balance,” House Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers said.This bill addresses our Nation’s most two most urgent needs— security and fiscal discipline. Over the past three fiscal years, this Subcommittee has cut over $3.4 billion in discretionary funding and has reduced the Department’s budget by 8 percent. While the bill the Committee reported out today is a reduction of $484 million below the current fiscal year and $394 below the President’s request, we were still able to make key investments for cybersecurity, preparedness grants and research programs that promote job growth and innovation," Homeland Security Subcommittee Chairman Robert Aderholt said."Further, the bill again focuses on fiscal discipline, hard-hitting oversight and support for our nation’s most vital security programs. It fully funds frontline and high-risk security operations, including targeted increases above the President’s request for every security program that is a direct countermeasure to recent terrorist attacks. The bill also challenges the Administration to include in all current and future grant guidance giving hiring preference to post 9/11veterans and to use over $700 million in unobligated SAFER grants to do so immediately. After risking their lives for our country, they deserve no less," continued Aderholt.The following amendments to the fiscal year 2013 Homeland Security Appropriations bill were approved by the full committee today:Rep. Aderholt – The amendment made technical and other non-controversial changes and additions to the bill and report. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote.Reps. Latham/Price/Dent/Lowey –The amendment waives restrictions on SAFER firefighter grants, allowing the retention of existing firefighter personnel. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote.Rep. Aderholt– The amendment prohibits federal funding for Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to provide for abortions, except in certain life-threatening cases, rape, and incest. The language is virtually identical to provisions already in existing law. The amendment was adopted on a vote of 28-21.Rep. Dent–The amendment prohibits funding to require private facilities to use certain personnel identification security measures if the facility already has sufficient security measures in place. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote.The FY 2013 Homeland Security Appropriations bill was approved by the full committee on a voice vote.For the text of the bill and report, please visit:https://appropriations.house.gov/UploadedFiles/BILLS-112HR-SC-AP-FY13-Homeland.pdf and https://appropriations.house.gov/UploadedFiles/HOMELAND-FY13-FULLCOMMITTEEREPORT.pdfFor a summary, please visit:https://appropriations.house.gov/News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=294369###
05.08.2012	Appropriations Committee Releases Fiscal Year 2013 Homeland Security Appropriations BillLegislation will continue to strengthen America’s homeland security efforts while trimming excess spendingWashington, D.C.— The House Appropriations Committee today released its proposed fiscal year 2013 Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Appropriations bill, to be considered in subcommittee tomorrow. The bill strengthens America’s homeland security efforts while at the same time reducing government spending. The bill provides $39.1 billion in discretionary funding for DHS, a decrease of $484 million below last year’s level and a decrease of $393 million below the President’s request.Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers made the following statement on the bill:“Our country faces the dual challenge of providing essential resources for the protection of the nation while also reducing federal spending to help ensure future economic and financial success. This bill helps to address both of these areas by providing the critical resources for our homeland security efforts, while also trimming excess spending to help reduce the nation’s deficits and debt,” Chairman Rogers said.“This year, DHS will observe its tenth anniversary. This bill aims to mark that milestone with bold measures to create a stronger, more effective Department,” Homeland Security Subcommittee Chairman Aderholt said. “Consistent with the Subcommittee’s work over the past two fiscal years, the bill demonstrates how we can sufficiently fund security while also reducing discretionary spending. The bill is focused upon fiscal discipline, hard-hitting oversight, and support for the most vital security programs. The reductions in spending are focused and precise, thus ensuring that there is full funding for frontline operations. There are appropriate increases for cybersecurity, preparedness grants, and research programs,” he continued.Bill Highlights:Critical Security Operations and Programs – The bill prioritizes funding for frontline security operations by continuing the highest levels in history for Border Patrol agents, CBP Officers, ICE agents, and ICE detention beds. The bill also provides funding for all operational, intelligence, threat-targeting activities, and the acquisition of essential tactical assets and equipment for CBP, Secret Service, and the Coast Guard.FEMA– The bill fully funds FEMA’s stated requirement for disaster relief. The legislation also recommends $2.8 billion – an increase of over $400 million compared to fiscal year 2012 – for FEMA First Responder Grants, including $1.8 billion for State and Local Grants. The committee continues reforms to consolidate grant programs into a streamlined fund allocated based on common-sense conditions, such as risk to communities. The bill provides $670 million – the amount requested – for Assistance to Firefighter Grants and $350 million for Emergency Management Performance Grants.Customs and Border Protection – The bill contains $10.2 billion for U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) – an increase of $77 million above the President’s request and $9.4 million above last year’s level, when adjusted for proposed transfers and realignments.This funding will provide for 21,370 Border Patrol agents and 21,186 CBP officers – the largest totals in history – and includes $117 million for Inspection and Detection Technology. In addition, the bill includes $518 million for Air and Marine operations and procurement to continue critical air patrol efforts on the U.S. border – funding that was cut in the President’s budget request.The bill provides $68 million for CBP’s National Targeting Center – an increase of $16 million over fiscal year 2012 – to enhance the identification of known and suspected terrorists and criminals. The bill also provides no less than $20 million for outreach to counter human trafficking, and $327 million for border security fencing, infrastructure, and technology.Immigration and Customs Enforcement – The bill provides $5.5 billion for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE)– an increase of $141.6 million above the President’s request and $76.8 million below last year’s level. The bill denies many of the steep cuts to ICE requested in the President’s budget to ensure that the agency can effectively enforce our nation’s immigration and customs laws.The bill includes over $1.7 billion for both domestic and international investigation programs, including $35 million for the Visa Security Program, $78 million for the Office of Intelligence, and an increase of $11 million to address human smuggling and trafficking. The bill also provides $138 million to complete the deployment of the Secure Communities program, and $2.7 billion for ICE detention bed spaces, providing for a total of 34,000 beds – the highest detention capacity in history.Transportation Security Administration (TSA)– The bill includes $5.1 billion for TSA – a decrease of $146.5 million below the President’s request (excluding proposed fee revenue) and $422 million below last year’s level. This includes funding for security enforcement, cargo inspections, and intelligence functions.The bill restores funding for Federal Flight Deck Officers, includes funding for the Federal Air Marshals program for coverage of all high-risk flights, provides a $5 million increase over the President’s request in funding for canine enforcement teams, and includes a $15 million increase for privatized screening operations. The bill also additionally, the bill encourages reform of passenger screening operations by capping full-time screening personnel at 46,000, and supporting TSA’s shift to more risk-based screening.The bill applies additional cuts to trim spending, both for efficiency and to offset the President’s proposed but unauthorized passenger fee revenue increase, including a $61 million cut to TSA managerial overhead.Cybersecurity– The bill includes a total of $748.9 million for cybersecurity, $20 million below the President’s request and $306 million above last year’s level. This increase provides funding for a new initiative to improve Federal Network Security that will help blunt cyber-attacks and foreign espionage.Coast Guard – The bill contains $10 billion for the U.S. Coast Guard – an increase of $211.7 million above the President’s request and $63 million below last year’s level. The bill sustains military pay and allowances, and reverses cuts in the President’s request that would have curtailed important Coast Guard operations. Targeted funding is also provided to help the Coast Guard meet its mission requirements, including: funding for the 6th National Security Cutter (NSC) vessel and long lead-time materials for the 7th NSC; funding for four Fast Response Cutter vessels; funding for two MH-60 helicopters; and funding for one missionized C-130J aircraft.Secret Service – The bill includes $1.6 billion for the U.S. Secret Service – an increase of $12 million above the President’s request and $53.8 million below last year’s level, reflecting normal reduction in operations following the Presidential election. The bill also continues funding for the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, which the President proposed to zero out.Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) – To strengthen the nation’s ability to detect and respond to potential WMD threats, the bill includes a total of $316.3 million for the Domestic Nuclear Detection Office, $26.3 million above last year’s level, to fund needed technology for Border Patrol and Coast Guard field operations.Research and Development – The bill includes $826 million for Science and Technology, $5.5 million below the President’s request and $158 million above last year’s level. This funding sustains investment in high-priority research and development efforts, including first responder needs, explosives detection, and cyber threats.Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards (CFATS)– The bill provides $45.4 million for CFATS, $29.1 million below the amount requested and $47.9 million below last year’s level. This reduction is due to significant managerial problems, program delays, and poor budget execution.Funding Restrictions– The bill continues a prohibition on funds to transfer or release detainees from Guantanamo Bay and includes numerous other funding restrictions to prevent waste and abuse. Some of these provisions include a restriction to prevent another “Fast and Furious” type program, and a limitation on spending for conferences and ceremonies.For the complete text of the FY 2013 Subcommittee Draft Homeland Security Appropriations bill, please visit: https://appropriations.house.gov/UploadedFiles/BILLS-112HR-SC-AP-FY13-Homeland.pdf###
05.04.2012	Aderholt Hosts 4th Congressional District Art CompetitionJasper, AL— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today welcomed more than 150 talented student artists to this year’s Fourth Congressional District art competition, which was held at Bankhead House and Heritage Center in Jasper.“Every year our judges have a tough time deciding which pieces of art should get top honors and this year was no different,” said Aderholt. “Each of the pieces here today exhibit the superb talent of the students in the 4th Congressional District. Whether they place in the competition or not, I am happy to see our students apply themselves to this endeavor. We have seen some truly impressive art today.”The ‘Best of Show’ winner’s artwork will be displayed for one year in the Capitol as part of an exhibit entitled “An Artistic Discovery.” The winner will also be invited to the national exhibit opening in Washington, DC, this summer, and received a trip to the opening reception and ribbon cutting ceremony.Awards were also presented in the categories of: paintings, drawings, collages, prints, mixed media, computer graphics and photography.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
05.03.2012	Aderholt Sponsors National Day of Prayer in Washington“One Nation Under God” Service Marks the 61st Anniversary of the Annual ObservanceWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today, along with fellow advisory committee members, hosted and gave the Congressional welcome at the 61st annual National Day of Prayer Service at the Cannon House Office Building, across from the U.S. Capitol. The National Day of Prayer is an annual observance held on the first Thursday of May, inviting people to pray for America. This year’s observance was themed “One Nation Under God.”“The strong faith of our founding fathers guided them as they led our country in its beginning and it is important that faith in God leads even today,” said Aderholt. “This nation is great because our founding fathers committed to prayer and the principles of their faith and it’s important for America to remember our heritage. Days of prayer have a long-standing and significant history in the United States and I am honored to be a part of that tradition again this year.”Speakers at this year’s service included Dr. David Jeremiah, Bishop Harry Jackson, Judge Reggie Walton, Representative Randy Forbes, Mrs. Vonette Bright, Rear Admiral Michael Parks, and Chaplain Colonel Thomas Waynick.The National Day of Prayer was officially created in 1952 by a joint resolution of the United States Congress, and signed into law by President Harry S. Truman. Every president since 1952 has signed a National Day of Prayer proclamation.Aderholt, a champion of traditional Alabama values, currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
04.27.2012	Aderholt Statement One Year After Devastating Tornadoes Struck AlabamaOffers Continuing Support of Local, State, and Federal Agency Coordination and Relief Work on the GroundWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the House Committee on Appropriations, today issued the following statement one-year after tornadoes devastated communities across Alabama and the Southeast:“As we remember one-year ago today, my thoughts and prayers are with all those that were affected by the devastating storms that ripped through our state and changed our lives forever,” said Aderholt. “However the damage, destruction and loss of life that was suffered on April 27, 2011, did not break us.”“In the wake of such devastation, we came together. The unprecedented storms brought unprecedented coordination between first responders and emergency teams, elected officials and government agencies, and countless relief and faith-based organizations. There were neighbors helping neighbors and oftentimes strangers helping strangers.”“With such wide-spread, expansive devastation last April, I believe it is important we look what weather conditions that caused this major storm system to hit the southeast in the manner that it did. I was able to include language in the Appropriations bill to research the weather conditions in the south that created these tornadoes one-year ago. My hope is this research will help us better prepare for severe weather and avoid another year of devastating storms like we experienced in 2011.”“While there is still work to be done, we’re on the road to recovery and we’re on it together. I’m encouraged by the relief efforts that continue on the ground, as well as the coordination between all officials involved in this recovery process. I know Alabamians faith, strength and resiliency will see us through and will come back, better than ever,” concluded Aderholt.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
04.26.2012	Aderholt Statement on Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations LegislationFunds critical NASA programs and methamphetamine cleanup effortsWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), issued the following statement on the approval of the FY13 Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations bill in full committee today. The Commerce, Justice and Science (CJS) Subcommittee funds several federal departments including the Department of Commerce (DOC), the Department of Justice (DOJ), NASA and other agencies.“The path to restoring fiscal discipline is not through a single step, in a single year but through a series of cuts in spending bills where our actions match our words,” said Aderholt. “The Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations legislation for FY13 contains $51.1 billion in funding, a $1.6 billion cut from FY12 and $731 million below the President’s budget request. This year’s CJS bill builds on $600 million in spending cuts achieved last year, while continuing to preserve funding for some of the most critical aspects of government.”“I am thankful the Committee heeded my request to continue funding the Methamphetamine Clean-Up Program. This year’s appropriation includes $12.5 million for the program, which is vital in helping to fight the devastating methamphetamine epidemic that has hit Alabama, especially in rural communities. The CJS bill also includes $1.85 billion in grant programs, including $370 million in funding for Byrne Justice Assistance Grants that provide critical assistance to local and state law enforcement agencies,” Aderholt continued.“The bill includes my request for funding for the SLS 130-ton rocket, at a level of $1.45 billion. These funds are set aside by bill language for rocket development only, including upper stage work. This will keep the United States on pace as the world leader in space exploration and technical development. I am also pleased Chairman Wolf included my request for more research on the weather conditions that create tornadoes in the south. My hope is this research will help us better prepare for severe weather and avoid another year of devastating storms like we experienced in 2011.”“I am however disappointed to see the Economic Development Administration (EDA) will receive $38 million less than the previous year. The EDA promotes need-based regional development assistance that is vital to America’s rural communities,” concluded Aderholt.To view the FY13 Commerce, Justice and Science legislation visithttps://appropriations.house.gov/UploadedFiles/BILLS-112HR-SC-AP-FY13-CommerceJusticeScience.pdfAderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
04.20.2012	Aderholt Congratulates Alabama Real World Design Challenge Winners From Fort Payne High SchoolSchool visits Washington, DC to represent Alabama in the national competitionWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), today released the following statement congratulating Fort Payne High School for winning the Real World Design Challenge (RWDC) and welcoming them to Washington, DC as they compete for the national RWDC title.“Congratulations to the Fort Payne High School Real World Design Challenge team,” said Aderholt. “It’s wonderful to see these bright young minds come together and rise to a real-world aerospace and engineering challenge. Their work in the Real World Design Challenge will provide them with invaluable experience as they continue their education and enter the workforce. I am proud to welcome them to Washington, DC and wish the team the best of luck as they represent our great state and compete in the national competition this weekend.”The Real World Design Challenge is anaerospace and engineering design competition that empowers high school students with real world experiences that are required for success in real jobs and careers in the 21st century. The Challenge began in 2008 but this is the first year that Alabama has participated.This year’s engineering challenge was to design within the provided engineering software an efficient, low-carbon-emission and environmentally friendly personal light sport aircraft. The aircraft had to accommodate two team members and fly 200 miles in less than two hours at a cruise altitude of 1000 feet above ground level (AGL) minimum.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House AppropriationsCommittee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
04.19.2012	Aderholt Supports Small Business Tax Cut ActLegislation reduces regulatory burdens for our nation’s small business job creatorsWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), today released the following statement in support of H.R. 9, the Small Business Tax Act.“Small businesses are the backbone of our economy, and the best way to boost economic growth and get people back to work is through small business growth,” said Aderholt. “In the past 17 years, businesses with fewer than 500 employees have generated 65 percent of new jobs in this country. Today however, bureaucratic red tape, lack of access to working capital and a complex and onerous tax code have placed enormous burdens on Alabama small businesses.”“Currently, cash-strapped small businesses face federal tax rates as high as 35 percent. The Small Business Tax Act will provide a 20 percent tax cut to small businesses with fewer than 500 employees. This vital legislation will help 22 million hard-working small businesses create much-needed jobs and get our nation’s economy back on track,” concluded Aderholt.The Small Business Tax Act would allow small businesses with fewer than 500 employees to deduct 20 percent of their income from taxes irrespective of how they are organized, up to 50 percent of their W-2 wages. The legislation passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 235-173 and now awaits action in the Senate.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
03.29.2012	Aderholt Statement on FY13 Budget House Budget Protects Seniors and Restores Promise of Economic Growth and Prosperity for Future GenerationsWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the follow statement after H. Con. Res 112, the House Republican fiscal year 2013 budget resolution, passed by 228 to 191 in the United States House of Representatives:“There is little doubt that our nation’s $15 trillion debt is this generation’s greatest domestic challenge,” said Aderholt. “Failure to address the staggering debt now is irresponsible and will ensure for the first time in our nation’s history our children and grandchildren will live in an America with less opportunity than this generation.”“Earlier this year, the President presented Congress a budget proposal that would increase spending by $1.5 trillion and projects adding $11 trillion to the debt, meanwhile the Senate still hasn’t passed a budget in over 1,000 days. The unserious approach of the Administration and Senate leadership to budgeting is simply unacceptable. Once again the House is leading the charge offering principled, practical solutions to our nation’s greatest challenge.” “Rising health care costs have put enormous strain on Medicare and are ultimately threatening to bankrupt the program and the country. Throughout budget discussions I have been greatly concerned our nation’s seniors will be affected by any reforms to Medicare and it is important to note that the budget passed today would not change the program for anyone 55 years of age or older. While I remained concerned about the overall impact of these proposed systemic changes, it is clear that we have to start the conversation and this bill is a first step.”Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
03.28.2012	Aderholt Welcomes Dr. Dennis Culbreth of Jasper as Guest Chaplain Washington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), proudly welcomed Reverend Dr. Dennis Culbreth, Senior Pastor of First Baptist Church in Jasper, Alabama as he delivered today’s opening prayer in the United States House of Representatives.“It is an honor and a privilege to have Dr. Culbreth with us in Washington, DC as guest chaplain,” said Aderholt. “Dr. Culbreth’s is a devoted and inspired leader that proudly serves his congregation and the Lord in all that he does. I am grateful for his beautiful blessing before the House today and his unwavering commitment to our community.”Dr. Dennis R. Culbreth, a native of Evergreen, Alabama serves as Senior Pastor of First Baptist Church in Jasper, Alabama. He graciously works to glorify God in all that he does and provides leadership and spiritual guidance to his 2,400 member congregation. He is married to Marybeth Frahler and they have three children, Andrew, Matthew and Grace. Click here to read Dr. Culbreth’s opening prayer.Click here to read Congressman Aderholt’s welcome. Click here to watch full video. Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
03.21.2012	Aderholt Questions DHS Officials on FY13 Facilities Budget RequestSeeks Answers on Reassessment for the National Bio and Agro Defense Facility and St. Elizabeths Headquarter ConsolidationWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement after Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Under Secretary for Management Directorate Rafael Borras and Under Secretary for Science and Technology Directorate Tara O’Toole testified before the Subcommittee regarding DHS’ facilities priorities and FY13 budget request.“Earlier this year Secretary Napolitano reiterated the sentiment of the National Academies of Science regarding ourcountry’s great need for the completion of the National Bio and Agro Defense Facility (NBAF) in Manhattan, Kansas to protect our nation’s food and livestock from biological threats,” said Aderholt. “While I understand in part why the Department is conducting another assessment of the project, I hope this assessment will not be used as an excuse to undo the conclusions already agreed to in the competitive award – namely, that we will have a level 4 facility in the United States and that it will be in Manhttan, Kansas, conclusions validated today by Under Secretary O’Toole. I find the Department’s decision to request no funds for FY13 disconcerting. It is incumbent upon the Department to request funds for this facility, as well as to release the constructions funds that have already been provided.”“The St. Elizabeths DHS Headquarters consolidation project began with a price tag of $3.5 billion and a 2016 enddate, however with unexpected delays and additional costs the project will cost American taxpayers at least $4.05 billion and the facility will not be completed until 2021 at the earliest. This Subcommittee understands fully that undertaking major capital investments, while also trying to get our fiscal house in order is a major challenge for the Department, but there needs to be clear direction for this project as well as alternatives for future DHS consolidation. We will be looking to Mr. Borras to provide some viable, cost-effective solutions that ensure DHS personnel can effectively carryout the mission of keeping our nation secure, should St. Elizabeths not be a near-term reality.”“In today’s tough economic environment it’s more critical than ever that the Department meet our nation’s homeland security priorities, while also having a clear plan for making responsible public investment decisions. Investments to headquarters and facilities cannot come before the Department’s core mission,” concluded Aderholt. Click here to view Chairman Aderholt’s entire opening statement as prepared for delivery.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House AppropriationsCommittee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission. For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
03.08.2012	Aderholt Questions Assistant Secretary Morton on FY13 Immigration and Customs Enforcement BudgetDemands Answers on Secure Communities, Detention Beds and Administration’s Failure to Enforce Nation’s Immigration LawsWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement after Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Assistant Secretary for Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) John Morton testified before the Subcommittee regarding ICE’s priorities and FY13 budget request.“Understanding Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s role is vital to our nation’s security and public safety, this Subcommittee has made immigration enforcement funding a clear priority,” said Aderholt. “The proof is in the dollars provided above and beyond past year’s requests, bolstering funding for frontline operations, detention bed space and the Secure Communities program to ensure ICE has the tools to enforce the laws of the land. Despite continued support from this Subcommittee, the Administration is disguising their clear political agenda to diminish immigration enforcement, by claiming ‘limited resources’ as an excuse to ignore the law.”“Despite heated discourse over immigration enforcement and reform policy, this Subcommittee has not been bogged down with politics. Instead we have focused on the resources needed to enforce the letter of the law and meet ICE’s vital missions. The problem is clearly not a lack of funding, but rather a lack of will in enforcing the law and utilizing the resources this Subcommittee has provided.”“Last year we provided funding for 34,000 detention beds, the highest level in history, but despite the expansion of Secure Communities into new jurisdictions as well as a large known illegal population, ICE has failed to fill those beds. Last year the Administration committed resources to the abuse of prosecutorial direction and interference in immigration proceedings. Last year this Subcommittee also provided funding for the expansion of the Secure Communities program, but despite plenty of dollars the program is being needlessly and politically delayed in my home state of Alabama.”“ICE has been giving the money to enforce the immigration laws of the land. Now it is time for ICE to do its job. Not enforcing the law puts lives in jeopardy and cannot be tolerated,” concluded Aderholt.Click here to view Chairman Aderholt’s entire opening statement as prepared for delivery.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
03.07.2012	Aderholt Questions FEMA Administrator Fugate on FY13 BudgetDemands Answers on Disaster Relief Funding and Grant ReformWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement after the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Administrator Craig Fugate testified before the Subcommittee regarding FEMA’s priorities and FY13 budget request.“Just this past weekend we were again reminded of the devastating impact natural disasters can have when storms ripped through the Country,” said Aderholt. “We thank the dedicated local, state and federal officials on the ground for their continued efforts and our thoughts and prayers are with those that have been affected by this devastation. These tragic events again bring to light an issue this Subcommittee has addressed time and time again—adequate planning and funding for disaster recovery. The FY13 budget request calls for $6.1 billion for the Disaster Relief Fund, $5.5 billion of which is slated for major disasters. With multiple, costly ongoing recovery project and the constant threat of additional natural disasters, it is imperative that FEMA efficiently execute disaster recovery efforts and do so in a fiscally responsible and cost effective manner.” “The FY13 budget proposal also includes a restructure to the grant program that builds on the reforms instituted by this Subcommittee last year. However, instead of building on existing authorities as we did last year, this budget request proposes the creation of an entirely new program called the National Preparedness Grant Program, but provides little detail on how this new program will be executed. In today’s tight budget environment, we simply cannot afford to create another program with no directives, no benchmarks and no accountability.”“Additionally the FY13 budget request includes $670 million for assistance to firefighters, $335 million of which is for SAFER grants. Earlier this year the President announced his intent to use SAFER grant funds to help hire post 9/11 veterans to be firefighters. However, this budget proposal also requests a waiver of the requirement that these funds be used for new firefighter hires. While I commend the President’s efforts to help our nation’s veterans enter the civilian workforce, I find this initiative and the FY13 budget request to be quite contradictory.”“In today’s tough budget environment vague directives and contradictory vision statements are of great concern to this Subcommittee. It is our job to ensure FEMA is successfully executing its core missions, while responsibly spending American taxpayer’s limited dollars to do so,” concluded Aderholt.Click here to view Chairman Aderholt’s entire opening statement as prepared for delivery.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
03.06.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 6, 2012 CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt Questions Admiral Papp on FY13 Coast Guard BudgetDemands Answers on Cuts to Active Duty Coast Guard Personnel, Reduced Cutter Patrol Hours and Acquisition ManagementWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement after Commandant of the United States Coast Guard (USCG) Admiral Robert J. Papp testified before the Subcommittee regarding USCG’s priorities and FY13 budget request.“Last week we were given a sobering reminder of the risks our frontline operators take each and every day, when a Coast Guard helicopter carrying four crewmembers unfortunately and tragically crashed off the coast of Alabama” said Aderholt. “Our thoughts and prayers are with the families and friends of the HH-65 crewmembers, the Coast Guard and the entire DHS family during this difficult time.”“Tragic events like these remind us the critical need to provide our frontline operators with the tools and resources they need to keep our nation secure. However, in today’s tough budget environment, we must do so in a fiscally responsible manner. While Admiral Papp has been vocal about the Coast Guard not having adequate resources to perform its 11 statutory missions, and while the Administration claims to support for frontline operations and building capacity towards stated mission requirements, this budget submission diminishes current, near-term, and future capabilities. “The FY13 budget request also calls for the reduction of 1,000 active duty positions and decommissions three 110-patrol boats and two high endurance cutters. Decreasing military-end strength, reducing cutter hours to an all time low, meanwhile delaying Offshore Patrol Cutter and failing to place the six Fast Response Cutters appropriated in FY12 is a dangerous combination and I fear could dramatically impact our nation’s safety and security. Once again this budget request does not provide a straightforward picture of its impact on critical missions and frontline operations.” “The bottom line is the Coast Guard must prioritize funding to frontline operators and leverage its new acquisition directorate to properly plan for and then adequately adjust fund key mission needs in a cost effective and timely manner—ensuring dollars spent, equals security realized.” concluded Aderholt.Click here to view Chairman Aderholt’s entire opening statement as prepared for delivery.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
03.01.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 1, 2012 CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt Traveling Help Desk to Visit Russellville and Double SpringsCongressional Staff On-Site to Assist Constituents with Federal CaseworkWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today announced that District Field Representative Daniel Tidwell will be in Russellville and Double Springs on Friday, March 9, 2012 to provide assistance to those needing help working with federal agencies. “With a district that stretches across the state, it can be difficult for people to travel to our district offices when they need help,” said Aderholt. “By bringing district staff to local communities, we can effectively assist those who otherwise would be unable to get support. This is an excellent opportunity for folks to come and discuss their issues with Daniel, who will help me begin the process of finding solutions for them.”March 9, 2012 Traveling Help Desk HoursRussellvilleDouble SpringsRussellville City HallDouble Springs City Hall 9:00 – 11:00a.m.1:00 – 3:00 p.m. Congressional offices can help with a variety of federal issues, including Social Security, Veteran’s Affairs and Medicare issues. For a full list of services Congressman Aderholt’s office can assist visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
02.29.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 29, 2012 CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt Questions Customs and Border Patrol Officials on FY13 BudgetDemands Answers on Border Security Technology, Air and Marine Assets and Cuts to Frontline Operations and Critical Mission Support Washington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement after Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) Officials Chief Michael Fisher, Assistant Commissioner Kevin McAleenan, Assistant Commissioner Michael Kostelnik and Assistant Commissioner Borkowski testified before the Subcommittee regarding CBP’s priorities and FY13 budget request.“Protecting our borders is one of the core responsibilities of the federal government and this subcommittee has worked to robustly support frontline personnel and operations,” said Aderholt. “However, the President’s FY13 budget request cuts resources from critical mission support that will take uniformed personnel off the frontline to perform administrative tasks. That is simply unacceptable and if CBP and the entire Department are unwilling to prioritize limited taxpayer dollars to securing our borders, this subcommittee will.”“The FY13 request cuts air and marine procurement by $72 million, -52%. Every year the Administration has cut air and marine, expecting Congress to bail them out. That’s not truth-in-budgeting or transparency and we simply cannot afford to gamble when it comes to border security. Additionally, with rising fuel prices, cuts to Coast Guard assets and aging aircrafts already flying reduced flight hours, this proposal could seriously jeopardize our Nation’s border security capabilities.”“While this subcommittee has asked all agencies in the Department to look for efficiencies and to adhere to strict fiscal discipline, we expect proposed efficiencies to be real and based on analysis – not prorated cuts to mission support, information technology support, and equipment that will likely impact front line operations. The bottom line is the FY13 CBP budget puts the investments this subcommittee and this Congress have made in border security over the years at great risk.”“This FY13 budget request does not provide a straightforward picture of its impact and while we expect CBP to be responsible in managing its resources, as we put your officers and agents in harm’s way—we must ensure that we are providing them the tools and capabilities they need to perform the mission—and I’m afraid this year’s budget misses the mark,” concluded Aderholt. Click here to view Chairman Aderholt’s entire opening statement as prepared for delivery.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
02.28.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 28, 2012 CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt Questions Assistant Secretary Pistole on FY13 Transportation Security Administration BudgetDemands Answers on Unauthorized Airline Passenger Fees, TSA Screening Processes and ProcurementWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement after Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Assistant Secretary for Transportation Security Administration (TSA) John Pistole testified before the Subcommittee regarding TSA’s priorities and FY13 budget request.“Today’s tough economic environment leaves little room for error and absolutely demands truth-in-budgeting,” said Aderholt. “However, TSA’s budget $7.64 billion budget request includes nearly $117 million in phantom offsets in the form of unauthorized airline passenger fees that stand no chance of passing either chamber of Congress this year, along with the assumption that these fees would generate $7.5 billion in new offsets over the next ten years. This smoke and mirror savings leaves TSA’s budget with a major shortfall, a shortfall that could potentially threaten national security. It’s time TSA, the Department and the Administration responsibly plan for real costs—not hypotheticals. We need a credible way to address this budget shortfall from the Department, or this subcommittee will be forced to find a solution—a solution that this Administration may not like.”“While I commend TSA’s new risk-based approach to security, with pilot programs like “Pre-Check,” I’m concerned that TSA can effectively measure the program’s success and, assuming it proves successful, quickly expand participation by the greater traveling public. I urge TSA to make every effort to find ways to expand this program and similar efforts so as to allow the agency to better use its limited resources, while ensuring the greatest security.” “TSA continues to struggle with its procurement and equipment maintenance processes, particularly with explosive detections systems (EDS) tasked with screening checked baggage. While recapitalizing the aging baggage screening equipment fleet is important, the $347 million FY13 request puts forth few dollars toward streamlining or modernizing the costly, complicated and cumbersome screening process that exists today. During these tough budgetary times, we simply cannot accept the costly status quo. I hope TSA reevaluates its procurement and technology strategy to ensure that dollars spent, equals security realized in both the near and long term.”“Ultimately TSA must find a way to balance persistent and evolving national security threats with the need for free flow of trade and people and it must be done in a fiscally responsibly way, no more smoke and mirror ‘savings,’” concluded Aderholt.Click here to view Chairman Aderholt’s entire opening statement as prepared for delivery.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
02.27.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 27, 2012 CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt Sponsors Resolution Condemning Iran and Calling for Pastor Youcef Nardarkhani’s Immediate ReleaseChristian Iranian Pastor to be Executed for Religious BeliefsWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), today joined colleagues in sponsoring H. Res. 556, a resolution in the United States House of Representatives condemning the Government of Iran for its continued persecution, imprisonment and sentencing of Pastor Youcef Nadarkhani on the charge of apostasy, because of his faith in Christ.“Religious freedom is one of the most important and fundamental rights a person in this world should have,” said Aderholt. “The continued persecution, imprisonment and sentencing of Iranian Christian Pastor, Youcef Nadarkhani because of his faith in Christ is atrocious and violates basic human rights and Iran’s international commitments. No Christian or person of faith should be persecuted, discriminated against or face death because of their faith.”“Last fall my colleagues and I sent a letter to Iranian Grand Ayatollah Khamenei on behalf of Pastor Nadarkhani expressing our support for his immediate release. I am disappointed there has been no action taken and recent reports have indicated the Iranian Government is increasingly likely to execute Pastor Nadarkhani in the near future. Due to this inaction and disconcerting turn in events, Congressman Joe Pitts (PA-16) has offered this resolution to express our deep concern for this and calls for Pastor Nadarkhani’s immediate release.”“I hope and pray that Iran’s leaders overturn this horrible conviction and immediately releases Pastor Nadarkhani so that he can be reunited with his wife and their two young boys. Religious intolerance cannot and should not be accepted and I will continue to support Pastor Nadarkhani and those like him who risk their lives every day for a freedom that so many of us take for granted—the freedom to practice of their faith.”Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
02.24.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 24, 2012 CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt Traveling Help Desk to Visit Ft. Payne and BoazCongressional Staff On-Site to Assist Constituents with Federal CaseworkWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today announced that District Field Representative Ethan Vice will be in Ft. Payne and Boaz on Friday, March 2, 2012 to provide assistance to those needing help working with federal agencies. “With a district that stretches across the state, it can be difficult for people to travel to our district offices when they need help,” said Aderholt. “By bringing district staff to local communities, we can effectively assist those who otherwise would be unable to get support. This is an excellent opportunity for folks to come and discuss their issues with Ethan, who will help me begin the process of finding solutions for them.” March 2, 2012 Traveling Help Desk HoursFt. PayneBoazFt. Payne City HallBoaz City Hall 10:00 – 12:00p.m.2:00 – 4:00 p.m. Congressional offices can help with a variety of federal issues, including Social Security, Veteran’s Affairs and Medicare issues. For a full list of services Congressman Aderholt’s office can assist visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
02.23.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 23, 2012 CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt Announces $30,000 ARC Grant for Wallace State Community CollegeWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today announced that the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) will award a $30,000 grant to Wallace State Community College to assist in the planning and design of the Appalachian Regional Center for Entrepreneurship and Renewable Energy Technologies. The new center will provide classrooms and training opportunities for members of the construction and energy industries and help open the door for business and skilled workers in Alabama to take advantage of jobs in the evolving renewable energy field.“This is great news that Wallace State Community College will receive grant funding from ARC for the Appalachian Regional Center for Entrepreneurship and Renewable Energy Technologies,” said Aderholt. “Having a well trained workforce is essential for Alabama to meet our state’s energy initiatives and related private sector industry growth. This new center at Wallace State will be a tremendous addition to their campus and to our community.” In addition to ARC funds, local sources will provide $20,000, bringing the total project funding to $50,000.The Appalachian Regional Commission is a United States federal-state partnership that works with the people of the Appalachia region to create opportunities for self-sustaining economic development and improved quality of life. The Commission is a partnership of 420 counties and cities and the governors of 13 Appalachia region states and a presidential appointee representing the federal government.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
02.17.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 17, 2012 CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876House Appropriations Homeland Security Subcommittee Postpones ICE FY13 Budget HearingWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on behalf of the Subcommittee postponing today's FY13 budget hearing with Assistant Secretary for Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) John Morton due to last night's unfortunate events that led to the loss and wounding of ICE Agents in ICE's Los Angeles office."We offer our sincerest condolences to the Department of Homeland Security and Immigration and Customs Enforcement on the tragic and unfortunate loss and wounding of ICE agents last night in Los Angeles," said Aderholt. "Due to these unfortunate events, we have postponed today's hearing with Assistant Secretary Morton until further notice. Our thoughts and prayers are with the department, ICE and the families and friends of these agents during this tough time."###
02.15.2012	CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt: We Must Act Now to Protect our Most Basic FreedomsJoins House and Senate Colleagues in Support of H.R. 1179, Legislation to Repeal the Controversial Health Care Law Mandate, Preserving Conscience Rights Washington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today joined a large group of House and Senate colleagues of both parties to call for swift action on the Respect for Rights of Conscience Act, a bill he introduced last March to protect the religious liberties and conscience rights of every American. The bill would put into place religious freedom and conscience protections that were effective prior to the 2010 health care law. It has gained considerable support since the Obama Administration’s late January rule forcing Americans to pay for drugs and procedures they may find objectionable. “We have come together to say it’s time to act to protect Americans’ most basic rights - our religious freedom and rights of conscience,” H.R. 1179 sponsor Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) said. “I am very pleased to stand with House and Senate colleagues of both parties to call for swift action on this bill.”“Religious freedom is a cornerstone of our great nation,” said Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-AL). “No individual or organization should be forced by the government to pay for services that they have a deep moral objection to. We have a duty as a Congress to protect the religious and conscience rights of all Americans and I am proud to join my colleagues in bipartisan support of the Respect for Rights of Conscience Act.”“The final rule that was filed last Friday did not make any changes to the HHS mandate,” said Congressman Dan Lipinski (D-IL). “We still need to pass the Respect for Rights of Conscience Act in order to protect the conscience rights of all Americans.”“The Obama administration believes its political goals trump religious liberty,” said Congressman Jim Jordan (R-OH), Chairman of the Republican Study Committee. “Mr. Fortenberry’s bill underscores what Americans know- the First Amendment’s protection of religious freedom should not be compromised. I applaud his work.”“Plain and simple, President Obama’s decision is an assault to the First Amendment,” said Congressman Bob Latta (R-OH). “It is an accounting gimmick that ignores the conscience rights of Americans. The Obama administration has gone against 30 years of federal conscience protections with this rule. I am extremely disappointed that this regulation departs from that tradition and the religious liberty that is enshrined in the First Amendment to the Constitution.”“We have seen time and time again this Administration’s willingness to insert the federal government into a situation where it does not have a role,” Congressman Tim Scott (R-SC) said. “Through their ‘pass it and see what’s in it’ approach to health care reform, we now see they have encroached on every American’s First Amendment right to the freedom of religion. I was proud to cosponsor Congressman Fortenberry’s legislation to prevent this from happening, and thank Jeff for his early leadership on this issue.”“Religious freedom is a cornerstone of our great nation,” said Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-AL). “No individual or organization should be forced by the government to pay for services that they have a deep moral objection to. We have a duty as a Congress to protect the religious and conscience rights of all Americans and I am proud to join my colleagues in bipartisan support of the Respect for Rights of Conscience Act.”The Respect for Rights of Conscience Act was introduced in March 2011 by Congressman Jeff Fortenberry. This measure would repeal the controversial mandate, amending the 2010 health care law to preserve conscience rights for religious institutions, health care providers, and small businesses who pay for health care coverage.Currently, the bill has 190 cosponsors in the House. In the Senate, Senator Roy Blunt is advancing this same legislation, with nearly 40 cosponsors.H.R. 1179 enjoys the endorsements of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, National Right to Life Committee, Americans United for Life, and other organizations. Numerous other organizations, including the Christian Medical Association and Family Research Council, have urged support of the bill.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
02.15.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 15, 2012 CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt Questions Secretary Napolitano on FY13 DHS BudgetOffers Funding Solution for Veterans Hiring Initiative, Demands Answers on Inadequate Funding for Frontline Operations and Airline Passenger Fee Budget Gimmicks Washington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement after Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Janet Napolitano testified before the Subcommittee regarding the Department’s FY13 budget request.“Rather than making the tough choices and ensuring that actual dollars spent equals security realized, this budget increases bureaucratic spending at the Department’s headquarters at the expense of frontline operations and personnel,” said Aderholt. “Rather than presenting an honest, authentic budget, this budget is again riddled with gimmicks and false ‘savings’ in the form of nearly $1.3 billion in airline passenger taxes and fees that stand no chance of passing either body of Congress.”Noting that in recent weeks the President announced his intent to use SAFER grant funds to help hire veterans. “Today I presented Secretary Napolitano with a solution to get this initiative going right away,” continued Aderholt. “As FY11 and FY12 SAFER grant funds have yet to be awarded by DHS and Congressional direction suggests those funds go to support new hires and new jobs, there is $744 million in unobligated funds available at the Secretary’s disposal that help get veterans back to work and would not cost American taxpayers a single, new cent.” “I greatly appreciate Secretary Napolitano’s testimony before the subcommittee today, however I sincerely hope that the Department will put aside the gimmicks of phony offsets and political fanfare so we can work together to responsibly fund our nation’s vital homeland security priorities.” concluded Aderholt.Click here to view Chairman Aderholt’s entire opening statement as prepared for delivery.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
02.13.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 13, 2012 CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt Statement on President’s FY13 Budget RequestWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement regarding the President’s FY 2013 budget request.“In the President’s State of the Union address he again promised to make the tough choices necessary and prioritize spending as mandated by the Budget Control Act,” said Aderholt. “However, upon preliminary review of his FY13 budget request I have great concerns this year’s budget looks all too familiar. Once again, the President’s request grossly under funds vital security priorities like maritime and border security and is riddled with the same budget gimmicks as last year, including $317 million in increased airline ticket taxes that stand no chance of passing in either Chamber.”Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
02.10.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 10, 2012 CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt Traveling Help Desk to Visit Vernon and FayetteCongressional Staff On-Site to Assist Constituents with Federal CaseworkWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today announced that District Field Director Paul Housel will be in Vernon and Fayette on Friday, February 17, 2012 to provide assistance to those needing help working with federal agencies. “With a district that stretches across the state, it can be difficult for people to travel to our district offices when they need help,” said Aderholt. “By bringing district staff to local communities, we can effectively assist those who otherwise would be unable to get support. This is an excellent opportunity for folks to come and discuss their issues with Paul, who will help me begin the process of finding solutions for them.”February 17, 2012 Traveling Help Desk HoursVernonFayetteVernon City HallFayette City Hall 10:00 – 12:00p.m.1:00 – 3:00 p.m. Congressional offices can help with a variety of federal issues, including Social Security, Veteran’s Affairs and Medicare issues. For a full list of services Congressman Aderholt’s office can assist visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
02.08.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 8, 2012 CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt Urges Supreme Court to Reject ObamaCare’s Individual MandateJoins the American Center for Law and Justice, Members of Congress and Nearly 145,000 Americans in Amicus Brief Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), released the following statement regarding the filing of an amicus brief by the American Center for Law and Justice (ACLJ) on behalf of 119 members of Congress and nearly 145,000 Americans urging the high court to uphold the decision of a lower court which ruled the individual mandate in ObamaCare is unconstitutional.“I appreciate the work of the American Center for Law and Justice in defending the Constitution of our great nation,” said Aderholt. “The individual mandate that is included in ObamaCare is a clear violation of the Constitution of the United States and seizes the rights given to individual states. I hope the Supreme Court will take action against this great injustice, side with the Constitution and the laws of the land, by upholding the decision of the 11th Circuit court and reject the individual mandate.”In an amicus brief filed with the high court yesterday, the ACLJ argues the Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit was correct in declaring the individual mandate in the Affordable Care Act (ACA) unconstitutional.The brief contends: "The individual mandate exceeds the outermost bounds of Congress’s Article I authority and is inconsistent with the constitutional system of dual sovereignty that divides power between the federal and State governments. The individual mandate’s unprecedented requirement to buy a product from a private company is inconsistent with our constitutional tradition. Although the ACA is the first federal law relying on the Commerce Clause to cross the line between encouraging increased market activity and mandating individual purchases, it will certainly not be the last if the individual mandate is upheld."Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
01.31.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 31, 2012 CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Alabama Delegation Seeks Disaster Declaration for Tornado and Storm DamageWashington, D.C. —Members of Alabama’s congressional delegation are supporting Governor Robert Bentley’s request for a federal disaster declaration in the wake of the last week’s tornadoes and storms.The entire delegation today sent a letter to President Obama seeking an expedited disaster declaration under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act to permit the use of federal resources for response efforts.“The Alabama Emergency Management Agency has provided us with the details of the extensive property damage, numerous injuries, and deaths. The Governor has also communicated to us that the severity and magnitude is beyond the capabilities of the State and affected local governments. As you know, Alabama was struck by a series of tornadoes that were among the worst in the state’s history in April and these most recent storms have only caused further strain on state and local resources,” the letter stated.A copy of the letter is attached.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
01.24.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 24, 2012 CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876 Aderholt Hopeful President’s State of the Union Speech Will Offer Real SolutionsNo More Failed Promises, Quick Fixes, or Partisan RhetoricWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), today released the following statement regarding his hopes for President Barack Obama’s address to the nation this evening:“Reports have indicated the President will discuss some key issues affecting our nation, including immigration, manufacturing, jobs and energy in his speech this evening. I look forward to hearing his ideas on these important matters and I hope that his remarks are more than just rhetoric and empty promises. The American people are looking to the President for leadership and to provide clear solutions to our nation’s challenges,” said Aderholt.“While the President has been calling for more American jobs, I think it should be noted that there are over 25 House-passed pieces of pro-growth legislation awaiting action in the Senate. In recent weeks, President Obama also rejected the Keystone XL pipeline project—an initiative that is supported by Democrats and Republicans alike—that would create jobs and reduce our nation’s dependence on foreign sources of energy.”“The President has promised to reduce the federal deficit and bring openness and transparency to the budgeting process. Yet at the same time, the U.S. credit rating was recently downgraded to AA+ and the national debt stands at more than $15 trillion. Just yesterday, the Administration announced its budget would be released a week late, for undisclosed reasons. While the House has returned the appropriations process to regular order and proposed thoughtful cuts and meaningful, hard-hitting oversight to the federal budget, as of today the Democrat-led Senate has not passed a budget in 1,000 days.”“In the President’s past two annual addresses, he has called for meaningful immigration reform. However, his departments are stalling fully-funded immigration programs like Secure Communities and undermining the laws of the land, by potentially granting backdoor amnesty to illegal immigrants through the creation of a new Department of Homeland Security working group.”“I think the American people have high hopes the President will present real solutions to our nation’s spending-driven debt crisis and offer a plan to provide job creators the certainty they need, so our economy can grow. Furthermore, we hope tonight the President will offer bold ideas to strengthen and preserve programs like Medicare for today and tomorrow’s seniors. And we hope he will encourage the Senate to do the job Americans sent them to Washington to do—pass a budget and vote on the jobs bills waiting at their door. The time is now. Americans deserve strong, sound leadership, not more empty promises,” concluded Aderholt.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
01.23.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 23, 2012 CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt Supports 39th Annual March for LifeWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement in support of thousands of pro-life Americans that gathered for the annual March for Life rally in Washington, DC.“Protection of unborn life is a universal issue that has become one of the most unifying causes over the past several decades,” said Aderholt. “The founding fathers strongly believed that human beings are created equal and are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights, among which is the right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. Therefore, the right to life of each human being should be preserved and protected by every human in our great nation.”Sunday, January 22nd marked the 39th anniversary of Roe v. Wade, the US Supreme Court decision that established a woman's right to terminate a pregnancy. The March for Life began in 1974 as a protest of that Roe v. Wade court decision and the yearly “march” has grown from 20,000 passionate pro-lifers in 1974 to hundreds of thousands today.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
01.17.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 17, 2012 CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt Calls on Administration to Fulfill Commitment to Immigration EnforcementIndefinite Delay to ICE Secure Communities Program Deployment, Threatens Safety of Alabama Communities Washington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), today sent the following letter to Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano after the Administration indefinitely delayed the deployment of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s (ICE) Secure Communities Program to the state of Alabama.January 17, 2011The Honorable Janet NapolitanoDepartment of Homeland SecurityWashington, DC 20528Dear Secretary Napolitano:I am writing today to insist the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) fulfill its stated enforcement priority by immediately deploying the Secure Communities Program to Alabama. U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) planned to complete Secure Communities in Alabama by December 30, 2011, consistent with DHS’s stated intention of full, Nation-wide rollout by the end of 2012. At the Department’s direction, deployment in Alabama was indefinitely delayed.The Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security has consistently and staunchly supported the Secure Communities Program in a bipartisan fashion and the program has had wide support from Members of both the House and Senate. In fact, the recently enacted Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2012 states: “Secure Communities is an effective and significant law enforcement tool; its deployment and use should not be hampered by any jurisdiction or official.” In your own words, Secure Communities “has proven to be the single best tool at focusing our immigration enforcement resources on criminals and egregious immigration law violators. Termination of this program would do nothing to decrease the amount of enforcement. It would only weaken public safety...”The decision to delay deployment in Alabama, a state that enacted its own immigration enforcement law due to concerns about the Federal government’s failure to enforce the law, is incomprehensible and gives additional evidence to those very concerns. According to the explanation provided by DHS to my staff, the decision to delay deployment was not taken for legal, programmatic, or operational reasons. Rather, the decision appears motivated by political considerations related to the Administration’s pursuit of a lawsuit to enjoin all aspects of H.B. 56 – despite a district court judge’s clear ruling that only certain provisions of the law should be enjoined. The DHS explanation states: “Although the federal courts have enjoined several parts of H.B. 56, certain provisions were not enjoined and are currently in effect…While these provisions of Alabama’s state immigration enforcement law, which conflict with ICE’s immigration enforcement policies and programs, remain the subject of litigation, ICE does not believe it is appropriate to expand deployment of Secure Communities…in Alabama.” I support strong immigration enforcement and giving ICE the tools it needs to execute its vital mission, including deployment of Secure Communities, a program for which you have also strongly advocated. The decision to delay deployment in Alabama while the program remains fully active and deployed in other states with pending litigation demonstrates why it is unnecessary to suspend the fulfillment of enforcement priorities that are not subject to such litigation. Madam Secretary, I urge DHS to uphold its stated commitments, fulfill its enforcement obligations, and fully complying with the Secure Communities deployment schedule in Alabama and all across the Nation. Given the importance of immigration enforcement to our homeland security and public safety, I see no valid reason for further delay.Sincerely,Robert AderholtChairman, Subcommittee on Homeland SecurityAderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
12.29.2011	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 29, 2011 CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, anne_marie.malecha@mail.house.gov or 202.841.0796Aderholt Applauds Administration’s Decision to Protect North Alabama Jobs Changes to GSP Trade Provision Ensure Manufacturing Jobs Can Remain in the U.S. Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), today released the following statement after the Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) announced a common-sense policy fix to the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP):“The changes to GSP announced today, bring great news for jobs in the state of Alabama,” said Aderholt. “American sleeping bag manufacturers like Exxel Outdoors, who have struggled with the uncertainty of whether they can continue to afford to do business within the United States, no longer face that fear.”“For months Americans have been looking to Washington to allow businesses to retain and create jobs through deregulation and balanced trade agreements that level the playing field for American businesses to compete. Fixing GSP is a great way to start.""GSP is not just some abstract trade law that affects companies overseas, but an important trade policy that affects jobs right here in North Alabama and allows for companies like Exxel to return good paying jobs back to the United States.”“In today's global economy, trade is important to economic growth and success. However, a loophole in GSP has been hurting American sleeping bag manufactures, until today. GSP was designed to be a mutually beneficial trade program between the US and friendly developing nations, and was specifically intended to not harm U.S. domestic manufacturing.” "This fix announced today will restore that original intent. I am proud that companies like Exxel Outdoors, that have fought to bring overseas jobs back to the United States are finally being celebrated and rewarded for putting Americans back to work.""Teaming with Jeff Sessions in the Senate, today's announcement brings a policy fix that we have been pursuing for over two years and am glad to see it finally come to fruition and enable sleeping bag manufacturing jobs to stay in North Alabama,” concluded Aderholt.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
12.21.2011	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 21, 2011 CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt Introduces Rural Postal Service Preservation ActLegislation Would Ensure the United States Postal Service Continues Delivery Service to Rural RegionsWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), today released the following statement after introducing H.R. 3744, the Rural Service Preservation Act in the United States House of Representatives:“As the United States Postal Service’s financial picture continues to grow dim and options of reform are being discussed, I along with so many across the nation are increasingly concerned about the prospect of the postal service ending delivery to rural regions,” said Aderholt.“As the postal service looks for reform and cost-cutting solutions, I believe rural Americans should not be singled out for postal cuts. To make sure that does not happen, I’ve introduced legislation that would ensure rural delivery continues and directs the postal service not to target rural postal employees for buy-out retirements.”“This legislation is vital to the many rural communities of North Alabama and elsewhere across the country. I hope that my colleagues join me in recognizing the importance of this issue to America’s rural regions and support H.R. 3744,” concluded Aderholt.Details of H.R. 3744Ensures that the current level of postal delivery service continue for five years from enactment.Requires any buy-out used to cut workforce of postal employees be apportioned 10% rural 90% urban.Requires that any postal office closures also be made in the same 10% rural, 90% urban differential.Defines rural areas with reference to the most recent decennial census and definitions of “rural” from the 2002 and 2008 Farm bills.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
12.16.2011	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 16, 2011 CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt Supports Fiscal Year 2012 Conference ReportReport Includes Responsible Spending Levels, Calls for Hard Hitting Oversight and Provides Vital Disaster ReliefWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the House Committee on Appropriations, today released the following statement in support of the fiscal year (FY) 2012 Conference Report:“This Appropriations report was forged out of a very open and transparent debate,” said Aderholt. “I am proud to have worked with my colleagues to forge a bipartisan, bicameral agreement that reduces discretionary spending by nearly $94 billion since fiscal year 2010, prevents a potential government shutdown, supports critical domestic programs, reins in government overreach, and puts our nation on a fiscally responsible path, creating a better environment for economic growth and private sector job creation.”“Homeland security and fiscal discipline are both clear national priorities. As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security, I am pleased to say this report includes critical funding for the Department of Homeland Security, while recognizing that more government and more spending does not necessarily equal more security. It cuts discretionary funding for the Department by $2 billion since fiscal year 2011, prioritizes taxpayers’ limited dollars toward vital security programs, includes meaningful, hard-hitting oversight and provides $8.1 billion for disaster relief across the nation.”“Within this Appropriations report funding priority is given to frontline operations, including supporting the highest-ever staffing levels for Border Patrol agents, CBP officers and ICE agents. It also funds and provides statutory direction to ICE to maintain a daily detention bed capacity of 34,000 beds, the highest ever in history, to strengthen immigration enforcement and increase removals.”“This agreement includes a total of $8.1 billion for disaster recovery efforts and fully funds FEMA’s disaster relief requirements for FY12. This will ensure devastated areas like Joplin, Missouri, numerous flooded communities along the Mississippi River and East Coast, and tornado-ravaged towns in my home state of Alabama will get the full assistance they need to rebuild and get back on their feet,” concluded Aderholt.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
12.13.2011	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 13, 2011 CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt Statement on the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation ActLegislation Cuts Spending, Protects Social Security, Improves Medicare Payments for Doctors, Reforms Unemployment Insurance and Includes Key Job Creation Initiatives Washington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), today released the following statement in support of H.R. 3060, the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2011:“Over the past year House Republicans have passed more than 25 measures to help America’s job creators, however at nearly every turn Democrat leadership in the Senate has blocked these efforts to reverse burdensome regulations and create an environment for sustainable private-sector job growth,” said Aderholt.“This nonsense has gone on long enough. It is time that Congress protect American workers and job creators from further tax increase, job killing regulations and put an end to wasteful Washington spending. The Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act, does just that. This legislation protects all workers from facing a tax increase in January and does so without borrowing from the Social Security trust fund. Our nation’s seniors and future generations should not be left to foot the bill of the Obama Administration’s failed economic policies.”“This legislation further protects the Social Security trust fund by freezing pay for government workers, including members of Congress. It also reforms programs in an effort to eliminate waste, fraud and abuse.”“As the economy fights to recover, it’s important to continue opening the doors for job creation. This bill directly supports measures that will ultimately aid in the creation of private sector jobs, such as the Keystone XL energy pipeline and blocks the EPA’s job destroying Boiler MACT regulations. Additionally, this legislation addresses the need for reform in our nation’s existing Unemployment Insurance program. Recognizing unemployment services should focus on helping Americans get back to work, the bill uses a two-step process to gradually reduce the number of weeks Unemployment Insurance recipients can receive benefits without finding gainful employment from 99 to 59 weeks, a common sense level that is in line with past recessions and economic downturns.”“For the past decade, Congress has been operating Medicare’s “doc fix” payment policy just a few months at a time, providing great uncertainty for Doctors serving patients with Medicare. This legislation includes a two-year doc fix, providing physicians greater stability and paves the way for a permanent solution. Also included with this provision are program updates to further reduce waste, fraud and abuse, as well as a repeal of $8 billion in funding mandated by ObamaCare.” “Because Washington must stop spending money our country simply does not have, House Republicans have fully offset the costs of this bill with real, common sense spending cuts. I hope the Senate and the Administration finally answer American’s call to action and swiftly pass this bill,” concluded Aderholt.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
12.08.2011	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: November 8, 2011 CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt Supports Farm Dust Regulation Prevention ActLegislation Provides Regulatory Certainty for America’s Farmers, Ranchers and Rural BusinessesWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), today released the following statement in support of H.R. 1633, the Farm Dust Regulation Prevention Act:“Farming and Agriculture are cornerstones of our nation’s history and our economy,” said Aderholt. “Burdensome regulations from the EPA and other bureaucratic red tape are hindering our nation’s farmers ability to provide for their families and America’s food needs. In these already tough economic times, we must carefully scrutinize regulations and what their real world affects will be, before they are implemented. I am pleased to be a supporter of this common sense legislation that will reduce the regulatory burden on farmers, ranchers and rural businesses, without compromising environmental standards in the short and long term.”H.R. 1633 would temporarily prohibit the EPA from issuing any new National Ambient Air Quality Standards for dust, for at least one year, providing greater certainty to Alabama farmers. The legislation would also limit regulation of nuisance dust areas to where it is not already regulated under state, tribal or local law when nuisance dust causes substantial adverse effects and where benefits of federal regulation outweigh the costs.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee and serves on the Agriculture Subcommittee.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
11.25.2011	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: November 25, 2011 CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt: The FCC’s Latest Move in the Proposed AT&T/T-Mobile USA Merger Demonstrates Yet Another Disconnect Between Administration and the Need for Job CreationWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), today released the following statement regarding the proposed merger between AT&T and T-Mobile:“While the Obama Administration’s $1.17 trillion stimulus package and failed Solyndra loans clearly demonstrated that the government cannot create jobs," said Aderholt. "The FCC and DOJ are demonstrating that the federal government actually can eliminate them.”“At a time when millions of Americans are looking for work, it appears that the Administration is looking to stifle job creation in one of the few industry sectors we’re ahead. The record is clear that this merger will allow an American company to purchase a foreign owned company that would create jobs here in the U.S. building and operating the new high-speed, nation-wide wireless broadband network and opening the way for everyone to have access to high-speed wireless broadband, including in rural areas like my district.”“Just last week the FCC stated that the expansion of high-speed broadband would add 500,000 new jobs across the country, and now they have inexplicably moved to try to block a merger that would generate up to 96,000 new jobs from AT&T’s direct investment alone.”“As a senior member of the Appropriations subcommittee overseeing funding for national commerce and justice-related programs, we should be constantly looking for ways to facilitate cost-effective investment in critical infrastructure to spur job creation and advance America’s global competitiveness, and this merger would accomplish both without costing the taxpayers a dime.”“The FCC’s order would condemn Americans to staying in an era of slower speeds, slower deployments of this revolutionary technology, and fewer jobs. While all mergers must be reviewed I think the Administration should rethink this decision and encourage the investment in high-speed wireless broadband, not deter investment by throwing up roadblocks,"Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
11.21.2011	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: November 21, 2011 CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt Statement on Super Committee ProgressWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), today released the following statement as the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, also known as the “Super Committee,” meets before the impending November 23rd deadline:“The goal of the Super Committee is simple, reign in wasteful Washington spending and start chipping away at our nation’s $15 trillion debt, so that our children and grandchildren will have the same economic opportunities we did,” said Aderholt. “Sadly, it looks like that will not happen. Failure by the Super Committee to reach an agreement will be a clear indication of the continued stalemate in Washington and further evidence some Democrats still do not recognize Washington does not have a revenue problem, Washington has a spending problem.”“While Democrats may blame the failure of the Super Committee on Conservatives unwillingness to raise taxes, the dismal unemployment numbers and failed bailouts and stimulus of the past three years are clear proof we must put an end to Washington’s revolving door of debt, by cutting spending. Our economy is finally showing faint signs of economic recovery, we must capitalize on that momentum. Although there will be disappointment and concern if an agreement is unable to be reached, I am proud my colleagues continue to stand their ground and are fighting to not raise taxes on hardworking Alabama families and small businesses.”“In the past three years alone, the national debt has increased a staggering 34 percent, under the current Administration. The federal government cannot continue borrowing 42 cents of every dollar spent and expect our economy to turn around. And although it is clear House Republicans may not be able to undo all the damage done, including the many burdensome regulatory and job crushing policies put in place by the Administration over the last three years, I can assure you that House Republican continue to fight tirelessly to try reverse these burdensome regulations and put forth pro-active policies that promote economic growth and private-sector job creation.”Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
11.18.2011	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: November 18, 2011 CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt Supports Balanced Budget AmendmentOpportunity to End to Washington’s Spending Binge, Grow America’s Economy and Create JobsWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), today released the following statement in support of H.J. Res. 2, the Balanced Budget Amendment:“For the first 140 years of our nation’s history, except during times of war, the federal government operated a balanced budget,” said Aderholt. “However, in 1934 things began to change. Since then, the federal government has only had 12 balanced budgets, resulting in a $15 trillion national debt.”“While Alabama families and small business continue to tighten their belts and live within their means, the federal government is borrowing 42 cents of every dollar spent. Washington is in a spending-driven debt crisis and a balanced budget amendment would require Washington to live within its means from here on out, no excuses, no gimmicks.”“In the past three years alone the national debt has increased a staggering 34 percent. If our economy is to recover and grow, our nation’s small businesses are to create sustainable private-sector jobs and our children and grandchildren are to have a prosperous future, the buck must stop here. I am proud to cosponsor this vital legislation and look forward to its passage,” concluded Aderholt.Bill Highlights:Requires the President’s budget submission be balanced;Requires a super majority 3/5 vote for total spending for any fiscal year that exceeds total revenue;Requires a super majority 3/5 vote for any future debt limit increase;Requires a majority vote for any tax increase; andIncludes a waiver for war.This resolution currently has 242 bipartisan cosponsors also previously passed the House of Representatives in 1995 with 300 bipartisan votes.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
11.17.2011	CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt Supports FY12 Mini-BusLegislation Includes Support for NASA’s SLS Rocket, Disaster Relief Funding and Provides $7 Billion in Spending CutsWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), released the following statement in support of the Fiscal Year 2012 Agriculture; Commerce, Justice and Science; Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bills and Continuing Resolution, keeping the government in operation until December 16, 2011:“This legislation, also known as the mini-bus, is another step in the right direction of reigning in wasteful spending and getting our economy back on track,” said Aderholt. “This mini-bus fulfills what we have promised: it cuts discretionary spending for the second year running and establishes much needed priorities. Given the state of the economy, now more than ever, it is imperative to institute responsible spending levels, creating a better environment for economic growth and private sector job creation.”“I am pleased to say that North Alabama is not left out of this spending bill as there is an increase of $60 million in FY12 for the development of the SLS rocket, for a total of $1.86 billion. In addition the bill requires quarterly reports on the SLS project from NASA Headquarters. Specifically this provision limits spending on infrastructure and requires NASA demonstrate sufficient progress on the SLS project, before receiving all commercial crew funding. The continued development of the SLS rocket is a critical to human spaceflight and exploration and important to Alabama’s economy and I look forward to continuing to work on this project,” concluded Aderholt.Bill Highlights:Responsible Funding Levels – The bill provides responsible funding for integral federal agencies and departments, maintaining the critical services and programs our citizens rely on. These programs facilitate public safety and health, improve our infrastructure, protect our most vulnerable citizens, and help grow our economy.The conference agreement for the three bills upholds the overall regular base discretionary level of $1.043 trillion as agreed to in the Budget Control Act (BCA). This funding level is a decrease of $7 billion from last year, and represents a savings of $93 billion compared to the President’s request.Important Policy Items – This Conference Report contains important policy items that will discourage government overreach in the daily lives of Americans, provide better oversight on the use of precious taxpayer dollars, protect our citizens and our homeland, and tighten the reins on harmful, job?killing federal regulations that make it harder for employers to create jobs. Some of these items include:- Bolstering Trade and Job Creation – The report includes language to bolster U.S. trade and strengthen the marketplace, including language encouraging free trade agreements, manufacturing growth, a better import-export trade balance, and repatriation to bring jobs back to the U.S.- Deportation Funding – The report provides additional funding for judges to expedite deportation hearings of illegal immigrants.- “GIPSA” Rule – The report places restrictions on the implementation of a proposed rule by the Grain Inspection and Packers and Stockyards Administration (GIPSA) that would have allowed harmful government interference in the private market for livestock and poultry.- Second Amendment Rights – The conference agreement includes numerous provisions that protect the right to keep and bear arms. Three of these protections are made permanent beginning in FY 2012. These three provisions prohibit Department of Justice (DOJ) from consolidating firearms sales records, electronically retrieving the records of former firearms dealers, and maintaining information on persons who have passed firearms background checks. In addition, the conference agreement contains numerous one-year firearms protections, and new language prohibiting DOJ from requiring imported shotguns to meet a "sporting purposes" test.- Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Oversight – The Conference Report includes new oversight reforms at HUD, including: oversight reports on how community development program funds are used, reforms to the mismanaged HOME Investment Partnerships Program, required reports on eliminating waste, fraud and abuse; a 37.5% funding cut for the mismanaged HOME Investment Partnerships Program; and no funding for the unauthorized “Sustainable Communities” program.- Gitmo - The report continues provisions related to Guantanamo Bay – including a prohibition on the transfer or release of any detainee into the U.S., and a prohibition on the acquisition or construction of any new prison to house detainees.- Federal Home Loan Reform – The bill does not increase the maximum loan limits for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. These entities have been under public scrutiny for their questionable businesses practices and use of billions in federal bailout funds, some of which have been used for extravagant management bonuses. The bill limits the increase in the conforming loan limits to only the Federal Housing Authority (FHA), which is subject to greater congressional scrutiny and oversight.- Climate Change – The conference agreement does NOT include funding to establish a new National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Climate Service. The Administration requested $322 million to establish this new entity within NOAA.Disaster Funding – Numerous major natural disasters this year have cost states and communities billions – requiring historic levels of relief and recovery assistance. Federal agencies are receiving relief requests from nearly every state, and it is critical that Congress provide necessary funds to help families, businesses, and communities recover from these devastating disasters.After close scrutiny of disaster funding needs within the Departments of Transportation, Commerce, and Agriculture, the Conference Report provides $2.3 billion in disaster relief funding for these agencies –approximately $850 million less than the Senate-passed legislation. These funds will be used solely for recovery related to natural disasters and catastrophes and will not grow the underlying budget or size of these agencies.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
11.09.2011	CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt Statement on Administration’s Approval of Nationwide Christmas Tree TaxUSDA Approval of Christmas Tree Tax Reveals Concern About the Administration’s Continued Tax-and-Spend Policies Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), today released the following statement in wake of the Administration’s approval of a new 15 cent on all Christmas trees, that is slated to pay for a nationwide, government sponsored ad campaign to promote the benefits of live Christmas trees:“The federal government in the midst of the worst budgetary situation in recent history and while Congress looks to make $1.2 trillion in critical spending cuts and implement policies promoting private-sector job growth, the Administration’s new Christmas tree tax and ad campaign is clear evidence of misaligned and misguided priorities in Washington,” said Aderholt.“As the House continues to fight for additional spending cuts and free-market solutions, the Administration is once again challenging American liberty and now defaming the real meaning and spirit of Christmas. The size and role of government has already grown to epic proportions over recent years and the Administration’s use of the holidays to promote their goals of increased government intervention and a tax-and-spend agenda is simply unacceptable,” concluded Aderholt.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
11.01.2011	Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this resolution reaffirming ``In God We Trust'' as the official motto of the United States of America.The motto is more than just a slogan. It defines the sentiments, I believe, of the Founding Fathers. While they never intended there to be an official state religion, they fully endorsed the idea of the acknowledgement of God.From the opening of each day in the House and in the Senate with prayer, to the private prayers of the individual Founders, the Founders indeed did put their trust in God. I believe they knew in their hearts that God had a special place for the United States of America and this new Nation.And while they knew that a Christian and godly Nation could never be achieved by any legislation that Congress could pass, they knew it was the people of the Nation who would individually receive God in their hearts for this to be truly a godly Nation.So today, Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this resolution that's before us reaffirming our motto ``In God We Trust.''
10.26.2011	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 26, 2011 CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt Announces Fourth Congressional District Ag and Industry Tour Twelfth Annual Event Showcases Business in Cullman and Walker CountiesWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today announced the dates and locations for the twelfth annual Fourth Congressional District Agriculture and Industry Tour. Taking place on Thursday, November 10th and Friday, November 11th the event will highlight businesses in Cullman and Walker Counties of Alabama.Among the business and sites Congressman Aderholt and tour participants will visit are: in Cullman, Cullman Cabinet and Supply, Gold Vine Farms and Stone Bridge Farms; in Jasper, Smith Dam and Hydroelectric Facility; in Bremen, HH Technologies; and in Hanceville, the Burrow Museum for the Fine and Performing Arts at Wallace State Community College.“North Alabama’s various industries, small businesses and agriculture have a vital impact on our region and I believe it is important to support and learn as much about them as possible,” said Aderholt. “In addition to being a wonderful learning experience for me, this tour also gives me the opportunity to meet and visit with constituents from across the district. I encourage anyone who has an interest in participating to call the Cullman district office for further details.”“From farms to fine arts, each of these locations is an example of the economic impact being made in the Fourth Congressional District and the great state of Alabama. At each stop we will take a walking tour and receive an overview of the business at that location. I look forward to another successful, engaging tour.”The Fourth Congressional District Agriculture and Industry tour visited sites in Marshall and DeKalb counties in 2010, Walker county in 2009, Marshall and DeKalb counties in 2008, and Cullman and Winston counties in 2007. Congressman Aderholt hosted the very first Ag and Industry tour in 2000 in Blount, Marshall and DeKalb counties.The Agriculture and Industry Tour is open to anyone who would like to attend, however space is limited. Anyone interested in attending should contact Jennifer Taylor in the Cullman District Office at (256) 734-6043. The registration fee for the two-day event, which includes transportation, dinner and lunch, is $100, or $50 for only one day. Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
10.13.2011	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 13, 2011 CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt Supports The Protect Life ActLegislation Would End Taxpayer Funded Abortion In Federal Health Care Lawclick here to watchWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement after the United States House of Representatives passed H.R. 358, the Protect Life Act. The bill prohibits federal funding of abortions and abortion coverage under the recently enacted health care law.“Protection of unborn life is a universal issue that has become one of the most unifying causes over the past several decades,” said Aderholt. “There is one thing a majority of Americans can agree upon and that is that they do not want to see taxpayer dollars used to pay for abortions and I whole-heartedly agree.”“The healthcare legislation that was signed into law in 2010 does not protect the unborn and in no way included clear or direct provisions that would prohibit federal funding of abortions, and the President’s Executive Order 13535 on this issue was wholly inadequate. Executive Orders can be rescinded at any time and cannot be relied upon to clarify such a critical matter.”“I am proud to have cosponsored the Protect Life Act and its passage today is an important step in ensuring the right to life of each and every human being is preserved and protected in our great nation.” Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
10.12.2011	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 12, 2011 CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt Statement on Passage of Trade Agreements House Passes Colombia, Panama and Korea Free Trade AgreementsWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement after the House passed the extension of the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) and trade agreements between the United States and Colombia, Panama and Korea.“This is a global economy and there has to be a market for Alabama goods such as beef, chicken and agriculture products,” said Aderholt. “However trade agreements only work if it is equally beneficial to both countries. And lately it seems that the biggest export for the United States has been jobs in the manufacturing and textile industries. Therefore, I voted against the Korean Free Trade Agreement, due to the possibility of even more of these jobs could be sent overseas.” “In addition, with the extension of the Generalized System of Preferences in its current form, American sleeping bag manufacturers, like Exxel Outdoors, are now facing a grim reality of whether they can afford to do business within the United States. GSP was designed to be a mutually beneficial agreement between the US and friendly developing nations that would provide lower costs to American operations but also protect our import sensitive industries. However a loophole is hurting American sleeping bag manufacturers like Exxel Outdoors and compelled me to vote no on this provision.”“The extension passed today, was passed without addressing GSP’s current flaw and the result of this inaction could mean another 100 plus people could be standing in the unemployment line in North Alabama, a region that has been devastated by natural disaster and is already facing an unemployment rate of over 15 percent.”“Companies like Exxel Outdoors that have fought to bring overseas jobs, back to the United States should be celebrated and rewarded for invigorating our nation’s economy, instead with the passage of this provision they are being punished and once again those American jobs could become a thing of the past,” concluded Aderholt.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
10.05.2011	CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Cybersecurity Task Force Releases RecommendationsFramework for Legislative Action Unveiled in the HouseWashington, D.C.— The House Cybersecurity Task Force today unveiled its recommendations to help guide legislative action for the remainder of this Congress and beyond. The Task Force formally delivered its report to the Speaker and Majority Leader earlier this week.“Cybersecurity attacks are a direct threat to our economy and job creation, as well as our national security. The task force has addressed this critical issue in a thoughtful and substantive way, and I look forward to working with our committee chairmen and all our members to examine and act on these recommendations in the coming weeks and months. I particularly want to thank Rep. Thornberry and our members for all of their hard work in putting together this report,” said House Speaker John Boehner.Reflecting a growing concern about malicious cyber activity, House Speaker John Boehner and Majority Leader Eric Cantor formally created the Cybersecurity Task Force in June. They asked Rep. Mac Thornberry to lead the effort and appointed members from nine committees with significant jurisdiction on the issue, as well as three at-large members. They charged the group with making recommendations in four key areas: authorities, information sharing and public-private partnerships, critical infrastructure, and domestic legal frameworks. “These recommendations provide sound, concrete steps to help strengthen our cybersecurity now, while also highlighting issues that need more work,” said Rep. Thornberry, who chaired the Task Force. “Starting with incentives, information sharing, and updating some key laws can lead to real progress rather than more gridlock like we have seen with larger proposals,” he continued.The recommendations highlight the critical need for the improvement of existing information sharing structures and the development of an active defense capability. Taken together, such efforts would improve security and disseminate real-time information designed to help target and defeat malicious cyber activity.Also included in the framework is the adoption of voluntary incentives to encourage private companies to improve cybersecurity, such as the development of voluntary standards through a public-private partnership, utilizing existing tax credits and grant funding to promote increased security, and studying the possible role the insurance industry may play in strengthening cybersecurity. Suggestions for oversight and reporting requirements are also outlined.The group mentions several federal laws dealing with cybersecurity that need to be updated with an eye toward reform, including Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) of 2002, Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (CFAA) of 1986, as well as other communications laws and criminal statutes.Finally, the Task Force acknowledges that updating legal authorities is among the most complex issues facing lawmakers. It does recommend certain areas where Congress should begin action on updating these authorities, including the federal government defining a proactive process for Defense Support of Civil Authorities (DSCA) and increased support from the Department of Defense to the broader federal government. The group also suggests that Congress should formalize the Department of Homeland Security’s current role in coordinating cybersecurity for federal civilian agencies’ computer and networks. The Task Force represents a broad cross-section of the House Republican Conference and the committees of jurisdiction on the issue of cybersecurity. In addition to Rep. Thornberry, Members serving in the group include Reps. Robert Aderholt (R-AL), Jason Chaffetz (R-UT), Mike Coffman (R-CO), Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Robert Hurt (R-VA), Bob Latta (R-OH), Dan Lungren (R-CA), Mike McCaul (R-TX), Tim Murphy (R-PA), Steve Stivers (R-OH), and Lee Terry (R-NE).Comments from Task Force Members:Rep. Robert Aderholt:“Cybersecurity poses some of the most serious economic and national security challenges our nation faces. Additionally, in today’s tight budget environment we must ensure every dollar spent equals security realized. I am proud of the work of the Cybersecurity Task Force and the fiscally responsible policy recommendations we have laid out today. I look forward to working with my colleagues on this vital national security issue going forward.” Rep. Jason Chaffetz: “America is under attack. As a nation we must do a better job of identifying, preventing, and proactively engaging those who would do us harm.” Rep. Mike Coffman:“Cybersecurity is a rapidly evolving challenge, and I am confident that our Task Force’s recommendations will put us on the right track in helping to protect our networks from attacks that could threaten both our national and economic security.”Rep. Bob Goodlatte:“I applaud the work of the Task Force and in particular Chairman Thornberry. I look forward to continuing our efforts in this important and vital area. These recommendations provide an excellent framework for the House to craft legislation relating to cybersecurity.”Rep. Robert Hurt:“I appreciate the opportunity to be a part of the Cybersecurity Task Force and to work with my colleagues on cybersecurity policy, and I want to thank Congressman Thornberry for his leadership on this very important issue. Cybersecurity affects nearly every aspect of our lives – our economy, financial sector, national security, and daily communications – and it is critical that we take the necessary steps to increase our cybersecurity protections across the country. Together, the Task Force has produced a unified set of recommendations that will help modernize our approach to cybersecurity to keep pace with the evolving threats, while remaining committed to the principles of a limited government, the protection of individual privacy and property rights, a commitment to safety and security, and a partnership with the private sector. As we all work together to implement solutions to address the growing threats of cyber attacks, it is my hope that both the House and the Senate will act on these recommendations.”Rep. Bob Latta:“The security of our Nation’s information networks is a critical matter of personal privacy and economic competitiveness. The recommendations of the Task Force will be used to educate Members of Congress, as well as constituents, about the gravity of this issue. If 85 percent of the threats to our information systems can be prevented with proper “cybersecurity hygiene,” public knowledge and best practices, we can go a long way to reducing cyber attacks.”Rep. Dan Lungren: “The world of cyberthreats and cyberwarfare is upon us. We have to establish cybersecurity as a priority sooner rather than later. The consensus among experts is that 85% of current cyberthreats can be thwarted by current cyber hygiene. Public awareness is one or our first priorities.”Rep. Mike McCaul:"Admiral Mike Mullen has called cyber warfare one of the greatest threats to our national security. Today this task force is ready to move forward to address our most critical needs. Our recommendations echo many of those in the CSIS report we presented to the President when he took office including securing federal networks from theft and espionage, and protecting our critical infrastructure. I look forward to swift progress passing many of the ideas where we have agreement including my Cybersecurity Enhancement Act, which unanimously passed through committee and awaits a vote on the House floor."Rep. Tim Murphy: “The new frontier of national security is cybersecurity. The recommendations unveiled this week were developed out of the experiences and ideas of national security experts, private sector innovators, and our congressional colleagues with an understanding of the dangers that come with electronic vulnerability. Our framework centers on the premise that cybersecurity entails all aspects of our society, from government business to commercial transactions to our national infrastructure.”Rep. Steve Stivers: “The cyber threat is real and impacts all aspects of our lives, including our jobs, national security, and personal information. As a member of the House Cybersecurity Task Force, I believe the recommendations will ensure the federal government leads by example, protects critical infrastructure, and creates incentives for private sector companies to adopt cybersecurity protection standards. By strengthening a partnership with the private sector, the federal government can step up cybersecurity protections, and at the same time raise awareness for all Americans to do our part to protect ourselves and our way of life.”Rep. Lee Terry:“After months of work on the Cyber Task Force, one thing is very clear, and that is that our country is in need of sound policy that will protect us from 21st century attacks to our critical infrastructure. I am confident that the framework we are providing the Speaker will help to shape this needed policy as Committees begin their work in drafting legislative language.”Read the full Cybersecurity Task Force recommendations.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
10.04.2011	CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt, Bachus: FEMA Will Not Tear Down Storm SheltersWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) and Congressman Spencer Bachus (AL-6) said today that they have been informed by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) that it will not force the demolition of emergency storm shelters at schools in Alabama.FEMA officials told Congressmen Aderholt and Bachus that they will work with school administrators on a plan that would enable them to acquire the structures and keep them open to protect students and citizens in the community. Details of the proposal remain to be finalized with the schools, but the congressmen said they have been assured by representatives of FEMA Director Craig Fugate that there is no threat of storm shelters being torn down or moved.“After discussions with FEMA and local officials regarding current storm shelter policy, I’m pleased we are working toward a common sense solution that will benefit our students, communities and taxpayers. FEMA and Administrator Fugate stepped up to the plate, ensuring that the bureaucratic process not stand in the way of safety,” said Congressman Aderholt, who is Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security.“It never made sense to tear down perfectly good storm shelters, and it’s a relief that is totally off the table. Ensuring that storm shelters are available to protect our children and citizens has been an even greater priority for Alabama since the deadly tornadoes this spring. My hope was always that that this problem could be solved by common sense, rather than by legislation, and from our discussions with FEMA today that is where we are headed,” said Congressman Bachus, who introduced a bill on September 14 to prevent the removal of demolition of the storm shelters.Under existing FEMA policy, storm shelters built with FEMA funds to serve portable classrooms can be potentially be torn down once damaged schools have been repaired or replaced. While the structures can be purchased from FEMA at “fair market” rates, the cost is prohibitive for school systems already dealing with storm-related expenses. The policy came under sharp criticism from school officials and communities faced with losing a newly-built and fully functioning storm shelter. Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
10.04.2011	CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt Traveling Help Desk to Visit Red Bay and Double SpringsCongressional Staff On-Site to Assist Constituents with Federal CaseworkWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today announced that District Field Representative Daniel Tidwell will be in Red Bay and Double Springs on Thursday, October 13, 2011 to provide assistance to those needing help working with federal agencies. “With a district that stretches across the state, it can be difficult for people to travel to our district offices when they need help,” said Aderholt. “By bringing district staff to local communities, we can effectively assist those who otherwise would be unable to get support. This is an excellent opportunity for folks to come and discuss their issues with Daniel, who will help me begin the process of finding solutions for them.” October 13, 2011 Traveling Help Desk HoursRed BayDouble SpringsRed Bay Town HallDouble Springs Town Hall 9:00 – 11:00 a.m.1:00 – 3:00 p.m. Congressional offices can help with a variety of federal issues, including Social Security, Veteran’s Affairs and Medicare issues. For a full list of services Congressman Aderholt’s office can assist visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
09.29.2011	CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt, Franks, Fortenberry Send Letter on Behalf of Christian Iranian PastorWashington, D.C. — Congressmen Robert Aderholt (AL-04), Trent Franks (AZ-02) and Jeff Fortenberry (NE-01) today sent a letter to Iranian Grand Ayatollah Khamenei on behalf of Pastor Youcef Nadarkhani, who has been sentenced to execution as early as today for refusing on four separate occasions to recant his Christian faith.Congressman Robert Aderholt:“Religious freedom is one of the most important and fundamental rights a person should have. The conviction and sentencing of Iranian Christian Pastor, Mr. Youcef Nadarkhani because of his religious beliefs is very unfortunate and violates basic human rights and Iran’s international commitments. No one should be persecuted, discriminated against or face death because of their faith and it is my sincerest hope that Iran’s leaders do what is right and release Pastor Nadarkhani and all those facing persecution because of their faith.”Congressman Trent Franks:"I am compelled to remind an ostensibly modernized government that it is shameful and cowardly to kill an innocent person for merely practicing his faith. While Iran's leaders claim to uphold tolerance, the Iranian people deserve to know that their government is hypocritically disregarding one of the most fundamental human rights: the ability of the Iranian people to freely choose a faith of their choice."I appeal to whatever semblance of humanity may remain in the hearts of Iran's leaders and urge the Obama Administration to make it clear, through every channel possible, that such grievous human rights abuses will not stand."Congressman Jeff Fortenberry:“I am deeply grieved by reports of the apostasy verdict issued in the case of Pastor Nadarkhani. The scope and nature of religious persecution in Iran is deeply disturbing. Leaders in the civilized community of nations must speak out loudly and clearly against such a drastic violation of basic and commonly held human rights norms.”The full text of the letter is attached and available here.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
09.21.2011	Aderholt Floor Statement: FY12 Continuing Resolution(Remarks as Prepared) click here to watchMr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this must-pass resolution.Not only does this CR provide the necessary funds and authority to keep the government operating, it also provides an immediate and substantial infusion of vital funding to both FEMA’s disaster relief efforts and the Corps of Engineers’ Flood Control and Coastal Emergencies account – and it does all of this in a fiscally responsible way.This resolution before us today complies with the recently enacted Budget Control Act and also provides the Appropriations Committees of the House and Senate ample time to complete our work on the FY12 budget.And, for hard-hit communities all across the country – including those in my home State of Alabama – who have been so badly devastated by fires, flooding, tornadoes, and hurricanes over the past five months, this CR will sustain FEMA’s disaster relief and recovery efforts and help the Corps with additional funding for emergency flood control projects.And the duration of this CR will provide the time to review and scrutinize FEMA’s preliminary damage estimates for Hurricane Irene – estimates that are based upon historical projections rather than actual data and claims that are still in the process of being collected.This oversight will enable the Appropriations Committees the time to properly and responsibly address the Administration’s full supplemental request – a request that was only submitted to Congress less than two weeks ago.While Congress has an undeniable obligation to thoroughly address our Nation’s disaster relief needs, we can no longer afford to simply throw money at calamities and then ask the hard questions later. We have to get our funding priorities right – and that is exactly what both Chairman Rogers and I have repeatedly said when it come to appropriations for homeland security.Mr. Speaker, this CR is the right tool at the right time. I urge my colleagues to support this vital resolution and responsibly address our Nation’s most pressing needs.I thank the distinguished Chairman and yield back the balance of my time. ###
09.21.2011	CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt: Continuing Resolution Keeps the Focus on Job Creation, Disaster Relief and Cutting Government SpendingWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) released the following statement today regarding the passage of a Continuing Resolution (CR) that for a second year in a row cuts spending, adds a much needed $3.65 billion for ongoing disaster relief efforts and keeps the government running until November 18:“The Continuing Resolution passed by the House today is a critical piece of legislation that once again cuts spending below last year’s levels, while providing vital disaster relief funding and prevents a government shutdown,” said Aderholt. “The Senate and the President must look past partisan politics, avoid brinksmanship and move swiftly on this measure to ensure uninterrupted government operation.” “Since the House passed the FY12 Homeland Security Appropriations bill in June, which included an additional $1 billion for FEMA’s disaster relief efforts, continued inaction by the Senate and the Administration has allowed the Disaster Relief Fund to reach critically and historically low levels. On the heels of five months of devastating natural disasters across the country, including tornadoes in my home state of Alabama, the DRF has less than $250 million in its coffers.”“Recent issues with FEMA’s storm shelter policy have also brought to light the need for additional oversight, to ensure policies and procedures are best benefitting disaster victims and taxpayers alike. The CR provides a much needed, immediate $1 billion infusion, as well as an additional $2.65 billion to fund FEMA’s disaster relief efforts over the next fiscal year. This bill also provides Congress with the time to conduct greater oversight and ample time to evaluate and accurately account for damages from the most recent disaster, Hurricane Irene.”“We must work together to get our economy back on track and remove government barriers to private-sector job growth. The American people do not want or deserve the dangerous instability of a government shutdown or any more unnecessary holdups in disaster recovery efforts,” concluded Aderholt.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
09.14.2011	CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt Statement on FEMA Storm Shelter PolicyWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) released the following statement regarding storm shelter policy issues that are affecting Alabama communities and schools:“I spoke directly with FEMA Director Craig Fugate today, and he acknowledges the problem with this particular situation and over the next thirty days, I’ll be working with him and my delegation colleagues to find a solution. In addition, Congressman Bachus (AL-06) and I introduced legislation today that would make storm shelters available to local governing bodies at no additional costs. Hopefully this will not take an act of Congress to ensure we get this done and get it done right.”Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
09.14.2011	CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt Statement on NASA SLS AnnouncementWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) released the following statement in response the announcement made by NASA today to proceed with development of the Space Launch System (SLS):“Today’s announcement by NASA to move forward with the development of the Space Launch System is a great step forward in maintaining America’s leadership in human space flight. However, it is long overdue and I am eager to see the details of this decision. I will work to ensure that NASA proceeds with the 130-metric ton SLS plan passed by Congress. I am proud that the SLS will be managed in Alabama and will put the best and the brightest scientists and engineers in our great state to work on this critical venture. I will continue to monitor the situation and continue the fight to keep human space flight funded at appropriate levels as an American priority.” Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science, which provides funding for NASA; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
09.12.2011	CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Washington, D.C.— Today, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (R-Texas) and Homeland Security Subcommittee Chairman Robert Aderholt (R-Ala.) sent a letter to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Janet Napolitano requesting information and documents about the development of the administration’s backdoor amnesty for illegal immigrants.The letter follows the Obama administration’s recent decision to create a new deportation policy that could open the door to allow millions of illegal immigrants to remain in the U.S. without a vote of Congress. Specifically, political appointees at DHS have announced that they will review illegal immigrants in removal proceedings with a final order of removal and consider allowing them to stay in the U.S. In addition to this letter, Chairmen Smith and Aderholt wrote to the Obama administration expressing serious reservations about Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s (ICE) new guidance directing reckless use of prosecutorial discretion in immigration enforcement.Below are excerpts from the letter.“The Department of Homeland Security announced that it will initiate a ‘case-by-case review’ of removal cases of aliens already placed in proceedings and ensure that ‘appropriate discretionary consideration’ be given to ‘compelling cases with final orders of removal.’ In addition to our concerns about the administration’s apparent abandonment of immigration enforcement, we also have significant concerns about how this new policy was developed. Accordingly, we write to request information and documents about the development and operation of these new policies. “This announcement by DHS seemingly represents the culmination of the administration’s plans to shield millions of illegal immigrants from removal. The initial release on June 17 of two memos by ICE took the historically unprecedented step of relying on ‘prosecutorial discretion’ to justify the abandonment of immigration enforcement against millions of illegal immigrants deemed a ‘low priority.’ … Now, DHS has expanded this policy to cover not only individuals already charged with violating the immigration laws and placed in removal proceedings, but even to illegal immigrants who already have final orders of removal.“This new policy is a perversion of our immigration laws … The Obama administration again chooses to ignore immigration laws under the guise of prosecutorial discretion. Despite the administration’s claims that there is nothing new with respect to this policy, it represents a drastic and unprecedented shift. “Ultimately, these memos may allow millions of illegal immigrants to remain in the United States in violation of existing law and regulations and compete with unemployed American and legal immigrant workers for scarce jobs. In the current environment, this effect is unconscionable. “To read the full letter, click here.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
09.09.2011	CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt Statement on Tenth Anniversary of 9/11 AttacksWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), who will be honoring our nation’s brave heroes at a ceremony in Cullman, Alabama on Sunday, issued the following statement regarding the tenth anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks:“Ten years ago a group determined through hate, challenged a nation,” said Aderholt. “The United States has long stood as a beacon of freedom and hope. As we have time and time again, Americans responded with resiliency and resolve. America was tested and America prevailed.”“When I think of this day every year, I am reminded not only of the moment when I first learned of the attacks, but also of the heroic measures taken by first responders and brave citizens responding to the crisis. On this day we turn our thoughts and prayers to the police, firefighters and first responders who without hesitation, ran into burning buildings, many sacrificing their own lives for others. On this day we remember the victims of these senseless attacks and the families and friends they left behind. On this day we honor the brave passengers of Flight 93, who fought, rather than give up. On this day we remember those across the country and the world that came together, prayed, organized vigils, donated blood and sent supplies and care packages to weary rescue workers. And on this day we draw courage from our heroes and the compassion of our citizens, as we are reminded of the resilience that propels us forward as a people.”“While the past ten years has bred new strands of terrorism and it is clear terrorists still have innocent Americans in their sights, our country continues to make great strides in national security and intelligence. However, all of us must remain vigilant knowing that we live in a dangerous world and know that we as a nation must work together so we will not be defeated by those who want to see the destruction of the United States. With that, on this day we also salute the valor of our troops, who fight the enemy each and every day and protect our people and the beacon of hope and freedom that is America. God Bless America,” concluded Aderholt.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
09.08.2011	CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Washington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement after the President’s joint Address to Congress:“More than ever it is clear we need not only good paying, but sustainable jobs in America,” said Aderholt. “While I appreciate the President addressing Congress this evening on one of the most critical issues our country is facing, I think what is missing is the realization trillions of dollars of stimulus spending simply did not work. It did not work because we cannot spend our way to prosperity, if we could then the country would be at full employment by now.”“Instead, our economy has continued to see dismal growth and record unemployment under the Administration’s current policies. The country did not add a single job in the month of August and for the past 31 months unemployment has been at or above eight percent. The current unemployment situation is a clear indication the Administration’s idea of spend, stimulus and regulate does not lead the way to job growth.”“As Washington looks for additional solutions to create jobs, I hope the Administration and Congress will start by keeping jobs within our borders and join me in supporting fixing GSP. GSP was designed to level the playing field for American companies with many foreign competitors, however a loophole is hurting American sleeping bag manufacturers like Exxel Outdoors located in Alabama’s Fourth Congressional District. Without fixing GSP’s current flaw, another 150 people could be standing in the unemployment line in a region that has been devastated by natural disaster and is already facing an unemployment rate of over 15 percent.”“Americans are looking to Washington to allow businesses to retain and create jobs through deregulation and fair trade agreements that level the playing field for American businesses to compete. This is what will get our economy back on track. I hope the Administration and my colleagues will join me in the fight and start by fixing GSP and saving American jobs,” concluded Aderholt.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
08.27.2011	MEDIA CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Rogers, Aderholt and Emerson Call on Senate and Administration to Ensure Vital Disaster Recovery Efforts Continue Without InterruptionAppropriations Leaders Urge Prompt Passage of the FY12 DHS Appropriation Bill, Providing Immediate, Essential Funding for FEMA’s Disaster Relief FundWashington, D.C.— House Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers (KY-05), House Appropriations Homeland Security Subcommittee Chairman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) and House Appropriations Financial Services Subcommittee Chairwoman Jo Ann Emerson (MO-08) today released the following statement after the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) invoked an “immediate needs posture” indicating that funding for the Disaster Relief Fund (DRF) has reached dangerously low levels. In addition, the DRF could be drained further with the added possibility of yet more funding needs as Hurricane Irene approaches the eastern seaboard.Due to the low funding level reached in the DRF today, the agency is now required to fund only “immediate needs” that impact lives and public health – otherwise these recovery activities could be interrupted indefinitely.Currently, the FEMA’s DRF has $792 million in its coffers. This level is dangerously low given the unpredictability of disasters that may occur throughout the remainder of the fiscal year. Although the House Appropriations Committee has repeatedly asked the Obama Administration and the Department of Homeland Security to address the availability and expenditure rate of disaster relief funds since January, the Executive Branch has not taken any steps to avoid this unfortunate predicament."Time and time again, the Administration has ignored the obvious funding needs of the Disaster Relief Fund, purposefully and irresponsibly underfunding the account and putting families and communities who have suffered from terrible disasters on the back burner. Now the Administration has let the fund reach critically low levels, putting continued recovery as risk, without a plan for the future or a clear method for dealing with new disasters such as the oncoming Hurricane Irene," House Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers said.Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Robert Aderholt echoed Rogers’ remarks, saying:“Shoring up the Disaster Relief Fund by insisting in ‘truth in budgeting’ has been a key priority for me this year, but some in Washington struggle with ensuring the DRF has adequate resources. Over 87 days have passed since the House passed the FY12 Homeland Security Appropriations bill, which included $2.65 billion for FY12 on top of an additional $1 billion for FY11 for the DRF. Further, over 39 days ago, I sent a letter to Secretary Napolitano encouraging the Administration to ensure ongoing recovery efforts continue uninterrupted. However, even though the President himself said that ‘we are going to do everything we can to help these communities rebuild,’ the rhetoric has not matched reality and the Disaster Relief Fund is running out of money.”Financial Services Subcommittee Chairwoman Jo Ann Emerson – who hails from a disaster-stricken area of Missouri, also expressed her frustration with the inadequate level of funding:“FEMA is running on fumes as they help those recovering from the devastating floods and tornadoes earlier this year. The House has done its job to boost FEMA’s resources for ongoing recovery and future disasters, but the Senate is sitting on their hands instead of passing the Homeland Security Appropriations bill that will provide critical supplemental funding. What’s more, we are in the middle of hurricane season, and with the continued threat of new disasters, we risk leaving those already affected in the lurch” Emerson said.All three Appropriations leaders also expressed their concern for the people and communities in the path of hurricane Irene, saying, “Our thoughts and prayers are going out for the health and safety of those who will be impacted by this storm.”The House Appropriations Committee has repeatedly attempted to address the shortfall in the DRF. The recent fiscal year 2011 federal spending bill, which passed in April, included an additional $700 million above the FY10 level for the DRF – a total of $2.65 billion. After devastating tornadoes and floods ravaged the South and Midwest, straining the DRF’s already limited resources, the House passed H.R. 2017, the Fiscal Year 2012 Homeland Security Appropriations bill, which included $1 billion in emergency funding for the DRF and an additional $2.65 billion for the fund for FY12. Although it has been more than 87 days since the House approved this bill, the Senate has yet to take action on it.###To readhttps://aderholt.house.gov/index.cfm?sectionid=304&parentid=12&sectiontree=12,304&itemid=1194
08.19.2011	CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt Statement On Administration’s Intent to Grant Backdoor Amnesty to IllegalsCreation of Department of Homeland Security Working Group Ignores Federal Immigration Laws, Wastes National Security ResourcesWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), released the following statement after the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) announced the creation of a new working group, tasked with beginning a case-by-case review of illegal immigrants currently in DHS custody and requiring removal of only dangerous criminal aliens from the United States. “Protecting our borders and enforcing immigration laws are vital components of the United States national security,” said Aderholt. “The creation of this new Department of Homeland Security working group raises real concerns that the Administration yet again has intentions of granting backdoor amnesty to illegal immigrants. This is a clear and blatant abdication of responsibility and abuse of the Department and the Administration’s discretion.”“It is the Administration’s duty to uphold the Constitution and the laws of the Congress. The Administration should be striving to find solutions to enforce immigration laws, not be seeking for ways in which to ignore them.”“Let us not forget that as the tenth anniversary of 9/11 approaches, the importance of protecting our nation’s borders; and the 9/11 Commission’s findings, that many of those who executed the terrorist attack that shaped a generation, were ‘just’ here illegally, not as criminal aliens.”“Today more than ever, our nation’s fiscal resources are constrained. And what limited funds we have must be put towards strong enforcement and security. Funds the Department of Homeland Security receives should not used to blatantly ignore the law and implement flawed and reckless policies providing amnesty to illegals,” concluded Aderholt.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
08.02.2011	CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt Congratulates Wrangler on Reconstruction and Expansion in HackleburgTornado Ravished Facility to Open in 2013 and Bring Additional Jobs to North Alabama Washington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), today released the follow statement in response to VF Corporation's announcement to rebuild and expand Wrangler’s facility in Hackleburg, Alabama. The largest employer in Hackleburg, the distribution center was destroyed during the April tornadoes that swept through much of North Alabama. “VF Corporation's decision shows that they have more than a bottom-line approach to doing business, but also a great heart and commitment to the community,” said Aderholt. “The Wrangler facility is part of the lifeblood of not only Hackleburg but much of Marion County. Wrangler has been a valued member of the Hackleburg community for over a generation and their rebuilding efforts brings certainty to so many who have already weathered so much hardship.”“There were many that worked on encouraging VF Corporation to rebuild but none deserve credit more than Governor Bentley. The Governor knows that we have good, skilled and hard working Alabamians ready to work. This decision to not only rebuild but expand is testament that VF Corporation agrees. I look forward to visiting the new facility in 2013.”The April 27th tornadoes ravished 80 percent of Hackleburg and the surrounding area, including the Wrangler distribution center that had been a part of the community since 1981. Since the tornado, Wrangler has continued providing work nearly all of the 150 employees at other facilities in Alabama. The new Hackleburg distribution center is set to create an addition fifty jobs in Marion County and is set to open in 2013.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
08.01.2011	CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt Supports Amended Budget Control Act of 2011Washington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), today issued the following statement after the Amended Budget Control Act of 2011, passed the United States House of Representatives by 269-161. The bill cuts and caps discretionary spending, does not raise taxes on hard-working Americans, protects seniors and veterans, requires the consideration of a Balanced Budget Amendment and provides a $900 billion debt limit increase ensuring the continued financial stability of the United States.“I believe that the majority of Alabamians would support any bill that includes spending cuts and implements a framework to require Washington live within its means from here on out,” said Aderholt. “Additionally this bill protects taxpayers, ensures our seniors and veterans receive the benefits they rightfully deserve and changes the spend now pay later culture of Washington.”“The Amended Budget Control Act is less than perfect, but it is important not to let the perfect stand in the way of the good. This legislation is yet another opportunity to live up to our pledge to reign in government spending and cut up the credit cards. House Republicans have remained committed to cutting spending, while controlling just one-half of one-third of the government, beginning with the CR to fund the government this year, continuing with the FY12 budget and now with the Budget Control Act,” concluded Aderholt. Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
07.30.2011	CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt Statement on Reid Debt Limit PlanWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), today issued the following statement after voting against Senator Harry Reid’s “Budget Control Act”, the measure failed to pass the United States House of Representatives by 173-246: “Last evening, the House passed yet another piece of legislation that would end the debt limit crisis, avoid a job-crushing national default, cut nearly a trillion dollars in spending, while making sure our seniors and military are protected,” said Aderholt. “The American people do not want Congress to pass a bill that gives the Administration a blank check, includes countless budget gimmicks and no real cuts or reforms to restrain future spending. Therefore, Senate Democrats should adopt the House passed legislation and put this entire issue to rest.” Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
07.29.2011	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 29, 2011 CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt Supports Budget Control Act of 2011Delivers Critical Cuts, Spending Limits and Puts America on an Immediate Deficit Reduction Plan Washington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), today issued the following statement after the Budget Control Act of 2011, passed the United States House of Representatives by 218-210. The Budget Control Act cuts and caps discretionary spending, takes measures to eliminate waste, fraud and abuse in multiple federal programs, requires the consideration of a balanced budget amendment and provides a $900 billion debt limit increase ensuring the continued financial stability of the United States. “The Budget Control Act passed today may not be a perfect piece of legislation, however it provides reasonable spending cuts that exceed the increase in the debt ceiling while at the same time protecting Social Security, Medicare and veterans benefits,” said Aderholt. “We did not get in to this budget mess with a single vote. House Republicans have consistently cut spending at every turn in an effort to get us out of it. And the Budget Control Act is the best step at this time in the fight to require Washington to live within its means from here on out.”“The national debt has increased by $3.7 trillion since just 2009 and today it stands at nearly $14.3 trillion dollars. That’s $46,000 per American citizen. We cannot continue down the same path and expect a different result. The measure puts in place immediate spending cuts and then spells out a process that sets spending caps that limits future spending. Cutting spending and setting caps on future spending is the only way that we will get Washington on to the path of fiscal responsible and to renew economic and job growth,” concluded Aderholt.Bill HighlightsCuts and caps spending by $917 billion over 10 years, beginning with a FY12 budget that is $22 billion lower than FY11;Caps discretionary spending each year for the next decade requiring Congress make sound spending decisions from here on out;Continues reducing discretionary spending annually (by $96 billion in 2012, $118 billion in 2013, $115 billion in 2014, $117 billion in 2015, and so on);Requires Congress to draft proposals that produce spending reductions of at least $1.8 trillion;Does not raise taxes on hard working Americans;Includes program integrity cap adjustments to ensure adequate funding of programs to reduce waste, fraud and abuse in health careand Social Security;Defines emergency spending, specifying spending must be for the prevention or response to the loss of life or property or a threat to national security that is unanticipated and temporary;Creates the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, a 12-member Committee tasked with developing recommendations by December to reduce the deficit by at least $1.8 trillion over the next ten years;Requires both the House and the Senate pass balanced budget amendments to the Constitution before the second debt limit increase occurs;Redirects $17 billon to the Pell Grant program, to reduce the projected shortfall for 2012 and 2013;Provides the President the authority to increase the debt limit by $900 billion, $400 billion of which is available immediately to avoid default. Further if the recommendations made by the Joint Committee to reduce the deficit are enacted and include spending cuts larger than the debt limit increase, and a balanced budget amendment is sent to the states an additional $1.6 trillion increase to the debt limit will be available for use at the President’s discretion;And ensures that in all cases, the debt limit increase is smaller than the total reduction in spending. Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
07.19.2011	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 19, 2011 CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha, 202.225.4876Aderholt Supports Cut, Cap and Balance ActDelivers Targeted Cuts, Reasonable Spending Limits and Requires a Balanced BudgetWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), today issued the following statement after the Cut, Cap and Balance Act, passed the United States House of Representatives by 234-190. The Cut, Cap and Balance Act cuts total spending by $111 billion in FY12, caps total spending as a percentage of GDP and requires the passage of a balanced budget amendment before raising the nation’s debt limit.“Our debt crisis is a result of Washington spending money it does not have and leaving the American people—both of today and future generations—with the devastating tab,” said Aderholt. “Spending money we do not have is the problem, so controlling Washington’s spending must be part of the solution. The Cut, Cap and Balance Act delivers immediate spending cuts, puts in place reasonable spending limits going forward, and requires Washington live within its means from here on out.”“Since the President took office in 2009, the National debt has increased by $3.7 trillion and today the national debt stands at nearly $14.3 trillion dollars. That’s $46,000 per American citizen. We cannot continue down the same path and expect a different result. The measures put in place through the Cut, Cap and Balance Act are important steps to getting America on a fiscally responsible path. I am proud to support such a common sense solution and help get our country back on the right track,” concluded Aderholt.Bill HighlightsCuts total spending by $111 billion in FY 2012, without cutting Social Security, Medicare or Veterans spending;Caps federal spending for the next decade on a sliding scale based on GDP;Requires the passage of a balanced budget amendment before raising the nation’s debt limit; andProvides for the President’s request for a debt ceiling increase if a qualifying balanced budget amendment passes Congress and is sent to the states for ratification.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
07.14.2011	CONTACT | Anne Marie Malecha | 202.225.4876Aderholt Calls on Administration to Clarify Misleading Debt Payment Default Statements, Protect Seniors, MilitaryAsks President Obama to Give American People Clear Answers on United States Ability to Pay Monthly Interest Payments, With or Without Agreement Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) and 60 Members of Congress sent a letter to President Obama urging him to clarify for the American people that even if a debt ceiling agreement is not reached, the United States will not default on its monthly interest payments, or be unable to pay our military and seniors. “There may be tough decisions ahead, however, the American People deserve the whole truth about this issue,” said Aderholt. “Democrats nor Republicans should mislead the public in this regard. To believe the United States will be unable make our debt payments and not continue to pay our military or scaring seniors is wrong and unnecessary. Political posturing is not appropriate, especially when it comes to our seniors. Comments like this will only further damage the good faith and credibility of our Nation. It’s critical we work together to do what’s best for those we serve, and neither party should misinform the public for the benefit of some political agenda.”Below is the text of the letter.Dear Mr. President:We remain hopeful that an agreement will be reached in the near future regarding spending levels and the debt ceiling. We write to you today, however, to express strong concern about recent comments by Treasury Secretary Geithner. We ask that you clarify for the American people that the Treasury will in fact continue making the monthly interest payments owed on our national debt, even if the debt ceiling is reached. As you are aware, the revenue projection for FY11 by the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) is $2,230 billion. The total estimated interest payment for FY11 is $213 billion. For FY12, CBO estimates revenues of $2,558 billion and interest payments totaling $257 billion.Statements by Secretary Geithner have led many Americans to believe that reaching the debt ceiling will cause the United States government to go into default on its interest payments August 2nd if the debt ceiling is reached. Clearly, that is not the case, as the figures above indicate. Additionally, many Americans believe making Social Security payments (CBO estimates: FY11: $727 billion; FY12: $760 billion), Medicare payments (CBO estimates: FY11: $563 billion; FY12: $560 billion) and ensuring the pay of our military personnel (DOD estimates: FY11 $157 billion; FY12: $160 billion) should be the Administration’s next priorities. Allowing statements to the contrary jeopardizes the good faith and credit of the United States. We ask that you make an immediate, clear and unequivocal public commitment that your Administration will continue to make all interest payments on time, as well as ensuring the pay of our military personnel, and making Social Security and Medicare payments in full. We look forward to your reply.Sincerely,Members of Congress Click here to view the letter online.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
07.13.2011	CONTACT | Anne Marie Malecha | 202.225.4876Aderholt Praises Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations LegislationFunds Critical NASA Programs, Vital Law Enforcement Initiatives and Methamphetamine Elimination EffortsWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today issued the following statement on the approval of the FY12 Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations bill in full committee today. The Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee funds several federal departments including the Department of Commerce (DOC), the Department of Justice (DOJ), NASA and other agencies.“At a time when fiscal discipline is of the utmost importance, I believe that the overall reductions, strategic increases and the sunset of duplicative and unnecessary programs included in this year’s Commerce, Justice and Science bill show the restraints necessary in these budgetary times,” said Aderholt. “Targeted increases were made to federal, state and local law enforcement on the frontlines that protect us from criminals and terrorists at home and abroad. These funds are critical to reducing drug trafficking and gang activity that remain high among many southern states like Alabama.”“I am thankful the Committee heeded my request to increase funding to the Methamphetamine Clean-Up Program. This year’s appropriation includes $15 million for the program, which is vital to helping to fighting the devastating methamphetamine epidemic that’s hit many of Alabama’s rural communities. The CJS bill also includes $133 million in funds to help DNA backlog reduction efforts at the federal, state and local level. As well as, $25 billion for regional information sharing activities and $10 million for the enforcement of the Prison Rape Elimination Act,” Aderholt continued.“The bill includes my request of $1.985 billion for the SLS 130-ton rocket. These funds are crucial for us to get back on pace for heavy-lift rocket development and to secure America’s rightful place as the leader in space exploration and technical development. The Committee report also reconfirms NASA’s obligation to perform simultaneous work on the core stage and the upper stage of the rocket. Also included is language on NASA’s plans to utilize the Marshall Space Flight Center’s Propulsion Research Laboratory located in North Alabama. It’s a unique asset for the country and I’ll continue to press NASA to ensure it is fully utilized.”Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
07.12.2011	CONTACT | Anne Marie Malecha | 202.225.4876Aderholt Questions Administration’s Comments on Social Security Payments Calls Misleading and False Comments Surrounding the Debt Ceiling Debate ‘Completely Unacceptable’Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), today released the following statement in response to misleading remarks made today by President Obama regarding the United States’ ability to continue paying Social Security to retirees and disabled Americans: “Today, President Obama said he ‘cannot guarantee that those checks go out on August 3rd if we haven't resolved this issue. Because there may simply not be the money in the coffers to do it,’ this statement is misleading and is wrong and completely unacceptable,” said Aderholt. “As if on cue, the Administration pressed the emergency ‘scare seniors’ button when they feel that spending cuts might win out over tax increases.”“First of all, federal revenue more than covers debt-interest payments, Social Security and Medicare, and pays for our military personnel,” continued Aderholt. “The President is desperately trying to avoid making the tough spending cut decisions on the remaining domestic programs.”“Secondly, the Administration’s false claims and continued use of scare tactics in the media are irresponsible at best. This type of political posturing geared towards scaring senior and disabled citizens who rely upon their social security checks will only further damage the Administration’s self-proclaimed ambition of having an adult conversation on the debt ceiling and spending in Washington,” said Aderholt. “It’s critical we work together to do what’s best for those we serve, Republican and Democrat alike, not misinform them for the benefit of their own political agendas.”Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
07.08.2011	CONTACT | Anne Marie Malecha | 202.225.4876Aderholt Traveling Help Desk to Visit RussellvilleCongressional Staff On-Site to Assist Constituents with Federal CaseworkWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today announced that Field Representative Daniel Tidwell will be in Russellville on Friday, July 15, 2011 to provide assistance to those needing help working with federal agencies. “With a district that stretches across the state, it can be difficult for people to travel to our district offices when they need help,” said Aderholt. “By bringing district staff to local communities, we can effectively assist those who otherwise would be unable to get support. This is an excellent opportunity for folks to come and discuss their issues with Daniel, who will help me begin the process of finding solutions for them.”July 15, 2011 Traveling Help Desk HoursRussellvilleRussellville City Hall9:00 — 11:00 a.m.Congressional offices can help with a variety of federal issues, including Social Security, Veteran’s Affairs and Medicare issues. For a full list of services Congressman Aderholt’s office can assist visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
07.05.2011	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 5, 2011 CONTACT: Anne Marie Malecha (Aderholt), 202.225.4876 Jessica Baker (Smith), 202.225.3951Smith and Aderholt to Administration: Stop Administrative AmnestyWashington, D.C.— Today, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (R-Texas) and Homeland Security Subcommittee Chairman Robert Aderholt (R-Ala.) sent a letter to Secretary Janet Napolitano urging the Obama administration to stop any current or planned actions that would use executive branch authority to grant amnesty to illegal immigrants.The letter follows recent changes made by the Obama administration to Secure Communities, a program intended to identify illegal immigrants in police custody who have been arrested and fingerprinted. The Obama administration’s changes to Secure Communities could open the door to allow millions of illegal immigrants to remain in the United States. Below are excerpts from the letter.“We are concerned that the Obama administration continues to circumvent Congress and use executive branch authority to allow illegal immigrants to remain in the United States. Our concerns have risen to a new level based on the recent issuance of two memos by the Director of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (“ICE”) … Because the decisions of such magnitude must only be made by Congress, we urge you in the strongest terms to ensure that the Department of Homeland Security (“DHS”) halt any current or planned administrative actions that will result in mass legalization of illegal immigrants and that imply immigration law should not be fully enforced.“These memos represent a grossly irresponsible expansion of the use of prosecutorial discretion for the apparent purpose of administrative amnesty. Ultimately, these memos could potentially make millions of deportable illegal and criminal immigrants eligible for administrative amnesty. “We are also concerned that DHS continues to use the excuse of ‘limited resources’ as a justification for its flagrant disregard of the law. The Congress has consistently provided every dollar requested since ICE’s creation for immigration enforcement efforts … We request that ICE utilize the extensive resources available to rigorously enforce the immigration laws of the United States and that ICE’s future budget requests include the funds necessary to effectively support the men and women of ICE in executing their critical mission.”To read the full letter, click here.Background: Two weeks ago, the Director of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), issued two memos to agency officials on how to exercise “prosecutorial discretion,” such as granting deferred action, deciding whom to stop, question, arrest, or detain, and dismissing a removal proceeding. While “prosecutorial discretion” is justified when exercised responsibly, the Obama Administration plans to use this power liberally. The ICE memo ordered agency officials to consider factors such as:ICE’s immigration enforcement priorities. However, ICE has expressed little interest in deporting illegal immigrants who have not yet been convicted of “serious” crimes.The illegal immigrant’s pursuit of education in the United States. The Migration Policy Institute estimates that more than two million illegal immigrants would be eligible for amnesty under the DREAM Act.Whether the illegal immigrant has a U.S. citizen or permanent resident spouse, child or parent; or whether the illegal immigrant or their spouse is pregnant. The Pew Hispanic Center estimates that illegal immigrants have four million U.S.-born and thus U.S. citizen children.The illegal immigrant’s length of presence in the U.S. The Pew Hispanic Center estimates that millions of illegal immigrants have been in the U.S. since the 1990s.Prior to these memos, concerns were raised by the dissemination of a memo last year to the Director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services written by top political and career agency officials. The memo suggested that DHS take steps to legalize literally millions of illegal immigrants. For instance, the memo indicated that DHS could “grant deferred action to an unrestricted number of unlawfully present individuals” and suggested that it grant deferred action to illegal immigrants “who would be eligible for relief under the DREAM Act” or those who have lived in the U.S. since some particular date.###
07.01.2011	CONTACT | Anne Marie Malecha | 202.225.4876Aderholt Statement on America’s IndependenceWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today released the following statement commemorating our Nation’s independence in celebration of the Fourth of July:“Over two hundred and twenty five years ago, British citizens in the American colonies embarked on a course of action that culminated in the formation of the United States of America,” said Aderholt. “In doing so, they established a set of principles and ideals for government that we continue to honor today. They began a call that countless men and women across our nation have answered time and time again since then.”George Washington once said, ‘Every post is honorable in which a man can serve his country.’“From all walks of life, heroes have emerged in the service of our nation. Today we celebrate the freedoms that these heroes – past, present and future – have so valiantly secured. We recognize their service and most importantly, we offer them our thanks,” concluded Aderholt.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
06.28.2011	CONTACT | Anne Marie Malecha | 202.225.4876Aderholt Traveling Help Desk to Visit Guin and HaleyvilleCongressional Staff On-Site to Assist Constituents with Federal CaseworkWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today announced that District Field Director Paul Housel will be in Guin and Haleyville on Friday, July 8, 2011 to provide assistance to those needing help working with federal agencies. “With a district that stretches across the state, it can be difficult for people to travel to our district offices when they need help,” said Aderholt. “By bringing district staff to local communities, we can effectively assist those who otherwise would be unable to get support. This is an excellent opportunity for folks to come and discuss their issues with Paul, who will help me begin the process of finding solutions for them.”July 8, 2011 Traveling Help Desk HoursGuinHaleyvilleGuin City HallHaleyville City Hall 10:00 – 12:00p.m.2:00 – 4:00 p.m. Congressional offices can help with a variety of federal issues, including Social Security, Veteran’s Affairs and Medicare issues. For a full list of services Congressman Aderholt’s office can assist visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
06.22.2011	CONTACT | Anne Marie Malecha | 202.225.4876Aderholt Calls on Senate to Pass FY12 Department of Homeland Security BillClick here to watchWashington, D.C.— Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the House Committee on Appropriations, today gave the following speech on the House regarding the Senate’s inaction to consider H.R. 2017, the Fiscal Year 2012 Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Appropriations bill, that passed in the U.S. House of Representatives 19 days ago.(Remarks as Prepared for Delivery)Mr. Speaker, I rise today to ask one simple question to the other chamber across the Capitol: where is their appropriations bill for the Department of Homeland Security for fiscal year 2012?On June 3rd – some 19 days ago – the House passed its version of an FY12 appropriations bill for DHS—A bill that not only invokes fiscal discipline and needed oversight, but one that also ensures our front line security personnel and homeland security programs are adequately funded for the coming fiscal year.In addition, the House-passed bill includes $1 billion in supplemental funding for FEMA’s disaster relief efforts that is available immediately upon enactment.Sadly, as of today, we have seen absolutely no action from the other body – no plan, no leadership, and no commitment to fiscal discipline, security, or disaster relief.Apparently, the Democrat leadership of the other body believes waiting is what the American people elected them to do – but waiting only puts our security and disaster relief on hold.Mr. Speaker, with the 10th anniversary of the horrific 9/11 attacks only weeks away, disasters occurring all across our country, and the drug war continuing to rage along our border, I believe further delay is unacceptable and irresponsible. That is why the House wasted no time and prioritized funding for security.Mr. Speaker, our country deserves far better.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
06.22.2011	CONTACT | Anne Marie Malecha | 202.225.4876Aderholt Traveling Help Desk to Visit Henagar and GeraldineCongressional Staff On-Site to Assist Constituents with Federal CaseworkWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today announced that Field Representative Ethan Vice will be in Henagar and Geraldine on Friday, June 24, 2011 to provide assistance to those needing help working with federal agencies. “With a district that stretches across the state, it can be difficult for people to travel to our district offices when they need help,” said Aderholt. “By bringing district staff to local communities, we can effectively assist those who otherwise would be unable to get support. This is an excellent opportunity for folks to come and discuss their issues with Ethan, who will help me begin the process of finding solutions for them.”June 24, 2011 Traveling Help Desk HoursHenagarGeraldineHenagar Town HallGeraldine Town Hall 10:00 – 12:00p.m.2:00 – 4:00 p.m. Congressional offices can help with a variety of federal issues, including Social Security, Veteran’s Affairs and Medicare issues. For a full list of services Congressman Aderholt’s office can assist visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
06.22.2011	CONTACT | Anne Marie Malecha | 202.225.4876Aderholt Traveling Help Desk to Visit Vernon and FayetteCongressional Staff On-Site to Assist Constituents with Federal CaseworkWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today announced that District Field Director Paul Housel will be in Vernon and Fayette on Friday, June 24, 2011 to provide assistance to those needing help working with federal agencies. “With a district that stretches across the state, it can be difficult for people to travel to our district offices when they need help,” said Aderholt. “By bringing district staff to local communities, we can effectively assist those who otherwise would be unable to get support. This is an excellent opportunity for folks to come and discuss their issues with Ethan, who will help me begin the process of finding solutions for them.”June 24, 2011 Traveling Help Desk HoursVernonFayetteVernon City HallFayette City Hall 10:00 – 12:00p.m.1:00 – 3:00 p.m. Congressional offices can help with a variety of federal issues, including Social Security, Veteran’s Affairs and Medicare issues. For a full list of services Congressman Aderholt’s office can assist visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
06.02.2011	CONTACT | Anne Marie Malecha | 202.225.4876 Aderholt Statement on Passage of Fiscal Year 2012 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations BillLegislation Delivers Critical Cuts, Targeted Increases and Robust OversightWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the House Committee on Appropriations, today released the following statement after H.R. 2017, the Fiscal Year 2012 Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Appropriations bill, passed the U.S. House of Representatives by 231-188:“Homeland security and fiscal discipline are both clear national priorities, and the bill passed today accomplishes both,” said Aderholt. “H.R. 2017 recognizes that more government and more money does not necessarily equal more security. The bill addresses the continued need for robust national security and disaster recovery, while also considering the unquestioned need for fiscal restraint and prioritizing taxpayers’ limited dollars toward vital security programs that will have an immediate impact on our nation’s safety and security.”“H.R. 2017 fully funds frontline personnel, such as the Border Patrol, CBP officers, ICE agents, Coast Guard military personnel, and Secret Service agents, as well as fully funding all intelligence, watchlisting, and threat targeting functions. It increases disaster relief funds, providing vital resources to help our communities recover from the many recent vicious natural disasters. And finally reforms underperforming programs and implements robust oversight provisions, insisting upon results for each and every taxpayer dollar appropriated going forward. ” “The passage of H.R. 2017 marks a great step toward fiscal responsibility and thank Chairman Rogers for his leadership and commitment to reducing spending and providing an open and transparent appropriations process. I am hopeful my colleagues in the Senate will take swift action and look forward to H.R. 2017’s final passage,” concluded Aderholt. FY 2012 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill Approved Amendment SummaryLaTourette (R-OH) /Pascrell (D-NJ) The amendment increases FEMA state and local firefighter assistance grants by $320 million, offset by a $63.3 million reduction in the Office of the Secretary of DHS, a $117.5 million reduction in the Office of the Undersecretary for Management, and a reduction of $139.2 million reduction in the Office of the Chief Information Officer. The amendment was adopted on a vote of 333-87.Royce (R-CA) The amendment cuts funding in the Office of the Secretary at DHS by $1 million, and increases Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) by $1 million for the 287g program, which helps state and local entities investigate, detain, and arrest aliens on civil and crimi­nal grounds. The amendment passed on a vote of 268-151.Broun (R-GA) The amendment cuts $600,000 from the Office of the Under Secretary for Management, and uses the funds to reduce the deficit. The amendment passed on a voice vote.Poe (R-TX) The amendment increases funding for border security cell phone communications systems by $10 million, offset by a cut to the Office of the Under Secretary for Management. The amendment passed on a vote of 327-93.King (R-IA) The amendment urges Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to remove the "lookout posts" and "spotter locations" located along the border.The amendment was adopted on a voice vote.King (R-IA) The amendment will help preserve the "Shadow Wolves" – Native American Border Protection officers who enforce immigration laws primarily on reservations. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote.Clarke (D-MI) The amendment strikes the provision in the bill that allows certain funds under the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to be targeted to the top 10 highest risk urban areas. The amendment passed on a vote of 273-150.Richardson (CA) The amendment decreased, and then increased, the FEMA Disaster Relief Fund by $100 million in order to highlight the importance of the funding. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote.Honda (D-CA) The amendment strikes language in the legislation prohibiting funds from being used for immigrant integration grants. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote.Sessions (R-TX) The amendment strikes Section 514 of the bill, which prevents commercial activities in the government from competing with the private sector. The amendment passed on a vote of 218-204.Lummis (R-WY) The amendment strikes language that allows the transfer of funds from DHS to the Department of the Interior for environmental mitigation efforts related to border security activities. The amendment passed on a voice vote of 238-177.Carter (R-TX) The amendment prohibits the use of funds in the bill from being used for the Climate Change Adaption Task Force of the Department of Homeland Security. The amendment passed on a vote of 242-180.Poe (R-TX) The amendment prohibits funds from being used in activities contrary to the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote.Poe (R-TX) The amendment prohibits the use of funds to parole an alien into the United States, or grant deferred action of a final order of removal, for any reason other than on a case-by-case basis for urgent humanitarian reasons or significant public benefit. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote.Price (D-NC) –The amendment prohibits funds from being used to enforce requirements for cost sharing, spending restrictions, and program requirements on FEMA’s firefighter grants (SAFER), making the program into an operating subsidy for firefighter retention. The amendment passed on a vote of 264-157.Scalise (LA) The amendment prohibits funds from being used to require an approved Transportation Worker Identification Credential (TWIC) applicant to personally appear at a designated enrollment center for the purpose of TWIC issuance, renewal, or activation. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote.Engel (D-NY) The amendment prohibits funds from being used by DHS to lease or purchase new light duty vehicles except in accordance with Presidential Memorandum-Federal Fleet Performance dated May 24, 2011 – which expands the use of alternative fuel vehicles by the federal government. The amendment was adopted on a voice vote.King (R-IA) The amendment prohibits the use of funds from being made available to various individual entities that may have ties to the group formally known as ACORN. The amendment passed on a vote of 251-168.Cravaak (R-MN) – The amendment prohibits the use of funds in violation of provisions in existing law related to the mandatory detention of criminal aliens. The amendment passed on a vote of 289-131.Amash (R-MI) – The amendment would prohibit funding for political appointees to block, withhold or delay Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests. The amendment passed on a vote of 257-164.
06.01.2011	Aderholt Floor Statement: Department of Homeland Security Appropriations for Fiscal Year 2012(Remarks as Prepared)It is my honor to present the fiscal year 2012 appropriations bill for the Department of Homeland Security.This bill before us today, perhaps more than any other bill, exemplifies the difficult choices that need to be made in order to address our Nation’s fiscal crisis.This bill demonstrates how we can fully fund vital security programs while also reducing spending overall. Furthermore, this bill does not represent a false choice between fiscal responsibility and security – both are national security priorities, and both are vigorously addressed in this bill.I am under no illusion that everyone here today will agree with the spending reductions included in this bill; but now, more than ever, our government needs fiscal discipline, and this bill takes necessary steps toward that goal. Simply put, more money and more government do not equal more security. So, in this time of skyrocketing debt and persistent threats, we must get our homeland security priorities right.The bill before us today provides $40.6 billion dollars in discretionary funding, or almost $3.0 billion, or 7.0 %, below the request, and $1.1 billion, or almost 3.0%, below the fiscal year 2011 level. In addition, the bill includes $1 billion dollars in offset, emergency supplemental funding for FEMA’s Disaster Relief fund immediately upon enactment. There are no earmarks in this bill or the accompanying report.The bill prioritizes funding for our Nation’s greatest security needs – fully funding all frontline personnel such as the Border Patrol, CBP officers, ICE agents, Coast Guard military personnel, and Secret Service agents and fully funding all intelligence, watchlisting, and threat targeting functions.In addition, this bill provides funding where the Administration and DHS have failed.This bill makes up for the nearly $650 million dollar shortfall handed to us by the Department through phony, unauthorized fee collections. It is irresponsible for the Administration to submit a budget based on the illusion that Congress is going to raise taxes or fees in this current economy.This bill also addresses the wholly inadequate request for disaster relief funding and provides the resources to help our communities recover from natural disasters, like the unprecedented flooding across the Mississippi River Valley; the tornadoes that devastated my home State of Alabama a few weeks ago; and the horrific tornado that destroyed much of Joplin, Missouri. However, programs that have been underperforming and failing to execute their budgets or which have repeatedly ignored Congressional directives to measure their results are significantly reduced.In short, this bill prioritizes the taxpayers’ limited dollars towards the security programs that will have an immediate impact upon our Nation’s security and responsibly reduces spending wherever possible. The bill is constructed around three core priorities: fiscal discipline; targeted investments in security operations and disaster relief; and meaningful, hard-hitting oversight.On fiscal discipline, this bill goes further than simple spending cuts. This bill insists upon real reform – reform in how the Department justifies its budget; reform of how FEMA manages its first responder grants; and reform of how FEMA, the Department, and the Administration budget for the costs of disaster relief.On security, this bill includes nearly $150 million dollars worth of targeted investments above the budget request for security operations – the frontline programs that are among the most critical at keeping our Nation secure and those activities that directly countered recent terrorist attacks and address known threats.On disaster relief, I have seen firsthand the devastation of natural disasters over the past few weeks, and I can tell you that my constituents in Alabama are expecting FEMA to get it right. So, this bill picks up from where we left off in fiscal year 2011 and provides an increase of $850 million dollars above the request and within the budget for FEMA’s disaster relief fund to address the known and expected costs of disasters in fiscal year 2012. And, as added unanimously in our full Committee markup of this bill, an additional $1 billion in offset, emergency supplemental funding is provided to FEMA to ensure disaster relief efforts stay on track this year and into fiscal year 2012. Finally, on oversight, our Subcommittee has a long tradition of insisting upon results for each and every taxpayer dollar that is appropriated. This is a testament to the previous leadership of this Subcommittee, as exhibited by the founding Chairman of this Subcommittee, Chairman Rogers, and my predecessor and now the Subcommittee’s Ranking Member, Mr. Price.This bill continues that dedication to frontline security programs and robust oversight by including numerous spend plan requirements; reporting requirements; and operational requirements such as Border Patrol staffing levels and an increase to ICE’s detention capacity.Now, I know there has been some criticism on the funding level this bill is recommending for FEMA's first responder grants. Let me emphasize that not only is there more than $13 billion dollars in the pipeline that has not been spent, but FEMA has yet to establish a credible method for measuring the impact of these grants.So, this bill takes bold steps to get FEMA's fiscal house in order – requiring accountability for every dollar spent, requiring a plan for drawing down the enormous unexpended balances, consolidating duplicative grant programs, prioritizing high risk needs, and rewarding programs like Emergency Management Performance Grants that actually spend their funds wisely and are willing to measure their results.I know how important first responders are to our Nation's preparedness – we all see it every day. But, we simply cannot keep throwing money into a clogged pipeline when our debt is soaring out of control. I believe it's our duty to reform these grant programs.Mr. Chairman, this bill is about prioritizing our limited dollars and robustly supporting the most essential functions. DHS, with all of its critical missions, is not immune from fiscal discipline. That means the Department has to find the most cost effective way to meet its mission requirements – the American people are demanding no less.In closing, let me first thank Ranking Member Price. Although this has certainly been a turbulent year, he has been a Statesman and true partner to work with on this vital bill. I sincerely thank him for his input and contributions.In addition, let me thank the distinguished Chairman and Ranking Member of the full committee, Chairman Rogers and Mr. Dicks. As much as we had to make difficult choices and trade-offs at the Subcommittee level, I know you both have to make much more difficult decisions across all twelve of the Subcommittees.Finally, I’d like to take a moment to thank the Committee staff for their hard work on this bill, namely Stephanie Gupta and Paul Cox on the minority staff, and Jeff Ashford, Kris Mallard, Kathy Kraninger, Miles Taylor, Rebecca Ore, Brian Rell, Mark Dawson, Anne Marie Malecha, and Ben Nicholson on the majority staff.I sincerely believe this bill reflects our best effort to address our Nation’s most urgen
05.31.2011	CONTACT | Anne Marie Malecha | 202.225.4876Aderholt Votes Against Raising the Debt LimitDemands Spending Reductions and Reforms Accompany Any Debt Limit Increase Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the House Committee on Appropriations, today voted against H.R. 1954, a provision to implement the President’s request to increase the debt limit. The measure failed to pass the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 97-318.“If the Administration and Congressional Democrats want us to pay their bills, we need to see a commitment made to making significant spending cuts and immediate reforms to put an end to wasteful Washington spending,” said Aderholt. “Any increase in the debt limit must come with substantial spending cuts and as of today, there are no assurances that continued reductions and reforms will be included.”“House Republicans have made great strides in reducing wasteful Washington spending, since taking control of the House in January. As Chairman of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, I understand the need to reign in government spending firsthand. Later this week, H.R. 2017, the FY12 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations bill is scheduled to be on the House floor, and it is a prime example of the work House Republicans have been doing to be fiscally responsible with taxpayer dollars. H.R. 2017 prioritizes spending to front line operations, cuts underperforming programs and implements reforms to ensure cuts continue in the years to come. House Republicans are making the tough choices to ensure fiscal responsibility every day, it is important that the Administration and others in Congress do the same.”Over the past two years, the Administration and Congressional Democrats have overseen the largest budget deficits in the history of the U.S. Since the President took office, the debt limit has been raised three times for a total increase of $2.979 trillion.“We cannot afford to continue to accommodate this type of spending and move forward with yet another blind increase of the debt limit. To create jobs and save our country from national bankruptcy, we must stop spending money we do not have,” concluded Aderholt.Aderholt currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, sits as a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
05.27.2011	CONTACT | Anne Marie Malecha | 202.225.4876Aderholt Statement on Recovery Efforts 30 Days After Devastating Tornadoes Struck AlabamaOffers Continuing Support and Praise of Local, State, and Federal Agency Coordination and Relief Work on the Ground Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the House Committee on Appropriations that is responsible for funding FEMA, issued the following statement today 30 days after tornadoes swept through Alabama and the Southeast: “As relief and recovery efforts are fully underway in Alabama, devastating tornadoes and floods continue to ravage other parts of the country,” said Aderholt. “My thoughts and prayers remain with the victims of these recent vicious natural disasters and their families.”“Just last week I met with Governor Bentley, Alabama EMA and FEMA officials at the Joint Field Office in Birmingham to discuss the progress of the recovery efforts across the state. Although great progress is being made on the ground, there is no end in sight to the recovery work that’s being done. And as costs estimates, damage reports and disaster relief requests continue to pour in, it’s clear Alabama will be seeking the federal resources necessary to appropriately deal with the worst set of storms the state has seen in 75 years.”“Since meeting with officials in Birmingham, disasters have continued to rage across the Midwest and the South, further confirming the strain being placed on federal disaster resources. This week, back in Washington, I put forth an amendment to the Department of Homeland Security’s Appropriations bill, providing $1 billion in supplemental emergency funds to ensure FEMA’s Disaster Relief fund remains solvent for the rest of this year and recovery efforts are not interrupted, so those affected by these horrific disasters can continue to receive assistance. I’m hopeful my colleagues will join me in supporting this measure and look forward to its final passage in both the House and the Senate in the near future.”“We’re on the road to recovery and we’re on it together. I’m encouraged by the relief efforts that continue on the ground, as well as the coordination between all officials involved in this recovery process. And I know Alabamians strength and resiliency will see us through and will come back, better than ever,” concluded Aderholt.Aderholt, currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.For more information about Aderholt’s work in Congress visit www.aderholt.house.gov.###
05.26.2011	CONTACT | Anne Marie Malecha | 202.225.4876Aderholt Honored By The American Conservative UnionRecognized for Conservative Principles, Values and Voting RecordWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today was recognized by the American Conservative Union’s (ACU) for his commitment to American’s core principles and his steadfast commitment to our nation’s constitution.“It’s a great honor to be named an ACU Conservative for my work in the 111th Congress,” said Aderholt. “I’m proud to have supported strong conservative principles in the last Congress and to continue fighting for traditional American and Alabama values in Washington this Congress.”“The ACU Ratings Award is a reflection of Congressman Aderholt's consistent support of conservative principles on a wide range of issues of concern to grassroots conservatives in 2010,” said ACU Chairman Al Cardenas. “At a challenging time when the fundamental principles of the American system of government are being challenged. Congressman Aderholt stands with those who are trying to preserve those principles.”The American Conservative Union presented the "ACU Conservative" award to Rep. Aderholt for the 111th Congress, 2nd Session, for receiving an ACU Rating of over 80 percent and his consistent conservative voting principles.The American Conservative Union has rated every member of the House and Senate since 1971 and tracks a wide range of issues before Congress to determine which issues and votes serve as a dividing line to help separate those Members of the U.S. House and Senate who protect liberty as conservatives and those who are truly liberal. As a result, the ACU Ratings of Congress has throughout its 38 Editions included a wide variety of issues covering votes on taxes, wasteful government spending, cultural issues, defense and foreign policy.Aderholt, a champion of traditional Alabama values, currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.###
05.18.2011	CONTACT | Anne Marie Malecha | 202.225.4876Aderholt Honored by 60-Plus AssociationLawmaker Lauded for Commitment to Seniors Washington, D.C. — — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), has been awarded the Guardian of Seniors' Rights award by the 60 Plus Association, a national non-partisan organization advocating lower taxes and an adherence to the Constitution.The Guardian Award is presented to Democrats and Republicans in Congress based on their voting record in support of seniors. The 60 Plus Association is a non-partisan seniors advocacy group with a free enterprise, less government, less taxes approach to seniors issues. In an award ceremony in the nation's capital, Martin cited Congressman Aderholt for "his commitment to look out for America's greatest generation as well as the Congressman's promise to always work to preserve Medicare and Social Security for future retirees, our children and grandchildren.Chairman of 60-Plus, Jim Martin said, "We seniors felt we should show our gratitude to dedicated lawmakers like Robert Aderholt who show compassion towards the elderly by pledging to 1) always protect Medicare, 2) always protect Social Security, and 3) just as importantly, to vote against wasteful spending of our tax dollars, excessive spending that has our government now borrowing over 40 cents of every dollar it needs to pay its bills. Seniors have to balance their budgets and so should our government.”Rep. Aderholt has been honored by the group several times before for his work to protect federal programs considered fundamental to senior citizens, including Social Security, Medicare, and a prescription drug benefit for seniors. Aderholt has also been awarded the 60-Plus Benjamin Franklin Award, a recognition given to those who favor a repeal of the death tax."While both programs are running deficits, seniors are not to blame," Martin emphasized. "After all, we seniors have paid into both all our working lives. We've paid our dues but seniors know why deficits face both Medicare and Social Security. For example, Congress raids the annual surpluses from Social Security to pay for other government programs, leaving nothing but trillions of dollars of IOUs.”"Thankfully it’s Members of Congress like Robert Aderholt who show caring concern towards our senior population, the very ones who have sacrificed all these years and who now face uncertain retirements due to the impending bankruptcy of their entitlement programs. Representative Aderholt has also pledged to work hard to halt out of control spending of hard earned tax dollars in order to right our fiscal ship before it sinks from tons of heavy debt.”"On behalf of 7.l million seniors that 60 Plus looks to for support, seniors know you’re in our corner. Congressman Aderholt, you have earned our respect and our appreciation. 60 Plus thanks you," concluded Martin. ###
05.16.2011	CONTACT | Anne Marie Malecha | 202.225.4876ALABAMA REPUBLICANS FIGHT TO REDUCE OBSTACLES TO REBUILDINGTemporary Suspension of the Davis-Bacon Act Would Improve Efficiency, Reduce Regulatory Burden on Efforts to Rebuild in Wake of Devastating StormsWashington, D.C. –The Alabama Republican delegation, led by Congressman Mo Brooks (AL-05), this morning submitted a letter to President Barack Obama requesting the temporary suspension of the Davis-Bacon Act, to remove harmful and oppressive regulations from businesses attempting to rebuild in the wake of last month’s devastating storms. “This temporary suspension is very important to Alabama's recovery,” said Congressman Brooks. “Our communities are hurting, and anything that the Federal government can do to minimize costly and unnecessary government mandates will help get our state back on the road to recovery. Failure to enact a temporary suspension will be costly, delay rebuilding efforts, and unnecessarily prolong the recovery period for Alabama.”“In the wake of the recent storms that swept through Alabama and the Southeast, suspending the Davis-Bacon is critical to the recovery process,” said Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04). “A temporary suspension would mitigate some of the costly and time consuming bureaucratic burdens that will only further delay our state’s recovery.”The letter is supported by Senator Richard Shelby (R-AL), Senator Jeff Sessions (R-AL), Congressman Spencer Bachus (R-AL), Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-AL), Congressman Jo Bonner (R-AL), Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL), and Congressman Martha Roby (R-AL). President Franklin D. Roosevelt, in 1934, set the precedent for temporarily suspending the Davis-Bacon Act. Past Presidents have also suspended the Davis-Bacon Act following natural disasters, such as when President George H. W. Bush did so after Hurricane Andrew in 1993 and President George W. Bush did so after Hurricane Katrina in 2005.Below is a text of the letter. May 16, 2011 President Barack ObamaThe White House1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NWWashington, D.C. 20500Dear Mr. President:We write today to respectfully request that you temporarily suspend the Davis-Bacon Act to aid in the recovery and reconstruction of Alabama after the deadly tornadoes on April 27, 2011. In response to what the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association is calling the largest tornado event in history, you have already declared all 67 Alabama counties as eligible for Public Assistance and 42 Alabama counties as eligible for Individual Assistance through the Federal Emergency Management Association. We request that you further aid the victims of this disaster by issuing an Executive Order to temporarily suspend the enforcement of the Davis-Bacon Act. The Alabama Insurance Commissioner, Jim Ridling, stated that the cost of tornado and storm damage in Alabama could approach $2 billion. In a time of economic uncertainty, the residents of Alabama face formidable obstacles to rebuilding their homes, businesses and communities. We believe that suspension of the Davis-Bacon Act would lower construction costs, permit contracts to be awarded more rapidly and effectively, and dramatically improve the efficiency of rebuilding efforts.President Franklin D. Roosevelt, in 1934, set the precedent for temporarily suspending the Davis-Bacon Act. Past Presidents have also suspended the Davis-Bacon Act following natural disasters, such as when President George H. W. Bush did so after Hurricane Andrew in 1993 and President George W. Bush did so after Hurricane Katrina in 2005. Following historical precedent and suspending the Davis-Bacon Act again in the state of Alabama will significantly contribute to the full recovery of those communities affected by this disaster. Failure to offer this temporary relief will result in unnecessary cost and delay to the rebuilding efforts and unnecessarily prolong the recovery period for Alabama.Thank you for your time and consideration to this request. We look forward to your response.Sincerely,Senator Richard Shelby Senator Jeff Sessions Representative Mo Brooks Representative Spencer Bachus Representative Robert Aderholt Representative Jo Bonner Representative Mike Rogers Representative Martha Roby ###
05.12.2011	CONTACT | Anne Marie Malecha | 202.225.4876Appropriations Committee Releases Fiscal Year 2012 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House Appropriations Committee today released its proposed fiscal year 2012 Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Appropriations bill. The legislation will be marked-up in subcommittee tomorrow, and is among the first Appropriations bills to move to subcommittee this year.Given the importance of providing adequate funding for the safety and security of the nation, as well as the urgent need to reduce spending to rein in the nation’s unprecedented deficits and debt, the legislation makes serious strides to focus funding in areas where it’s most needed, while significantly trimming spending elsewhere. Overall, the FY 2012 Homeland Security Appropriations bill provides $40.6 billion in total non-emergency funding for the various programs and agencies within DHS. This is a decrease of $1.1 billion – or 2.6% – below last year’s level and $3 billion – or 7% – below the President’s request.Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers made the following statement on the legislation:“To address our historic deficit crisis, we must make the most of our limited resources and rein in unnecessary and wasteful spending in virtually every area of government – including homeland security. The Department’s budget has grown at a rapid rate – over 42% since 9/11 – and while it is critical that we maintain crucial measures to keep our nation safe, we must also protect our country from the very real dangers of uncontrolled deficits and debt. This legislation will prioritize funding for frontline operations and programs to uphold the highest level of national security, while trimming back budgets in less essential areas,” Chairman Rogers said.Homeland Security Subcommittee Chairman Robert Aderholt also commented on his bill:“Homeland security and fiscal discipline are national priorities and the FY12 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations bill addresses both,” said Chairman Aderholt. “The recent storms that swept the Southeast and the death of Osama Bin Laden serve as sobering reminders of our nation’s continued need for robust national security and disaster recovery. The bill recognizes the critical importance of the homeland security mission – fully funding all intelligence and watch listing functions, as well as all frontline personnel. The bill also reflects the unquestioned need for fiscal restraint, reduces spending wherever possible, and prioritizes taxpayers’ limited dollars toward the vital security programs that will have an immediate impact on our nation’s safety and security.”Bill Highlights:Savings and Oversight – The misleading and inadequate budget request from the President for DHS overtly underfunded known disaster relief costs of more than $4.9 billion (requesting only $1.8 billion), relied on $650 million in increased revenue from fees that Congress has not approved, and included undefined and unspecified “administrative savings” of more than $803 million. In contrast, the Committee’s legislation ignores these accounting gimmicks and provides real budget savings, better efficiency, and stringent oversight of DHS spending while prioritizing disaster response and the frontline operations that most directly and immediately enhance our national security.The legislation includes major cuts to programs that have underperformed, been ill-managed, or not proven beneficial for the cost. Also, the bill requires numerous expenditure plans from DHS in order to improve its budget justifications and better align funding to tangible security results.FEMA State and Local Grant Reform – The bill includes long-overdue reform of the State and Local Grant program under the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), which has been plagued by inefficiency and has been unable to demonstrate a measurable return on taxpayer investments. These grants often remain in federal coffers for many years – including a current backlog of over $13 billion in unspent funds. To address these challenges, the bill reduces the total grant funding by $2.1 billion, requires increased measurement, reporting, and oversight of existing funds, and permits the Secretary of DHS to issue grants in a competitive, merit-based process to prioritize areas with the highest risk and greatest need – getting the most out of each and every tax dollar.Critical Security Operations and Programs – The Committee’s legislation prioritizes funding for frontline security operations, including personnel, intelligence activities, and the acquisition of selected essential tactical resources. This includes increasing staffing levels of the Border Patrol, Customs and Border Protection (CBP) field operations, Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), Coast Guard, Secret Service, and other essential security personnel. In addition, the bill fully funds all requested increases for intelligence gathering activities, including “watch listing” and threat identification.Earmarks –This bill contains no earmarks, as defined by clause 9(e) of Rule XXI of the House Rules.U.S. Customs and Border Protection – The bill contains $11.8 billion for Customs and Border Protection (CBP) – an increase of $443 million over last year’s level. This funding provides for a total of 21,370 border patrol agents and 21,186 CBP officers, additional training and canine units at ports of entry, $149 million for Inspection and Detection Technology, and $500 million for Air and Marine operations and procurement. The bill increases funding for CBP’s targeting systems by $15 million to enhance the identification of known and suspected terrorists and criminals, and contains a total of $500 million for border security fencing, infrastructure, and technology.Immigration and Customs Enforcement – The bill provides $5.8 billion for Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), which is $35 million above last year’s level. This includes $1.7 billion for domestic investigation programs, $147 million for international enforcement programs, $81 million for the Office of Intelligence, $32.5 million for the Visa Security Program, and an additional $64 million for continued expansion of the Secure Communities program. In addition, the legislation includes $2.7 billion – an increase of $27 million above the President’s request – for ICE detention bed spaces, raising the total number of beds to 34,000, the largest detention capacity in ICE’s history.Transportation Security Administration (TSA)– The bill includes $7.8 billion for the TSA, an increase of $125 million over last year’s level, and $293 million below the President’s request. These funds will be used to sustain the current cap level of 46,000 full time screening personnel, and for explosive detection systems, security enforcement, cargo inspections, Federal Air Marshals, and other TSA activities. The bill also includes an additional $10 million to address air cargo threats. However, the bill does not provide $76 million requested by the President for 275 additional advanced inspection technology (AIT) scanners nor the 535 staff requested to operate them.Coast Guard – The bill contains $10 bi
05.05.2011	CONTACT | Anne Marie Malecha | 202.225.4876Aderholt Sponsors National Day of Prayer Event at the U.S. Capitol“A Mighty Fortress is our God” Service Marks the 60th Anniversary of the Annual Observance Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) and fellow advisory committee members today hosted the 60th annual National Day of Prayer Service at the U.S. Capitol. The National Day of Prayer is an annual observance held on the first Thursday of May, inviting people to pray for America. This year’s observance was themed “A Mighty Fortress is our God.”“Because of the faith of many of our founding fathers, national days of prayer have a long-standing and significant history in American tradition,” said Aderholt. “This nation is great because our founding fathers committed to prayer and the principles of their faith and it’s important for America to remember our heritage.”“In the aftermath of the devastating tornado outbreak that swept the Southeast, particularly in my home state of Alabama, I find great strength in prayer,” added Aderholt. “The National Day of Prayer, couldn’t come at a better time, because when disaster strikes, I believe it’s faith, prayer and togetherness that will see us through.”Speakers at the service included Father Jerome A. Magat, Rabbi Daniel Lapin, Mr. Jared Anderson, Senate Chaplain Barry Black, Justice Paul Newby, Congressman Allen West of Florida, Mrs. Elizabeth Dole, Captain Ryan Voltin, Ambassador Roberto Saladin Selin of the Dominican Republic, Brig General Howard Stendahl, Ms. Ginny Owens and Dr. and Mrs. James Dobson of “Focus On The Family”, an organization committed to helping families thrive.The National Day of Prayer was officially created in 1952 by a joint resolution of the United States Congress, and signed into law by President Harry S. Truman. Every president since 1952 has signed a National Day of Prayer proclamation.Aderholt, a champion of traditional Alabama values, currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.###
05.04.2011	CONTACT | Anne Marie Malecha | 202.225.4876Aderholt Supports Legislation to End Taxpayer Funded AbortionsBill Establishes Permanent, Government-Wide Prohibition of Taxpayer Subsidies for Abortion Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), issued the following statement today after H.R. 3, the “No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act,” passed in the United States House of Representatives by a vote of 251-175:“With the devastation and destruction that swept the South last week, we are reminded of how precious life is,” said Aderholt. “I believe protection of unborn life is a universal issue that has become one of the most unifying causes over the past several decades. Our founding fathers strongly believed that human beings are created equal and are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights, among which is the right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. Therefore, the right to life of each human being should be preserved and protected by every human in our great nation.”The “No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act” (HR 3) codifies the Hyde Amendment by permanently prohibiting taxpayer funding of abortion across all federal programs. Aderholt is an original cosponsor of this legislation.Aderholt, a champion of traditional Alabama values, currently serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the powerful House Appropriations Committee, is a member of the Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science; and Agriculture Subcommittees, and also serves on the Helsinki Commission.###
04.30.2011	CONTACT | Anne Marie Malecha | 202.225.4876 Aderholt Tours Tornado Damage, Supports Relief Efforts of All Affected Alabama CommunitiesEncourages Efforts to be Focused on All Impacted Areas; Particularly Alabama’s Hard Hit Small and Rural Communities Washington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security for the House Committee on Appropriations, issued the following statement today after spending the last two days surveying storm damage across North Alabama, meeting with relief effort officials and learning of Department of Homeland Security Secretary Napolitano and five other Cabinet Members brief fly-in stop in Birmingham tomorrow:“These storms have brought an unprecedented amount of damage and devastation to North and central Alabama,” said Aderholt. “The Governor and state and local EMA officials have done a tremendous job in the preparation for the storm, and then the search and rescue portion of the aftermath. This is not a Katrina situation; the Governor was prepared and local EMA officials acted with unparalleled cooperation and coordination.”“As we transition from the response to the recovery phase, Secretary Napolitano and FEMA Administrator Fugate have an opportunity to shine and to demonstrate what they have been telling me for months—that the Department of Homeland Security and FEMA are prepared not to make the mistakes of the past. FEMA has the professionals necessary to get the job done, but it will take real leadership to ensure that it is done quickly,” added Aderholt.Unlike previous tests FEMA has faced in the current administration, the greatest amount of damage from this natural disaster has occurred in rural areas. Given that small towns are spread further apart and have fewer resources than their more urban counterparts in Birmingham and Tuscaloosa, the response phase presents particular challenges.“After personally meeting with Administrator Fugate earlier this week, I am confident FEMA is up to the challenge and will work diligently to restore a sense of normalcy to Alabamians, particularly those in our state’s rural communities,” added Aderholt.“With Congress being out of session the last week, Aderholt spent the last few days traveling from the Mississippi to Georgia state lines, surveying damage in the tornado-ravaged communities of Alabama’s Fourth Congressional District, personally witnessing damage, meeting with victims and emergency management officials in Cullman, DeKalb, Franklin, Marion, Marshall, along with Jefferson and Tuscaloosa Counties. “What strikes me is that I hear the same thing at every stop, regardless of the amount of devastation,” said Aderholt. “The people of Alabama are not sitting and waiting for the government to get the job done. Instead there are neighbors helping neighbors and strangers helping strangers get on the path of placing their lives back in order. As well as, churches providing food and shelter to communities large and small. Because of these efforts, FEMA in conjunction with the state EMA assets will have a great leg up in dealing with this disaster.”Given the magnitude of the storm and geographic breadth covered, Aderholt called for patience during the recovery phase as Alabama Power, TVA, AT&T and other local utility providers work to restore service.To begin the process of receiving federal assistance for disaster relief and recovery, those in need must first register with the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) by calling 1.800.621.FEMA (3362) or by visiting www.DisasterAssistance.gov. For additional useful disaster relief resources, visit Aderholt’s website www.aderholt.house.gov. ###
04.28.2011	CONTACT | Anne Marie Malecha | 202.225.4876 Aderholt Statement on Devastating Alabama TornadoesStrong Storms Ravish the State, President Declares State of EmergencyWashington, D.C. — Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) issued the following statement today after surveying storm damage in Cullman County with Governor Bentley and other officials:“My thoughts and prayers are with all of those who have been affected by yesterday’s devastating storms,” said Aderholt. “I am deeply saddened by the devastation, destruction, and loss of life that has been suffered.”“These unprecedented storms demand unprecedented cooperation between our local, state and federal partners and I commend all of the agencies, response teams, and individuals who are involved in these efforts,” continued Aderholt. “Thanks to swift action by Governor Bentley, President Obama has issued a Federal declaration for the State of Alabama, authorizing federal resources to assist the State in its response efforts.”“The damage and destruction, I’ve witnessed across the 4th Congressional District is devastating and widespread,” said Aderholt. And although relief efforts are underway, this was no small storm and the road ahead is long, so we must be patient. I’ll continue surveying the communities that have been affected by the storms and working with my delegation colleagues to ensure relief efforts have the full support and resources of the federal government.”“This is a time when we need to come together,” added Aderholt. “Alabama is great, because of the resiliency of its people. I urge everyone to open your hearts and your homes to friends and neighbors in need. I know Alabamians are strong folks and though our communities have suffered great loss, we will come back from this, better than ever.”For useful disaster relief resources, visit my website, I will continue to provide the most up-to-date information as more details become available.###
04.28.2011	Congress of the United StatesAlabama Congressional DelegationApril 28, 2011 Members of Alabama's congressional delegation unanimously supported Governor Robert Bentley's request for an expedited federal disaster declaration in the wake of widespread tornado destruction in the state.The delegation sent a letter to President Obama Wednesday night in support of a disaster declaration under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, which authorizes the use of federal resources for emergency response and recovery efforts."The State of Alabama was struck by a series or tornadoes so devastating that they are already being termed as among the worst in our state's history," the letter stated.Approval of the request was confirmed late Wednesday night during a telephone call between the President and the Governor.The bipartisan letter was signed by Alabama's two Senators and all seven House members. ###
04.14.2011	Contact: Brian Rell (202) 225-4876 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today issued the following statement regarding the Continuing Resolution for FY2011. This legislation contains historic spending cuts of nearly $40 billion – the largest single non-defense cut in history and will fund the nation’s military and federal government operations for the remainder of the 2011 fiscal year.The floor statement by Congressman Aderholt on the final CR follows: “Mr. Speaker, as many have said here today, our government has a spending problem and the American people are demanding we find a solution. This bill before us today is a step toward finding that solution.“This bill is truly historic – containing discretionary spending cuts that are nearly five times larger than any other cut in history.“The Homeland Security title of this CR strikes the right balance between funding priority programs that are essential to our Nation’s security and keeping our discretionary spending in check. In fact, this bill marks the first time the annual discretionary budget for the Department of Homeland Security has been reduced from the previous fiscal year.“This CR provides a total of $41.75 billion in discretionary funding for the Department of Homeland Security. This funding level is $784 million dollars, or 1.8%, below FY 2010, and $1.89 billion, or 4.3%, below the President’s FY 2011 request.“And, in contrast to previous annual spending bills, this CR provides funding for the actual costs of disasters from within the existing budget. So, rather than relying upon an emergency supplemental to fund the disaster relief fund the White House was maneuvering for, the CR responsibly addresses the shortfall in disaster relief costs the President failed to address in his FY 2011 budget request. Supporting the cost of security demands truth-in-budgeting, and this Congress is delivering where the President and OMB have failed. “Having said that, DHS is not immune from fiscal discipline, and underperforming programs have been significantly cut in this CR. By implementing these cuts, we are not choosing between homeland security and fiscal responsibility — both are serious national security issues that must be dealt with immediately. And, through a series of tough choices, and reasonable agreements with the Senate, this CR achieves both.“That is precisely why this CR also includes sufficient funding to sustain the critical operations at front line agencies, such as CBP, Coast Guard, ICE, Secret Service, TSA, and the Department’s intelligence office."Mr. Speaker, homeland security is far too important to be subject to budget gimmicks and inadequate justifications. The homeland security title of this CR responsibly funds programs vital to our Nation’s security and will help get our federal budget on track.” ###
04.08.2011	Contact: Brian Rell(202)-225-4876 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today issued the following statement regarding the decision by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to stay at the Etowah County Detention Center (ECDC).“ICE made the decision to preserve their presence at Etowah County Detention Center when we sat down with the ICE officials in Washington and explained Sheriff Entrekin and the employees of the ECDC run a very tight, cost effective operation. I want to emphasize what Director Morton told me – it was the affordable, high quality service provided by Etowah County.The turn of events occurred after a meeting in Congressman Robert Aderholt’s office when the Sheriff discussed the merits of ECDC with Gary Mead, the head of Enforcement and Removal Operations for ICE. Less than a week later Director Morton reached out to Congressman Aderholt to let his decision to retain the services of ECDC be known.“Director Morton should be commended for breaking through the bureaucratic hurdles to utilize the lowest cost and highest value option which is the Etowah facility,” Congressman Aderholt said. “The Etowah County detention facility is a window by which I can see first-hand and hear from people I trust on how ICE operates and performs.”This decision came after several months of meetings between the Etowah County Sheriff’s Office, the Alabama congressional delegation and ICE. In addition to Sheriff Todd Entrekin’s effort, the Etowah County state legislative delegation along with the County Commission was active in pursing solutions for the detention facility as well. It was a team effort by everyone. ###
04.07.2011	Contact: Brian Rell (202) 225-4876 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today issued the following statement regarding the need for a Continuing Resolution to avert a government shutdown.“This one week Continuing Resolution is a necessary step in getting our Nation’s fiscal house in order.“The other chamber and the White House have refused to engage in serious spending reductions. Instead of passing a sensible spending plan that demonstrates acceptance of the financial reality that we cannot fund everything, the other body instead would rather fund nothing thereby allowing the government to shut down.“Instead of providing solutions, some in Washington instead insult and belittle those who want to rein in government spending in a reasonable way.“There are some that deride the Tea Party. Let me tell you that calling someone a “Tea Partier” is not an insult – it is an honor. To me it means that you are not willing to accept spending in Washington as it was, it means that you are not willing to accept the status-quo and say one thing during the campaign season but not make the tough choices when legislating, it means that you do not believe that we can spend our way to prosperity and job creation.“So, absent a plan from the other body, we have no choice but to press forward with this bill, further reduce spending, and ensure our brave military men and women have the tools and resources they need to keep our Nation safe.” ###
03.07.2011	Contact: Brian Rell (202) 225-4876ADERHOLT APPEARS AT EXXEL OUTDOORS, INC EVENT WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) appeared today at Exxel Outdoors, Inc. on for a ribbon cutting ceremony and tour of the facility. The event was held at the Exxel Outdoors, Inc. factory in Haleyville, AL.Congressman Robert Aderholt submitted H.R. 913 the Free and Fair Trade Act on Thursday in the House of Representatives that would protect sleeping bag manufacturing jobs at Exxel from unfair competition overseas. The legislation, a companion bill to S. 433 introduced by Senator Jeff Sessions (R-AL), would modernize and reauthorize the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) through 2012, along with the Andean Trade Preference Act.Other suppliers of sleeping bags and manufacturing companies would benefit from this bill in South Carolina, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Mississippi, New York and New Jersey, among others. “It was an honor to cut the ribbon on the fourth manufacturing line at Exxel Outdoors, Inc. Their continued success proves that U.S. workers can compete in the global market,” said Congressman Aderholt. The event allowed the Congressman to witness production after cutting the ribbon on the fourth manufacturing line. ###
03.03.2011	Contact: Brian Rell (202) 225-4876ADERHOLT INTRODUCES FREE AND FAIR TRADE ACT WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) submitted a bill in the House of Representatives that would correct trade rules to help the domestic textile manufacturing industry. The legislation, a companion bill to S. 433 introduced by Senator Jeff Sessions (R-AL) would modernize and reauthorize the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) through 2012, along with the Andean Trade Preference Act.“This bill will keep jobs in America and ensure that companies like Exxel Outdoors, Inc. are able to compete on an even playing field with international industries who aren’t subject to the same taxes,” said Congressman Aderholt. “During a time of record unemployment, it is important that we do more to save jobs in Alabama and America, including ensuring that our trade policy is fair for local manufacturing companies. ”The GSP is a system of trade rules designed to promote economic growth in the developing world by providing preferential duty-free entry for about 4,800 products from over 130 designated beneficiary countries and territories. To protect the domestic industry, textiles are not included in GSP. However, there is a loophole in the law that does not recognize sleeping bags as a textile under GSP, making them eligible to receive duty-free benefits from developing countries.“Exxel began moving its sleeping bag production operations from China to Alabama in 2005, and now produces 80% of its bags in Alabama. It also moved some operations from Mexico to Haleyville, proving that U.S. workers can compete in the global market,” said Congressman Aderholt. Harry Kazazian purchased the Exxel Outdoors, Inc. factory when it was on the cusp of shutting down in 2000, then hired back its employees to re-open. They now produce over 2 million sleeping bags per year in Haleyville, accounting for about 30 percent of the U.S. sleeping bag market.###
03.01.2011	Contact: Brian Rell (202) 225-4876Congressman Robert Aderholt RecievesNAM Manufacturing Legislative Excellence AwardWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) has been awarded the “Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence” by the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM). The National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) is the largest manufacturing association in the United States, representing manufacturers in every industrial sector and in all 50 states and is an affiliate of the Business Council of Alabama.“Our manufacturing industry is extremely important to me and all Americans because it provides vital jobs and I’m honored to receive this recognition,” said Congressman Aderholt. “This award reinforces the work I am doing in Washington to create jobs and opportunity for the people of North Alabama.”Congressman Aderholt was presented with this award in Arab, Alabama at an event sponsored by NAM member Syncro Corporation, on February 28th. “On behalf of Syncro Corporation and our employees, I thank Congressman Aderholt for championing the causes that will help manufacturers thrive in Alabama and across the United States,” said Syncro President and CEO Ed Childress.“The Award is a non-partisan indicator to help manufacturers and their employees sort out the true allies of manufacturing based on their votes on key issues that affect the manufacturing economy, jobs and U.S. competitiveness,” said NAM president and CEO Jay Timmons. “Congressman Aderholt supports common-sense polices that will enable manufacturers to create and maintain good high-paying jobs in Alabama and throughout America.” ####
02.11.2011	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 226-7602CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT STATEMENT ON THE FY2011 CR AND HOMELAND SECURITY FUNDINGAderholt: “This CR strikes the right balance between our country’s two greatest needs: security and fiscal responsibility”WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-AL), Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, made the following statement on the Homeland Security funding in the House Appropriations Committee’s Continuing Resolution (CR) for fiscal year 2011. In the bill, a total of $41.5 billion in discretionary funding is provided for the Department of Homeland Security. The funding total is $1.0 billion below FY2010 and $2.1 billion below the President’s FY11 request.“The spending cuts in this CR will not be easy, but they are long overdue and necessary to address what has become a national emergency – our out-of-control federal spending.”“The $41.5 billion included in this CR for the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) strikes the right balance between our country’s two greatest needs: security and fiscal responsibility. Funding provided by this CR will sustain the operations and personnel at DHS’s front line agencies, such as Customs and Border Protection, Coast Guard, and Immigration and Customs Enforcement, and support the Department’s critical intelligence and information sharing programs.” “This CR also provides funding for the costs of known and expected disasters for the remainder of the year from within the existing budget to make up for a $1.6 billion shortfall that the President failed to address in his fiscal year 2011 budget request.”“Homeland security is far too important to be supported by budget gimmicks, borrowed money, and inadequate justifications. The Homeland Security title of this CR responsibly supports the programs that are absolutely vital to our Nation’s security and does its part to restore our budget to sustainability. DHS is not immune from fiscal discipline. By implementing these cuts, we are not choosing between homeland security and fiscal responsibility – both are serious national security issues that must be dealt with immediately and I look forward to promoting the same type of fiscal responsibility while considering the FY2012 budget.”####
01.28.2011	Contact: Darrell "DJ" Jordan202-225-4876CONGRESSMAN ROBERT ADERHOLT STATEMENT ON THE VIOLENCE IN ALBANIAWashington, DC - Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Alabama) today issued the following statement on the unrest and violence erupting during protests in Albania.“The United States is a good friend of Albania. Over the past decade, the U.S. Congress worked to ensure Albania’s successful inclusion into the NATO Alliance. I have supported Albania and the efforts of its people to strengthen their democratic institution and adhere to the rule of law.”“I oppose any use of violence against democratic and legitimate institutions. Democracy and the rule of law are not served by violence and power cannot be legitimately taken in the streets. All grievances and disputes must be addressed within legitimate institutions through dialogue and in accordance with the law."“I believe it would be helpful to have a full investigation into what happened during the January 21st demonstration. Today, I reiterate the call made by others to avoid further acts of violence. My hope is that the Albanian political leaders will choose to work for the future of the Albanian people through dialogue within recognized institutions. Only with a return to calmer political discourse can Albania move forward to full European integration.”International peace and human rights are issues that Congressman Aderholt has worked on for over a decade. In July, Congressman Aderholt was reelected as Vice Chair of the General Committee on Democracy, Human Rights and Humanitarian Questions during the 19th Annual Session of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe Parliamentary Assembly (OSCE PA) in Oslo, Norway. As vice chair of the committee, Congressman Aderholt helps to set the agenda on democracy and human rights issues before the Parliamentary Assembly. The Assembly helps steer the policy direction of the OSCE in monitoring and encouraging the 56 participating states to comply with international commitments on security, economic issues and human rights.Congressman Aderholt participates in the Parliamentary Assembly as a member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. The Helsinki Commission is an independent agency of the U.S. Government charged with monitoring compliance with the Helsinki Accords and advancing comprehensive security through promotion of human rights, democracy, and economic and military cooperation in 56 countries, including Albania. Aderholt has been a member of the Commission since 2001.####
01.24.2011	Contact: Darrell "DJ" Jordan202-225-4876ADERHOLT SPEAKS AT TODAY’S “MARCH FOR LIFE” RALLYAderholt Co-Sponsors Bill To Prohibit Abortion Funding As A Result of New Healthcare LawWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today spoke to thousands of pro-life Americans who took part in the annual March For Life in Washington DC. Saturday, January 22nd marked the 38th anniversary of Roe v. Wade, the US Supreme Court decision that established a woman's right to terminate a pregnancy. The March For Life began in 1974 as a protest of that Roe v. Wade court decision and the yearly “march” has grown from 20,000 passionate pro-lifers in 1974 to more than about 200,000 today.“Protection of unborn life is a universal issue that has become one of the most unifying causes over the past several decades,” said Congressman Aderholt. “The founding fathers strongly believed that human beings are created equal and are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights, among which is the right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. Therefore, the right to life of each human being should be preserved and protected by every human in our great nation.”On Thursday, January 20th, Congressman Aderholt co-sponsored the “No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act” (HR 3). This legislation would codify the Hyde Amendment by permanently prohibiting taxpayer funding of abortion across all federal programs. Congressman Aderholt continued, “The healthcare legislation that was signed into law in 2010 does not protect the unborn because the bill in no way included clear and direct provisions that would prohibit federal funding of abortions. The Executive Order from the President on abortion didn’t resolve the issue because of the many legal obstacles in place due to precedents set by the Supreme Court ruling of Roe v. Wade. In addition, Executive Orders can be undone or modified as quickly as they are created by the signature of the President at any time. So, that’s why I believe the “No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act” is necessary.”####The video of Aderholt's short speech can be found here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2uRRBCCDtHw
01.19.2011	Contact: Darrell "DJ" Jordan202-225-4876ADERHOLT STATEMENT ON THE VOTE TO REPEAL THE HEALTHCARE LAWWASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) issued the following statement after voting for repeal of the job-destroying healthcare law. The bill passed the House by a vote of 245 to 189.“In November, the American people sent a clear message to Washington to repeal and reject liberal policies like Obamacare, and that’s exactly what House Republicans intend to do.”“Tonight, the House of Representatives made a strong statement in support of limited government and against an intrusive expansion of government. We all want healthcare to be available to the greatest extent possible, but the execution and policy of what was pushed by the President and by Speaker Pelosi is flat-out wrong. Instead of supporting the patient-doctor relationship and lowering the cost of healthcare, the law has put the patient decision-making power in Washington and resulted in higher healthcare costs. Instead of helping the economy, it has created more uncertainty for our job creators. Instead of helping small businesses, this law has punished small business owners with more mandates, new taxes and administrative burdens.”“The President’s healthcare law threatens the existence of private health insurance plans and creates new federal bureaucracies, boards, and commissions in an industry that is responsible for one-sixth of our economy. Not only do I support the repeal of this law, I plan on working with my colleagues in Congress to start over and consider common-sense patient-focused solutions that will not harm the economy and destroy jobs.”#### BACKGROUND: Congressman Aderholt has opposed the President's healthcare plan since the summer of 2009, but also co-sponsored an alternative solution in July of 2009, called the "Empowering Patients First Act" (H.R. 3400). CLICK HERE to learn more about this bill.
01.07.2011	Contact: Darrell "DJ" Jordan202-226-7602CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT NAMED CHAIRMAN OF HOMELAND SECURITY SUBCOMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONSAderholt To Lead Homeland Security Subcommittee On The 10-year Anniversary of 9/11WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) was selected today to be Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security.“I am extremely honored to have been appointed Chairman of this vitally important Appropriations Subcommittee, especially at a time in our history when America’s security is being threatened more than ever before,” said Aderholt. “Coming up on the ten-year anniversary of 9/11, the matters facing our nation’s intelligence community and law enforcement agencies are significant. Nothing proves this more than the fact that the United States experienced more terrorist attacks and plots over the last 14 months than any period since 9/11.”Aderholt continued, “Because our homeland security faces more threats than ever, it is unacceptable that Congress did not complete a bill last year. Therefore, one of my top goals will be to produce a comprehensive piece of legislation that responsibly and effectively addresses the needs of our homeland security operations. In addition, I plan on focusing on proper oversight and accountability, while making sure that our funding priorities yield results that enhance our national security. I also believe that it’s important for us to listen to voters and balance the need for spending on security with the need for fiscal discipline in light of out-of-control government spending.” Appropriations Committee Chairman Rep. Hal Rogers (R-KY) announced today that the House Republican Steering Committee had approved Chairmanship assignments for Rep. Aderholt and 11 other Committee Chairmen for the 112th Congress. The entire Republican conference is expected to confirm the selection next week.“Over the last 7 years, the Department of Homeland Security has labored through the largest reorganization of the Federal government since the establishment of the Pentagon, and I am confident that Chairman Aderholt can effectively lead this Subcommittee and hold DHS accountable,” said Chairman Rogers. “I look forward to working with Chairman Aderholt as he leads an aggressive oversight agenda that will ensure DHS produces real results for the safety and security of our Nation.”Aderholt will assume the Chairmanship of the Subcommittee formerly chaired and led on the Republican side by Rogers, who is the new Chairman of the full Appropriations Committee. In 2003, Rogers was appointed to be the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security in the first year of its existence. Aderholt will be the Subcommittee’s 2nd Republican Chairman in its history.In addition to being named Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee, Aderholt will serve another term on the Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee, and for the first time, will serve on the Agriculture Subcommittee.The Subcommittee on Homeland Security is the funding subcommittee for the operations of the Department of Homeland Security, which includes the following components: Customs and Border Protection, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), Citizenship and Immigration Services, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Transportation Security Administration (TSA), U.S. Coast Guard, Secret Service, National Protection and Programs Directorate, and several other supporting agencies. This Subcommittee manages about $50 billion of spending within the annual federal budget.DHS was created in 2002 by the Homeland Security Act of 2002, in the aftermath of the September 11 attacks and subsequent release of Anthrax spores. The establishment of DHS was the largest federal government reorganization since the Department of Defense was created via the National Security Act of 1947.####
01.05.2011	Contact: Darrell "DJ" Jordan202-226-7602CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT SWORN IN TO 112TH SESSION OF CONGRESSAderholt Takes Historic Oath of Office With The First Bible Ever Printed In AmericaWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today was officially sworn in to represent the 4th Congressional District of Alabama for another term on the official first day of the 112th Session of Congress. The new Speaker of the House, John Boehner, conducted an individual ceremonial swearing-in for Rep. Aderholt, with his wife and children attending, in the Capitol following the oath of office for all Members on the floor of the House of Representatives. “I am extremely honored to be given the opportunity to represent the people of the 4th District for another session. This job is a special privilege and I don’t take this great responsibility lightly,” said Congressman Aderholt. “The Congress and the city of Washington have changed since I was first elected, but the values of the great state of Alabama have not. My colleagues in the Alabama delegation and I are committed to the principles of smaller, more accountable government and we are looking forward to focusing on issues like creating jobs, reining in spending and making Congress more responsive to the people.”Aderholt’s swearing-in ceremony was historic in that he took his official oath-of-office on the very first Bible ever printed in America. This Bible, widely known as the “Eliot Bible,” was published in Cambridge, Massachusetts, in 1663 under the title “The Holy Bible Containing the Old Testament and the New.” Aderholt was the only Member of the full 435 House of Representatives body to use the Eliot Bible for his/her oath of office. The text of this Bible was translated into the Algonquian Indian language by John Eliot, to support his missionary efforts among Native Americans. The first complete English language edition of the Bible was published in 1782 by Robert Aitken in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The Eliot Bible is currently held in the Rare Book & Special Collections Division of the Library of Congress in Washington D.C.During the previous Congress (the 111th Session of Congress), Aderholt served as the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Legislative Branch, and a member of the Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee within the Appropriations Committee. Rep. Aderholt also served on the House Budget Committee and the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe (better known as the Helsinki Commission). With the change in control of the House of Representatives, Congressman Aderholt is expected to be named a Subcommittee Chairman for the first time in his career. A decision on which subcommittee within the Appropriations Committee he will chair is expected soon. All decisions for Appropriations Subcommittee Chairmanship must be approved by the House Steering Committee.During November’s historic election, Republicans picked up 63 seats in the House of Representatives, giving them the majority. Republicans now hold a 49-seat majority over Democrats.####From Left To Right: Speaker John Boehner, Robert Hayes Aderholt (son), Caroline Aderholt (wife), Congressman Robert Aderholt and Mary Elliott Aderholt (daughter)
12.07.2010	Contact: Darrell "DJ" Jordan202-226-7602ADERHOLT PRESSURES CHINA TO RELEASE NOBEL PEACE PRIZE WINNER AND CHANGE HUMAN RIGHTS PRACTICESMembers of Congress Speak Out Against China During Press ConferenceWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today joined several Members of Congress and human rights activists in honoring Chinese dissident and Nobel Peace Prize winner Liu Xiaobo and calling on the Chinese government to release him from jail before the December 10th Nobel Ceremony.The Congressional Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, whom Congressman Aderholt is a member, hosted a press conference today to highlight a resolution (H.Res. 1717) to be voted on today in Congress that congratulates Xiabo on his Nobel prize and "honors Liu Xiaobo's promotion of democratic reform in China.”Aderholt was joined by the likely incoming Foreign Affairs Committee Chairwoman, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Reps. James McGovern (D-MA), Rep. Frank Wolf (R-VA), Rep. David Wu (D-OR), Rep. Joseph Pitts (R-PA) and Rep. Chris Smith (R-NJ).“I commend the courage of the Nobel Peace Prize selection committee for awarding the prize to Liu Xiaobo,” said Congressman Aderholt. “But most of all, we honor Liu Xiaobo and the many other courageous individuals in China who have spoken out and continue to speak up for peaceful, positive changes in China.”In October, Chinese dissident Liu Xiaobo was awarded the 2010 Nobel Peace Prize for his work in promoting peace in China and around the World. Liu was a leader in the 1989 Tiananmen Square demonstrations for democratic reform in China. Dr. Liu was also one of the authors of Charter 08, a historic manifesto that calls on the Chinese Communist Party to abandon authoritarian rule in favor of democracy, the guarantee of human rights, and the rule of law. Liu was taken into custody shortly before the manifesto was released, and in December 2009, following what was widely regarded as an unfair trial, he was sentenced to 11 years in prison for inciting subversion of state power. Chinese authorities have dismissed calls for Liu’s release and have obstructed efforts by Liu’s family members to travel to Oslo, Norway to represent Liu in receiving the Nobel Peace Prize on December 10th. Dr. Liu’s wife is currently under house arrest. In addition, Chinese authorities have launched a global campaign to pressure other countries not to send diplomatic representation to the Nobel Peace Prize ceremony. Some countries have already bowed to Chinese pressure to boycott the Nobel Ceremony, including Russia, Kazakhstan, Colombia, Tunisia, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, Serbia, Iraq, Iran, Vietnam, Afghanistan, Venezuela, the Philippines, Egypt, Sudan, Ukraine, Cuba and Morocco.Aderholt continued, “Liu is representative of the thousands of Chinese dissidents that remain languishing in prison due to their political or religious beliefs. Chinese authorities continue to crackdown on Protestant Christians, Catholics, Tibetan Buddhists, Muslim Uyhgurs and members of the Falun Gong for exercising their religious beliefs. If China wants to be seen as a responsible stakeholder in the international community, it must take measurable steps to improve its abysmal human rights record.” International human rights is an issue that Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-AL) has worked on for over a decade with the Helsinki Commission and the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission.The mission of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission is to promote, defend and advocate internationally recognized human rights norms in a nonpartisan manner, both within and outside of Congress. The Commission is named after former Congressman Tom Lantos (D-CA), who served in Congress from 1981 until he died in 2008 from cancer. Lantos, who was the only Holocaust survivor to have served in the U.S. Congress, remained very involved in human rights issues and co-founded the Congressional Human Rights Caucus in 1983.The Helsinki Commission is an independent agency of the U.S. Government charged with monitoring compliance with the Helsinki Accords and advancing comprehensive security through promotion of human rights, democracy, and economic, environmental and military cooperation in 56 countries. Rep. Aderholt has been a member of the Commission since 2001 and is currently the vice-chairman of the Human Rights Committee of the Helsinki Commission’s Parliamentary Assembly.####Congressman Aderholt speaks at a press conference honoring Chinese Nobel Peace Prize winner Liu Xiaobo and calling on the Chinese government to release him from jail.
10.07.2010	Contact: Darrell "DJ" Jordan202-225-4876 CONGRESSMAN ROBERT ADERHOLT STATEMENT ON THE PRESIDENT’S VETO OF HIS NOTARIZATION BILLWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-AL) today issued the following statement after the President vetoed his bill, the “Interstate Recognition of Notarizations (IRON) Act of 2010” (HR 3808).“There is absolutely no connection whatsoever between the Interstate Recognition of Notarizations Act of 2010 and the recent foreclosure documentation problems. I first introduced this legislation in April of 2005, and obviously there was no concern about weakening the foreclosure documentation process at that time. This is a bill that would help people and I am disappointed that it was vetoed.” “My legislation would improve interstate commerce by requiring that documents be recognized in any state or federal court. It would help court reporters, attorneys, business owners, and consumers in general.” “The bill expressly requires lawful notarizations, and in no way validates improper notarizations. Enforcement of legal notarizations is a state responsibility and I fully support each state attorney general vigorously prosecuting all notarization fraud.”“I believe the fears about this bill have resulted from misunderstanding, and I am eager to get another version of this bill completed and passed in November, with the support of the White House, the Senate, and the House. This bill has strong bipartisan support and I hope that the White House will work with Congress to educate the public and answer any concerns so that this legislation can become law.”The bill was introduced by Congressman Aderholt on Wednesday, October 14, 2009, it passed the House on Tuesday, April 27, 2010 and the Senate on Monday, September 27, 2010. Congressman Aderholt had previously introduced the legislation during the 110th and 109th Congress. The bill passed the House of Representatives during those Congressional sessions but was not taken up by the Senate.This legislation would have required that documents be recognized in any state or federal court if the subject affects interstate commerce and the document is duly notarized by seal or if a seal is tagged to an electronic document. Currently, each state is responsible for regulating its notaries. Typically, someone who wishes to become a notary pays a fee, submits an application and takes an oath of office. Some states require applicants to enroll in an educational course, pass an exam, and obtain a notary bond. This legislation does not change how the individual states regulate notaries in any manner. ####
10.04.2010	Contact: Darrell "DJ" Jordan202-225-4876CONGRESSMAN ROBERT ADERHOLT RECEIVES HEALTHCARE LEADERSHIP AWARDWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) has been named a “Champion of Healthcare Innovation” by the Healthcare Leadership Council in Washington D.C. The Healthcare Leadership Council (HLC) is a coalition of leaders and chief executives of the nation’s premier health care companies and organizations.“Our healthcare industry is extremely important to me and all Americans because it impacts every man, woman, boy, and girl in this nation and I’m honored to receive this recognition,” said Congressman Aderholt. “Most Americans agree with me that the recent health care law that passed Congress in the summer will limit patient’s choices and negatively impact quality. Almost everywhere I go, people tell me that they’re concerned about this new legislation. I think you might see the new Congress try to repeal or replace the law with a common-sense, responsible solution that tries to address the cost of healthcare and provide more coverage to Americans without a government takeover.”Congressman Aderholt was presented with this award at a day-long event, on September 28th, which was dedicated to showcasing new developments in health care technologies, treatments and practices. This year’s event featured, among other displays, new technologies in treating diabetes and kidney disease as well as digital health coaching programs to help people improve their own well-being.“Our nation’s healthcare innovators are constantly developing new techniques and technologies to extend and enhance our lives, but we know there’s a great deal of work to be done to achieve the optimal healthcare system Americans need and deserve,” said HLC president Mary R. Grealy. “We’re grateful for Congressman Aderholt’s leadership, dedication and hard work in advancing the quality, accessibility and cost-effectiveness of American healthcare.”During the past 3 weeks, Congressman Aderholt has also been awarded the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) “Guardian of Small Business” award and the National Tax Limitation Committee (NTLC) “Tax Fighter Award.”####Pictured from Left To Right: Congressman Aderholt and Healthcare Leadership Council President Mary R. Grealy
09.29.2010	Contact: Darrell "DJ" Jordan202-225-4876ADERHOLT STATEMENT ON THE SENATE NASA AUTHORIZATION BILL VOTE IN THE HOUSE WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-AL) tonight issued the following statement after voting for the Senate NASA Authorization Act of 2010 in the House. The bill passed by a vote of 304 to 118.Rep. Aderholt serves on the powerful House Appropriations Committee, as a member of the Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee, which is responsible for funding NASA.“NASA has always been very important to me and to our nation’s technology and science capabilities. Furthermore, I think most Americans want the U.S. to remain a world-leader in the new frontier and that’s why this year’s debate over NASA’s direction has been so crucial.”“For about a year, we have fought the President’s plan to cancel Constellation and replace it with an unproven commercial program with very little accountability and safety. That’s why I have supported the House NASA Authorization bill because it boldly rejected the President’s proposal and it provided a stronger human space flight plan through a traditional government option. I also supported Chairman Gordon’s compromise bill. However, the House leadership did not bring either of these bills to the floor for an up-or-down vote or allow for amendments to the Senate bill.”“I decided to vote for the Senate NASA Authorization Bill because it is the only option, perhaps for many months, for ending the limbo created by the Administration’s desire to end Constellation. The Senate NASA Authorization Bill proposes to begin immediate, vigorous work on a heavy lift rocket and I look forward to seeing that program develop properly.” “I am not convinced this Administration is serious about human spaceflight goals beyond the Space Station, so I will be working with my colleagues to help make our space program goals worthy of this great nation. I will work with Senator Shelby and the rest of the Alabama delegation during the Appropriations process to enable Marshall to move ahead on an appropriate heavy-lift rocket plan. I also promise to closely watch how the Administration implements the policy of this bill. I can assure you that there will be an unusual level of congressional oversight and scrutiny given to how these taxpayer dollars are spent.”####
09.29.2010	Contact: Darrell "DJ" Jordan202-225-4876CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT’S NOTARY BILL PASSES SENATE, EXPECTED TO BE SIGNED INTO LAW BY PRESIDENTLegislation Will Help Those Who Do Business Across State LinesWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt’s (R-Haleyville) bill to help businesses by reforming the notarization process passed the Senate on Monday, after 4 years of pushing the legislation through Congress. When enacted, the “Interstate Recognition of Notarizations (IRON) Act of 2009” (HR 3808), will address problems in dealing with the recognition of notarizations across state lines. “I am very pleased to finally see this bill pass the Senate after working on it for so long,” said Congressman Aderholt. “This legislation will help businesses around the nation by eliminating the confusion which arises when states refuse to acknowledge the integrity of documents notarized out-of-state. This issue continues to be a problem for businesses and individuals who engage in business across state lines. This bill offers a common sense solution to a problem that is more widespread than is generally recognized.”The “Interstate Recognition of Notarizations Act of 2009” was introduced by Congressman Aderholt on Wednesday, October 14, 2009 and it passed the House on Tuesday, April 27, 2010. The bill is expected to now be signed into law by the President.Congressman Aderholt had previously introduced the legislation during the 110th and 109th Congress. The bill passed the House of Representatives during those Congressional sessions but was not taken up by the Senate.When signed into law, this legislation will require that documents be recognized in any state or federal court if the subject affects interstate commerce and the document is duly notarized by seal or if a seal is tagged to an electronic document. The bill does not preclude the challenge of a notarized document, such as a will contest.Currently, each state is responsible for regulating its notaries. Typically, someone who wishes to become a notary pays a fee, submits an application and takes an oath of office. Some states require applicants to enroll in an educational course, pass an exam, and obtain a notary bond. This legislation does not change how the individual states regulate notaries in any manner. ####
09.28.2010	Contact: Darrell "DJ" Jordan202-225-4876CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT RECEIVES PRESTIGIOUS PRO-SMALL BUSINESS, LIMTED TAXATION AWARDSWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) has won an award from two separate advocacy groups that promote limited government, less taxes and small business entrepreneurship.The National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB), the nation’s leading small business association, has named Congressman Aderholt a “Guardian of Small Business” for his voting record on behalf of America’s small business owners in the 111th Congress. In addition, the National Tax Limitation Committee (NTLC) has given the “Tax Fighter Award” to Congressman Aderholt for his voting record in the 111th Congress. Both awards were presented to Congressman Aderholt on September 23rd. “These awards mean a lot to me because they represent some of the values that I am most passionate about -- less taxes and economic prosperity through limited government and private sector growth,” said Congressman Aderholt. “I am fully committed to the principles of smaller, more accountable government because I believe that these principles make our nation stronger. I am extremely appreciative and honored by these awards and I support what these two organizations are doing on behalf of conservative Americans all over this nation.”NFIB’s voting record tallies key small business votes in the U.S. House of Representatives taken during the 2009 and 2010 sessions. NFIB has presented Guardian awards to members of Congress who voted favorably on key small business issues deemed important by the organization during the 111th Congress.“In the 111th Congress, Congressman Aderholt proved that he is a champion of small business,” said NFIB President and CEO Dan Danner. “The Guardian of Small Business Award is a token of the deep appreciation that small business owners have for elected officials who promote and protect their right to own, operate and grow their businesses.”NFIB is the nation’s leading small business association, with offices in Washington, D.C. and all 50 state capitals. Founded in 1943 as a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization, NFIB gives small and independent business owners a voice in shaping the public policy issues that affect their business. NFIB’s network of grassroots activists send their views directly to state and federal lawmakers through their member-only ballot, in an effort to support America’s free enterprise system. “Congressman Robert Aderholt’s votes on tax and spending issues in the 111th Congress earned him an ‘A’ grade and the Tax Fighter Award,” said NTLC President Lewis K. Uhler. “Aderholt has led the battle on behalf of taxpayers to stop the passage of ObamaCare and cap-and-trade legislation, to make the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts permanent, to eliminate the death tax, to kill the Alternative Minimum Tax, to provide incentives for investment and job creation and to control the growth of federal spending.”Since 1975 the National Tax Limitation Committee, a 501(c)(4) grass roots taxpayer activist organization, has worked to limit taxes and spending and to reduce the size and scope of government at all levels. NTLC has led the national movement for constitutional tax and spending limits at the state and federal levels. NTLC publishes a congressional scorecard at the conclusion of each Congress, as it has for more than a quarter-century.“Congressman Aderholt has been a major asset to taxpayers across America during his congressional service, having earned the Tax fighter Award consistently in every session of Congress. He has had the courage to challenge the orthodoxy of Washington spending,” concluded Uhler.####PHOTO Pictured from Left To Right: Congressman Aderholt and National Tax Limitation Committee President Lewis K. Uhler
09.23.2010	Contact: Darrell "DJ" Jordan202-225-4876CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT ANNOUNCES SUPPORT FOR THE PLEDGE TO AMERICAAderholt: “I expect most Alabamians will embrace this Pledge”WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today announced his strong support for House Republican’s A Pledge to America, a new governing agenda focused on addressing the American people’s top priorities.The Pledge to America is the culmination of a months-long engagement with the American people in which House Republicans sought their ideas and priorities for Congress. The agenda offers concrete solutions that can be implemented immediately to tackle the issues that are most important to the nation, including job creation, spending restraint, national security, health care, and reform to Congress itself.“Over the last two years, the out-of-touch leadership in Washington, under Speaker Nancy Pelosi and President Obama, has ignored the voice of the people and Americans are looking for leadership that will listen to the citizens whom they serve. House Republicans are committed to the principles of smaller, more accountable government and we need to focus on issues like creating jobs, reining in spending and changing a dysfunctional Congress. Not only do we believe in these principles, the American people support them too.”“Through this Pledge to America we are presenting a set of practical solutions that will renew a commitment to our founding principles and offer a new way of doing business in Washington. I expect that most Alabamians will embrace this Pledge to America because it represents the conservative values and beliefs of the hard working people of our great state.”A copy of the Pledge to America can be found by CLICKING HERE . This new governing agenda is comprised of five specific policy plans that could be implemented right now if Washington Democratic Leaders would allow it:1. A plan to create jobs, end economic uncertainty, and make America more competitive.We will end the attack on free enterprise by repealing job-killing policies and taking steps to assure current businesses and future entrepreneurs that the government will not stifle their ability to compete in the global marketplace. By permanently stopping job-killing tax hikes, families will be able to keep more of their hard-earned money and small businesses will have the stability they need to invest in our economy and help grow our workforce.2. A plan to stop out-of-control spending and reduce the size of government.With common-sense exceptions for seniors, veterans, and our troops, we will roll back government spending to pre-stimulus, pre-bailout levels, saving us at least $100 billion in the first year alone and putting us on a path to balance the budget and pay down the debt. We will also establish strict budget caps to limit federal spending from this point forward. We will launch a sustained effort to stem the relentless growth in government that has occurred over the past decade. By cutting Congress’ budget, imposing a net hiring freeze on non-security federal employees, and reviewing every current government program to eliminate wasteful and duplicative programs, we can curb Washington’s irresponsible spending habits and reduce the size of government, while still fulfilling our necessary obligations. We will also prevent Washington from forcing responsible taxpayers to subsidize irresponsible behavior by ending bailouts permanently, canceling the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), and reforming Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.3. A plan to repeal and replace the government takeover of health care.We will enact real medical liability reform; allow Americans to purchase health coverage across state lines; empower small businesses with greater purchasing power; and create new incentives to save for future health needs. We will protect the doctor-patient relationship, and ensure that those with pre-existing conditions gain access to the coverage they need. We will permanently end taxpayer funding of abortion and codify the Hyde Amendment.4. A plan to reform Congress and restore trust.We will govern differently than past Congresses of both parties. We will require that every bill contain a citation of Constitutional authority. We will give all Representatives and citizens at least three days to read the bill before a vote. We will make sure that the floor schedule and operations reflect the priority of revitalizing the economy, and ensure there is an open process that makes it easier – not harder – to eliminate unnecessary spending on any legislation that spends the people’s money.5. A plan to keep our nation secure at home and abroad.Our plan will provide the resources, authority, and support that our deployed military requires. We will fully fund missile defense, and enforce sanctions against Iran. We will keep terrorist combatants in Guantanamo Bay, not in our local jails and courtrooms. Our borders are a vital part of our security, so we will act decisively to ensure that the federal government fulfills its constitutional duty to protect our citizens and our Nation, working closely with our state and local governments.####
09.10.2010	Contact: Darrell "DJ" Jordan202-225-4876 ADERHOLT STATEMENT ON A CULLMAN SCHOOL BEING NAMED A 2010 NATIONAL BLUE RIBBON SCHOOLCullman’s West Point Elementary Is One Of Only Four Alabama Schools HonoredWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today made the following statement on Cullman’s West Point Elementary School being named a 2010 National Blue Ribbon School by the U.S. Department of Education. This is the second Cullman elementary school in as many years, as West Elementary School was named a Blue Ribbon School last year. Education Secretary Arne Duncan made the announcement yesterday at the School Without Walls, a 2010 Blue Ribbon School in Washington, DC.“An investment in our young people’s education is one of the most valuable investments that we as a nation can make,” said Congressman Aderholt. “We are extremely proud of Principal Shireen Coleman, her staff and the West Point Elementary School students and parents for the great accomplishment of being named a Blue Ribbon School. It takes a lot of patience and perseverance to strive for such an accomplishment and actually obtain it - this is a testament to the entire community’s commitment to education and hard work.”"Our nation has a responsibility to help all children realize their full potential," said Education Secretary Arne Duncan. "Schools honored with the Blue Ribbon Schools award are committed to achievement and to ensuring that students learn and succeed. Their work reflects the conviction that every child has promise and must receive a quality education."Only three other Alabama schools made the 2010 list – Anna F. Booth Elementary School in Irvington, Fruithurst Elementary School in Fruithurst and Montana Street Magnet School in Dothan. From 2003 to 2009, only 17 Alabama schools have been name Blue Ribbon Schools. This year, 254 public and 50 private schools have been honored with this award. In the past 28 years, more than 6,000 of America's schools have received this coveted award.Principal Shireen Coleman and one teacher from the school will be invited to a special awards ceremony in Washington D.C. in November to receive a Blue Ribbon Schools plaque and a flag to signify its status.The Blue Ribbon Schools Program honors public and private elementary, middle and high schools whose students achieve at very high levels or have made significant progress and helped close gaps in achievement, especially among disadvantaged and minority students. The program is part of a larger Department of Education effort to identify and disseminate knowledge about best school leadership and teaching practices. ####
08.29.2010	The Gadsden TimesIs Washington Listening To America?By Rep Robert Aderholt (AL-04)Sunday, August 29, 2010Although one of my jobs is to represent you by voting in Washington, some of the most valuable time for me is spent meeting with people from back home in Alabama. I think that it is impossible to effectively do my job at the U.S. Capitol without taking the time to listen to the people of the 4th Congressional District of Alabama.Unfortunately, many Americans these days feel that Washington is not listening to them. If you look at the reaction of the agenda of the President, Speaker Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Reid over the last 2 years, it appears evident that the majority of the American people are not on board.Whether it be from the many polls or studies or public meetings with Congressmen and their constituents, there is strong evidence that Americans don’t like what the majority party is doing in Washington.It’s because of this observation that House Republicans have reevaluated how to serve and represent our constituents back home. Over the last year, Congress, on so many occasions, has ignored the voice of the people. Americans are looking for leadership that acts to implement the will of the people and something must change.Back in June, House Republicans announced “America Speaking Out,” an unprecedented new initiative of engagement with the American people that will, in time, lead to a governing policy agenda for America.By the end of this year, I firmly believe that Americans will know that House Republicans are not only interested in different policies than the current majority, but also running the House differently, in a manner that is more transparent and accountable than has been done in the past.Using all the resources and opportunities available, including cutting-edge technology, district meetings, and old-fashioned conversation, we are going to engage the American people to talk about the challenges they’d like Congress to address.As I have had meetings here in north Alabama during this month of August, I have already tried to communicate that some in Washington really want to know what is on their minds. I voted against the bailout bill, the stimulus bill, the health care bill and the job-killing energy bill known as “cap & trade.” I believe that these policies are not in America's best interest, but I also want you to know that I took into consideration the fact that you, the constituents, didn’t like them either.Our national debt is $13.3 Trillion, our current federal deficit is $1.47 Trillion and unemployment is still close to 10% despite all of the attempts by Washington to spend our way out of a financial downturn. I, and many Alabamians, believe that we must drastically change this trend or else it will take a very, very long time for us to recover from this recession. Americans are speaking out against this out-of-control spending in Washington and sooner or later the majority in Washington will get the message. It may not happen now, but they will certainly get the message in November! We know our principles. This America Speaking Out project is not simply a listening tour, this will be a discussion about the priorities of the American people and how we can use our principles of smaller, more accountable government to solve problems and restore the broken bonds of trust between Americans and their elected leaders.Whatever agenda materializes at the end of the process will be a reflection of the months of engagement, and the final product will offer a clear commitment of policy solutions and procedural reforms that Americans can expect us to fight for right away.Not just a Republican agenda, this will be a process and product that can transcend traditional politics and restore trust. I would encourage you to please take the time to log-on to AmericaSpeakingOut.com and participate in this special project. Building a new agenda for our nation starts today and I hope that you will join me in the process.####www.americaspeakingout.comCongressman Robert Aderholt is serving his seventh term as the U.S. Representative of the Fourth Congressional District of Alabama. Rep. Aderholt serves on the powerful House Appropriations Committee, as the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Legislative Branch, and a member of the Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee. Rep. Aderholt also serves on the House Budget Committee and the Helsinki Commission.
07.30.2010	Contact: Darrell "DJ" Jordan202-225-4876ADERHOLT AUTHORS BILL TO PROTECT TEXTILE JOBS IN NORTH ALABAMA Winston County Company Could Be Hurt By Unfair Trade Policy WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) authored and submitted a bill in the House of Representatives last night that would correct trade rules to help the domestic textile manufacturing industry. The legislation, entitled the “Save U.S. Manufacturing and Jobs Act” (H.R. 5940), would remove preferential trade treatment for importing certain sleeping bags – a textile product being produced by a north Alabama manufacturing company called Exxel Outdoors, Inc., located in Haleyville. “It is very important that sleeping bags be removed from eligibility for duty-free treatment under GSP. This will keep jobs in America and make sure that companies like Exxel Outdoors, Inc. are able to operate on an even playing field with international industries who aren’t subject to the same taxes,” said Congressman Aderholt. “During a time of record unemployment, it is important that we do more to save jobs in north Alabama, including ensuring that our trade policy is fair for local manufacturing companies. Sleeping bags should have never been included in this exemption list since they are textiles and this bill corrects that matter. ” "We are very grateful to Congressman Aderholt for fighting to create more American jobs," remarked Exxel's CEO Harry Kazazian. "If legislators are serious about creating American jobs, then they need to correct this injustice, to make sure that no foreign country has an unfair advantage over American workers. That is not what the GSP was intended for." The Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) is a system of trade rules designed to promote economic growth in the developing world by providing preferential duty-free entry for about 4,800 products from over 130 designated beneficiary countries and territories. To protect the domestic industry, textiles are not included in GSP. However, there is a loophole in the law and sleeping bags are therefore not considered a textile under GSP, making them eligible to receive duty-free benefits from developing countries. A bill that was signed into law in December 2009 (H.R. 4284) extended GSP rules by one year. These duty-free benefits have encouraged some companies to move their operations to countries like Bangladesh in order to take advantage of lower operating costs and unfair trade rules. This policy could cause companies like Exxel Outdoors, Inc. to lose business. On December 10, 2009, Congressman Aderholt wrote a letter to President Obama’s top trade officials, Commerce Secretary Gary Locke and Trade Representative Ron Kirk, requesting that the U.S. eliminate sleeping bags from the list of GSP eligible products. In June of this year, the Trade Representative ruled that the U.S. Government would not change its trade rules. Therefore, Congressman Aderholt decided to draft this legislation to address the issue. Rep. Mike Rogers (R-AL), Rep. Artur Davis (D-AL), Rep. Howard Coble (R-NC) and Rep. Walter Jones (R-NC) have signd onto the bill as cosponsors. Other suppliers of sleeping bags and raw materials manufacturing companies that would benefit from this bill are Martex Fiber in South Carolina, Stein Fibers in North Carolina, Equinox in Pennsylvania, Smurfit-Stone in Mississippi, Bertner Thread in New York and Royal Slide in New Jersey, among others. Exxel Outdoors, Inc. produces over 2 million sleeping bags per year in Haleyville, accounting for about 30 percent of the U.S. sleeping bag market. Harry Kazazian purchased the factory when it was almost shut down in 2000, then hired back its employees to re-open. Exxel began moving its sleeping bag production operations from China to Alabama in 2005, and now produces 80% of its bags in Alabama. It also moved some operations from Mexico to Haleyville, proving that U.S. workers can compete in the global market. The company hopes to eventually bring all production operations to Haleyville. ####
07.22.2010	Contact: Darrell "DJ" Jordan202-225-4876ADERHOLT STATEMENT ON TODAY’S HOUSE NASA AUTHORIZATION BILLWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) released the following statement after the House Committee on Science and Technology Committee approved its NASA Authorization Bill (H.R. 5781) today.The bill authorizes $13.2 billion over three years for a restructured Exploration program based on Constellation. The bill also provides $450 million over three years for a commercial crew initiative, including a loan and loan guarantee program, which is far less than the $6 billion requested by the Administration, over 5 years, and less than the $1.3 billion requested by the Senate, over 5 years. The Senate Commerce Committee approved its version of the NASA Authorization Act on July 15th.Congressman Aderholt serves on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, which provides funding for NASA.“I very much support the House NASA Authorization bill because it strongly rejects the Administration’s proposal to kill Constellation by providing a well thought-out strategy for maintaining a strong and well-rounded American space program.”“This House bill follows a key recommendation of the Augustine panel - that the so-called commercial approach not be the only method for reaching the International Space Station. By insisting on also having a government, traditional option by 2015, this bill utilizes the billions of dollars already spent on Constellation programs, as well as the safety criteria developed in response to the Columbia Accident Investigation Board. By contrast, the President's plan would cost taxpayers well over $3.5 billion in shutdown costs.”“In addition, this bill also saves taxpayers money, yet again, by using the overlapping rocket technologies of the Constellation plan to develop a heavy lift vehicle. There are many benefits of another mission to the Moon, especially with regard to health issues of long-term space travel.”“The development of the Senate and House NASA Authorization bills demonstrates one of the strengths of our three-branches-of-government structure. The Executive Branch can propose ideas but Congress must approve it before it becomes law. Since February, there has been bipartisan agreement in Congress that the President’s proposal to kill Constellation is not in the best interest of America’s space program. This House bill sets reasonable requirements for the development of commercial space, safe access to the International Space Station, and a workable approach to exploration beyond the International Space Station.” ####
07.09.2010	Contact: Darrell "DJ" Jordan202-225-4876CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT RE-ELECTED VICE CHAIR OF INTERNATIONAL HUMAN RIGHTS COMMITTEECommittee Promotes Human Rights & Religious Liberty Around The WorldOSLO, Norway -- Congressman Robert B. Aderholt (R-AL) was reelected as Vice Chair of the General Committee on Democracy, Human Rights and Humanitarian Questions today during the 19th Annual Session of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe Parliamentary Assembly (OSCE PA) in Oslo, Norway.Congressman Aderholt is taking part in the Parliamentary Assembly as a member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. The Helsinki Commission is an independent agency of the U.S. Government charged with monitoring compliance with the Helsinki Accords and advancing comprehensive security through promotion of human rights, democracy, and economic and military cooperation in 56 countries. Aderholt has been a member of the Commission since 2001.“I am honored that my fellow international parliamentarians have elected me to a second term as vice chair of this important human rights committee,” said Congressman Aderholt. “I look forward to continuing to promote individual liberties and ethnic and religious tolerance through more active participation on the committee. From our international security challenges to the need for economic cooperation, the work of parliaments around the world would ring hollow without the needed attention on the human rights emphasized within this committee.”As vice chair of the committee, Congressman Aderholt helps to set the agenda on democracy and human rights issues before the Parliamentary Assembly. The Assembly helps steer the policy direction of the OSCE in monitoring and encouraging the 56 participating states to comply with international commitments on security, economic issues and human rights.“Congressman Aderholt’s election today is an endorsement from our international colleagues that active participation from the United States in the Parliamentary Assembly is highly valued by lawmakers across the OSCE region,” said Chairman Ben Cardin. By winning his second one-year term on the panel, Aderholt ensured continued United States representation at the committee level of the Parliamentary Assembly. Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD), Chairman of the Helsinki Commission, is currently serving his second term as vice president of the entire body. Cardin’s term expires in July 2012.Co-Chairman Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), a former president of the Parliamentary Assembly, added, “Congressman Aderholt understands that international engagement is about more than showing up. It’s about truly building international relationships, fostering lasting dialogues and standing up to serve at the international level. I’m proud to see Congressman Aderholt carrying on a legacy of U.S. leadership at the Parliamentary Assembly.”####
06.29.2010	Contact: Darrell "DJ" Jordan202-225-4876ADERHOLT STATEMENT ON TODAY’S APPROPRIATIONS SUBCOMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE MARKUPWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) released the following statement after today’s Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice and Science markup hearing.“The President’s proposal to cancel Constellation will forfeit America’s leadership in space and possibly cut thousands of jobs across Alabama and the nation. After 6 months, Congress is still not comfortable moving forward with the President’s plan and many of my colleagues on both side of the aisle agree that the Appropriations Committee must reject this proposal.”“Since the announcement of the President’s proposal to cancel Constellation, NASA has cancelled the awarding of contracts or put on hold parts of numerous contracts. I believe that these actions regarding Constellation are, very likely, a violation of a clause in the FY2010 Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2009, which says that NASA cannot terminate the current Constellation program without Congressional approval.”“The final, two-thirds of the GAO investigation will be complete in a few weeks and I greatly anticipate its findings. The report will answer if NASA has violated law and address whether NASA has misapplied the Anti-Deficiency Act as a way of choking the life out of the Constellation program. As of June 21, some $890 million of Exploration funds had not been released and this could be a violation of the Impoundment and Control Act.” “I believe that we must fund NASA in a way which ensures that America’s space program remains a World leader in technology and access to space. Other than some support for the ongoing Commercial Orbital Transportation Services (COTS) cargo contracts, this CJS bill refuses to adopt the President’s plan. Our Committee still has important work to do on NASA’s budget and I look forward to working further with my colleagues and the authorizing committee.”Yesterday, Congressman Aderholt introducing a bill titled the “Protecting Human Space Flight Act of 2010.” This bill would force NASA to stop the suspension or expiration of Constellation contracts until Congress votes on the President’s proposal to cancel the Constellation program. The bill does not take any congressional action on FY2011 space policy or funding. At the time of the CJS markup, there were 14 cosponsors of the bill.In March, Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-AL) led several lawmakers in requesting that the Government Accountability Office (GAO) investigate whether NASA’s actions regarding the Constellation program, as well as the extent to which it is working on a new, unauthorized plan, violates law. GAO’s first reply of a 2-part response, confirmed that, even though NASA hadn’t violated law by its planning activities, its employees had devoted a significant amount of time, roughly 13,000 staff hours of high-level employees, on a plan which Congress has not approved yet. GAO’s stern response was a reminder to NASA that its planning activities should not materialize into the creation or initiation of a new program, activity or project before Congress approves it. Within the next 45 days, GAO will complete phase 2 of its report, investigating whether NASA is improperly withholding funds (violating the Impoundment and Control Act), and improperly applying the Anti-Deficiency Act as a means of chilling progress on Constellation work.According to the FY2010 “Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2009” (H.R.3288), which passed the House on December 10th, the Senate on December 14th, and signed into law on December 16, 2009, NASA cannot terminate the current Constellation program, without Congress Congressional approval.####
06.28.2010	Contact: Darrell "DJ" Jordan202-225-4876ADERHOLT AUTHORS BILL TO HALT SPACE INDUSTRY JOB LOSSESAderholt, “NASA is putting jobs in jeopardy because of a drastic proposal that isn’t even actual law.”WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today is introducing a bill that would force NASA to stop the suspension or expiration of Constellation contracts until Congress votes on the President’s proposal to cancel the Constellation program. The “Protecting Human Space Flight Act of 2010” would direct the NASA Administrator to not terminate contracts for the Constellation program, but rather force NASA to use FY2010 appropriated funds for what it was intended to do, which includes carrying out the Constellation program contracts and necessary support activities. The bill does not take any congressional action on FY2011 space policy or funding.“NASA is putting jobs in jeopardy because of a drastic proposal that isn’t even actual law. This plan put forth by the President’s Administration is simply that – a plan, and NASA should not be assuming that this plan will be approved by Congress and signed into law.”“Since February, I have fought the President’s proposal to cancel Constellation. This proposal by the Administration will forfeit America’s leadership in space and it will cut thousands of jobs across north Alabama and the nation. During the last month, contractors, under intense pressure from NASA regarding contract termination liability, have already begun laying off workers and canceling subcontracts, despite the fact that Congress has not approved the President’s proposal. That’s why the Protecting Human Space Flight Act of 2010 is necessary at this time. If Congress rejects the President’s proposal later this year and directs NASA to continue Constellation, it will be very difficult to reassemble the lost jobs and scaled down contract work.” The original co-sponsors of this bill, so far, are Rep. Ralph Hall (R-TX), who is the Ranking Member of the Committee on Science and Technology, Rep. Parker Griffith (R-AL), Rep. Bobby Bright (D-AL), Rep. Lincoln Davis (D-TN), Rep. Pete Olson (R-TX), Rep. Jo Bonner (R-AL), Rep. Steven LaTourette (R-OH), Rep. Mike Rogers (R-AL), Rep. Spencer Bachus (R-AL), Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT), Rep. Mike Coffman (R-CO), Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) and Rep. Bill Posey (R-FL), among others. “There is a bipartisan group of members of Congress who soundly reject the President’s proposal to kill the Constellation program. I hope this bill sends the message to the rest of the House or Representatives and the Administration that NASA must wait for Congress to act on its proposal and that our nation needs to make a commitment to properly fund the Constellation program to save jobs and make sure that America remains the leader in space.”In March, Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-AL) led several lawmakers in requesting that the Government Accountability Office (GAO) investigate whether NASA’s actions regarding the Constellation program, as well as the extent to which it is working on a new, unauthorized plan, violates law. GAO’s first reply of a 2-part response confirmed that, even though NASA hadn’t violated law by its planning activities, its employees had devoted a significant amount of time, roughly 13,000 staff hours of high-level employees, on a plan which Congress has not approved yet. GAO’s stern response was a reminder to NASA that its planning activities should not materialize into the creation or initiation of a new program, activity or project before Congress approves it. Within the next 45 days, GAO will complete phase 2 of its report, investigating whether NASA is improperly withholding funds (violating the Impoundment and Control Act), and improperly applying the Anti-Deficiency Act as a means of chilling progress on Constellation work.On February 1, 2010, the Administration announced its FY2011 Budget, which proposes to eliminate the NASA Constellation program. Since that time, NASA has cancelled or put on hold parts of numerous contracts which were a part of the regular, FY10 work for the Constellation program, despite the fact that Congress must first approve its termination before it becomes final policy. According to the FY2010 “Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2009” (H.R.3288), which passed the House on December 10th, the Senate on December 14th, and signed into law on December 16, 2009, NASA cannot terminate the current Constellation program, without Congress Congressional approval.Since the announcement of the President’s proposal to end human space flight, Congressman Aderholt has worked with a bipartisan group of lawmakers to stop the plan and hold the Administration accountable to its activities relating to NASA and any policy change.On Tuesday, March 23rd, Congressman Aderholt questioned NASA Administrator Charles Bolden about the President’s decision to end the Constellation program, during a Commerce, Justice, Science Subcommittee hearing in Washington. Congressman Aderholt specifically questioned Mr. Bolden about the conflicting operation cost numbers that the Administration bases their decision on.On Wednesday, February 24th, Congressman Aderholt pressed President Obama’s top science and technology advisor, Dr. John P. Holdren, during an Appropriations subcommittee, on the Administration’s plan to end Constellation. Aderholt serves on the powerful House Appropriations Committee, as a member of the Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee, which is responsible for funding NASA.####
06.24.2010	Contact: Darrell "DJ" Jordan202-225-4876 ADERHOLT RECEIVES NATIONAL CHRISTIAN STATESMANSHIP AWARD FOR COMMITMENT TO FAITH WHILE SERVING IN GOV’TPast Winners Include Judge Roy Moore, Sen. Sam Brownback & John AshcroftWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) was awarded the 2010 Distinguished Christian Statesman of the Year Award by the Center for Christian Statesmanship at a reception ceremony on Tuesday night in Washington D.C. This award is annually given to a national Christian political leader and is defined as an award for a public servant whose commitment to Jesus Christ and love of country compel him or her to stand for truth and righteousness in government.The Center for Christian Statesmanship was created by Dr. D. James Kennedy in 1995, with the first Christian Statesmanship Award being first given in 1996. The late Dr. Kennedy was the founder and pastor of the Coral Ridge Presbyterian Church in Ft. Lauderdale, FL and the Evangelism Explosion International ministry. Dr. Kennedy died in September 2007.“I am humbled and extremely honored to be the 2010 Christian Statesman of the Year,” said Congressman Aderholt (R-AL). “I am very thankful that I can serve in the government of a country that allows all Americans to discuss faith freely and boldly. This is an important right that our nation was founded on and it’s important for elected officials to remember that.”Congressman Aderholt is the fifteenth recipient of this award. Past winners have included Rep. Mike Pence (R-IN) in 2008, Rep. Mike McIntyre (D-NC) in 2006, former Majority Leader Rep. Tom DeLay (R-TX) in 2002, Sen. Sam Brownback (R-KS) in 2000, former Alabama Chief Justice Roy Moore in 1997 and former Sen. John Ashcroft in 1996.Aderholt continued, “I am also honored to be listed with a group of past recipients that share a common vision and purpose to take a stand for the Christian principles that our founding fathers thought were so important for this nation. The very first act of the first Congress was to bring in a minister and have Congress led in prayer to God. The moment that we forget our nation’s rich Judeo-Christian heritage will be the moment that we forget about our history as a country blessed by God.”During his time in Congress, Aderholt has championed legislative issues such as preserving religious freedom in America and protecting our nation’s religious heritage history. Congressman Aderholt has also been the sponsor of the Congressional National Day of Prayer event at the U.S. Capitol for the past four years.####From left to right: Center for Christian Statesmanship Executive Director George Roller, Congressman Aderholt, the late Dr. James Kennedy’s daughter Jennifer Kennedy-Cassidy and President of Evangelism Explosion International Dr. John Sorensen
06.07.2010	CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT ATTENDS GUNTERSVILLE VETERANS AFFAIRS CLINIC GRAND OPENING Clinic Will Serve Veterans In Marshall County & Surrounding CountiesWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today attended the grand opening of the Guntersville Veterans Affairs Community Based Outpatient Clinic. In addition to participating in the ceremonial ribbon-cutting for the grand opening, Congressman Aderholt delivered remarks."Marshall County and the surrounding counties have a large number of war veterans who, up until today, have had to travel to Huntsville, Gadsden or even Birmingham to receive care. This much-needed facility will serve about 2,500 veterans living right here in Marshall County,” said Congressman Aderholt. “This country is free because of the sacrifices of these brave men and women who have risked their lives for the very liberties we enjoy today. It is very important to me that our veterans are taken care of and have access to the best service and best facilities.”According to Bertram Perry, program specialist for the Veterans Administration Hospital in Birmingham, the Guntersville clinic will have about 11 staff members and is projected to start with a $1.4 million budget for its first year of operation.The clinic is located at 100 Judy Smith Drive, between Guntersville and Albertville. It is behind Applebee's Restaurant off U.S. 431, across from the Marshall County Health Department. ###
05.25.2010	Contact: Darrell "DJ" Jordan202-225-4876ADERHOLT SUPPORTS LEGISLATION TO PROTECT THE TEXTILE INDUSTRY IN ALABAMAThe Textile Enforcement & Security Act addresses lack of oversight on textiles & apparel tradeWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-AL) today spoke about his support of the Textile Enforcement and Security Act at a press conference at the U.S. Capitol. Congressman Aderholt released the following statement moments after announcing that he is an original cosponsor of the bill at the press conference.“The U.S. textile industry depends on strong customs enforcement for its livelihood but the industry has noticed a sharp increase in illegal trafficking. By failing to ensure proper enforcement of our agreements and trade obligations, the government is damaging the ability of U.S. manufacturing to compete in the global market. Because of unfair trade practices, the U.S. textile industry has closed over 500 textile plants in the United States and my district in north Alabama has suffered greatly, in particular the sock manufacturing plants in Ft. Payne, even though they use the most modern equipment and processes available. It is important for our government to do something to protect our domestic textile companies and that’s why I am an original cosponsor of the Textile Enforcement and Security Act.” “The Textile Enforcement and Security Act addresses the long standing concerns regarding lack of oversight and enforcement on textiles and apparel trade facilitated by Customs and Border Protection by providing our government with the necessary resources, authority, and direction to properly enforce U.S. textile and apparel trade obligations. This legislation is the first ever textile specific customs enforcement bill and I am pleased that it will protect jobs in Alabama and other states that rely so heavily on the textile industry.” The bill now has 26 cosponsors including Rep. Mike Rogers (AL-03). Congressman Larry Kissell (D-NC), Congressman Walter Jones (R-NC), Congressman John Spratt (D-SC), Congressman Howard Coble (R-NC), Congressman Mike McIntyre (D-NC) and Congresswoman Linda Sanchez (D-CA) also support the bill and took part in today’s press conference.####
05.25.2010	ALABAMA REPUBLICANS ANNOUNCE “AMERICA SPEAKING OUT”Republicans plan to offer a new set of policy solutions with help of American people WASHINGTON – The members of Alabama’s Republican congressional delegation today announced the introduction of “America Speaking Out”, an unprecedented grassroots initiative to provide the American people with a way to play a part in shaping policy affecting key national issues like cutting spending and limiting the size of government. Through “America Speaking Out”, citizens will be given a voice in setting the priorities for a national agenda. At town hall meetings, online at AmericaSpeakingOut.com, and through new communications tools, all Americans will have an opportunity to be a part of this effort.Alabama Republicans said they plan to engage citizens in the state in discussing the challenges they’d like Congress to address through online and district initiatives over the next several months using a variety of resources and opportunities, including cutting-edge technology, town hall meetings, district events and old-fashioned conversation.Congressman Spencer Bachus (AL-06), senior member of the delegation, said, “The American people are tired of being ignored when it comes to issues like health care, continued government bailouts, and cutting wasteful spending. My town halls have been packed by constituents who have thoughtful solutions to the challenges facing our nation. The citizens of Alabama have a lot to contribute to the national debate over controlling the size and cost of the federal government, and the ‘America Speaking Out’ initiative is an innovative way to make sure their voices are heard.”Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) said, “Over the last year, the liberal leadership in Congress under Nancy Pelosi has ignored the voice of the people and Americans are looking for leadership that will listen to the citizens whom they serve. Alabama Republicans are committed to our principles of smaller, more accountable government and over the next several months, we will have the opportunity to engage Alabamians about policy ideas that will move our nation forward.”Congressman Parker Griffith (AL-05) said, “It is evident that with the recent passage of detrimental legislation such as cap and trade, the health care bill, bailouts and stimulus packages that the Democrats in D.C. are not listening to the interests of the American public. Instead, we need to be passing legislation that helps Americans buy a home, build their business and ensure proper health care for their families. I am encouraged by this Republican initiative and support ‘America Speaking Out’ to enable citizens to get their ideas into the hands of lawmakers in Washington. There needs to be a change in Congress and this initiative will help Members of Congress define what direction to go. I urge Americans to participate in this initiative and to send their voice to Washington to help implement much needed changes.”Congressman Jo Bonner (AL-01) said, “Opinion poll after opinion poll reflects that the American people feel Congress no longer represents them. The public has the lowest regard for Congress in history and it’s no wonder after the Democrat leadership strong-armed the passage of a host of massive new spending bills that balloon our budget deficit, and in the case of health care, ignores Americans’ rights to make some of the most personal choices in their lives. I am excited about the launch of the ‘America Speaking Out’ program which harnesses the Internet and other new communications tools to give the public a direct voice in the shaping of political policy and spending priorities. It’s a breath of fresh air in our democracy that’s long overdue. I encourage everyone to log on to the ‘America Speaking Out’ web site and make your voices heard.”Congressman Mike Rogers (AL-03) said, “According to the Congressional Budget Office, the Federal government only has enough money to pay 61 percent of its bills this fiscal year. It’s not sustainable, and proves why the Democratic-led Congress needs to follow the lead of folks in Alabama and spend within its means. I hope the “America Speaking Out” initiative will allow even more Americans a chance to speak their mind on this and other issues, and provide another platform to help amplify their opinions and ideas.”The America Speaking Out initiative is being led by Chief Deputy Republican Whip Rep. Kevin McCarthy who represents the 22nd District of California. Today is the launch of this new agenda program. Detailed information can be found at www.AmericaSpeakingOut.com website.####
05.12.2010	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 226-7602 ADERHOLT MEETS WITH ASTRONAUTS NEIL ARMSTRONG AND EUGENE CERNAN TO DISCUSS WAYS TO SAVE HUMAN SPACE FLIGHTArmstrong & Cernan Strongly Believe That NASA Shouldn’t Rely So Heavily On Commercial CompaniesWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-AL) today met with astronauts Neil Armstrong and Eugene Cernan to discuss ways to defeat the President’s plan to cancel the NASA Constellation program. Apollo 11 commander Neil Armstrong, who was the first man to walk on the moon, and Apollo 17 commander Eugene Cernan, who is the last man to walk on the moon, both agree that there are serious problems with the President’s space proposal, especially the plan to have commercial launches as the only option for human spaceflight. Armstrong and Cernan were in Washington to testify before a U.S. Senate Committee on the future of NASA.“It is quite an honor to partner with astronaut greats, Neil Armstrong and Eugene Cernan, in fighting to preserve our nation’s phenomenal space program,” said Congressman Aderholt. “Since the announcement of the President’s plan to kill the constellation mission, many Americans have joined those in Congress in boldly rejecting the plan and I am thankful that Armstrong and Cernan are here to publicly speak out against it.”Aderholt continued, “Today, we talked about how the President’s NASA plan will cut thousands of jobs across north Alabama and the nation and, more devastatingly, will forfeit America’s leadership in space. This leadership will most likely be picked up by countries like Russia and China. Mr. Cernan and Mr. Armstrong both emphatically believe that relying on commercial companies that, in some cases, have little experience with building manned space systems will severely weaken our standing as the world’s leader in human space flight. I believe that there are many members of Congress who do not want this to happen and I hope that all of Congress will heed Armstrong and Cernan’s plea to make a commitment to a properly funded the Constellation program.”Congressman Aderholt serves on the powerful House Appropriations Committee, as a member of the Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee, which is responsible for funding NASA.Days before the President’s April Space Summit in Florida, Armstrong, Cernan and several other astronauts wrote a public letter to the President blasting his decision to cancel NASA’s back-to-the-moon program, saying that the move is “devastating” to America’s space effort. The letter noted that the U.S. space effort will be dependent for years to come on the Russians for transport to the International Space Station, at a cost of more than $50 million per seat."For the United States, the leading spacefaring nation for nearly half a century, to be without carriage to low Earth orbit and with no human exploration capability to go beyond Earth orbit for an indeterminate time into the future, destines our nation to become one of second or even third-rate stature," they said in the letter."America must decide if it wishes to remain a leader in space," the astronauts said. "If it does, we should institute a program which will give us the very best chance of achieving that goal."####
04.28.2010	Contact: Darrell "DJ" Jordan202-225-4876 ADERHOLT MEETS WITH ALABAMA ASSOCIATION OF VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENTSWASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today met with representatives of the Alabama Association of Volunteer Fire Departments in his office at the U.S. Capitol. They also presented Congressman Aderholt with an official fire chief representative badge. "Our local volunteer fire departments do a tremendous job protecting our communities with limited resources,” said Congressman Aderholt. “I’m committed to doing everything within my power to see that they receive additional funding so that they can do their job efficiently and safely. It was an honor to meet with and communicate my appreciation for the fire fighters that I met with today.”####
04.25.2010	Contact: Darrell "DJ" Jordan202-225-4876 ADERHOLT STATEMENT ON STORM DAMAGE IN NORTH ALABAMAWASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) made the following statement on yesterday's tornado damage in Marshall and DeKalb Counties. "Our thoughts and prayers are with those impacted by yesterday's tornado. My staff and I stand ready to work with local officials and Alabama EMA and FEMA to help in the recovery process. North Alabama is a community of hard-working people who are able to withstand trials and bounce back with relentless determination and this storm recovery will be no different."####
04.23.2010	Contact: Darrell "DJ" Jordan202-225-4876ADERHOLT STATEMENT ON DISCOURAGING GOV’T REPORT PREDICTING HIGHER-THAN-EXPECTED HEALTH CARE COSTSWASHINGTON, DC. - Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today issued the following statement on Thursday’s Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) analysis report on the President’s health care law that predicts that our nation's health care costs will increase due to the law. This new government report from Rick Foster, the chief actuary of CMS, finds that President Obama's new health care reform law will increase the nation's health care costs, instead of bringing it down, to the tune of $828 billion over the next decade while saving $577 billion.CMS is a federal agency within the United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) that administers the Medicare program and works in partnership with state governments to administer Medicaid, the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) and health insurance portability standards.“Yesterday’s government report on the President’s recently signed health care law is very troubling but confirms what many had feared, that the law will increase the nation's health care costs more than expected instead of bringing it down.”“Many Americans and members of Congress believe that you can expand health insurance for millions of Americans by reducing health care costs for everyone with common sense policies, but unfortunately those ideas were not seriously considered during negotiations of the bill.” “The CMS analysis found that the law falls short of the President's goal of controlling rising health care costs, but instead raises projected spending by about 1% over 10 years. The report also shows that our seniors are at risk because the President’s Medicare cuts could drive about 15% of hospitals and other institutional providers into more debt, possibly jeopardizing access to care for seniors who rely on Medicare coverage.”“In early March, Speaker Pelosi warned Americans that Congress would have to pass the health care bill for people to find out what was in it. Well, we’re learning more and more about this law every day and it’s becoming more and more clear that we need to repeal this law and start over with real reform that gives the American people more choices, not more government.”Congressman Aderholt co-sponsored an alternative health care solution in July 2009, called the "Empowering Patients First Act" (H.R. 3400). Congressman Aderholt voted against the first version of the health care bill, the Affordable Health Care for America Act, in the House on Saturday, November 7, 2009, as well as the final version of the health care bill, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, on March 21, 2010. The final version of the health care bill passed the House by a vote of 219-212 and was signed into law by the President on Tuesday, March 23rd.####
04.21.2010	Contact: Darrell "DJ" Jordan202-225-4876ADERHOLT SPEAKS OUT AGAINST A FEDERAL JUDGE’S DECISION ON NATIONAL DAY OF PRAYERWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today spoke out against last week’s federal judge ruling that a law designating a National Day of Prayer is unconstitutional. Aderholt joined Members of Congress and national religious leaders at the U.S. Capitol to discuss the history of the National Day of Prayer and to affirm the right of Americans to pray according to their faith.Last Thursday, U.S. District Judge Barbara B. Crabb, of Wisconsin, issued the decision in a case filed by the Freedom From Religion Foundation, a group that challenges the constitutionality of a 1988 federal law requiring the president to designate the first Thursday in May as a National Day of Prayer.The National Day of Prayer is an annual observance that invites people of all faiths to pray for America and this year marks the 59th annual observance. Congressman Aderholt has been the sponsor of the Congressional National Day of Prayer event at the Capitol for the past four years.“The National Day of Prayer was officially created in 1952 by a joint resolution of the United States Congress, and signed into law by President Harry S. Truman. Every president since 1952 has signed a National Day of Prayer proclamation,” said Congressman Aderholt. “National days of prayer have a long-standing and significant history in American tradition that should not be changed or meddled with.”“This nation is great because our founding fathers committed to prayer and the principles of their faith and it’s important for America to remember our heritage. I am pleased that President Obama will still issue a proclamation recognizing this year’s National Day of Prayer, but I hope that he will direct the Justice Department to appeal and overturn this lower court ruling.”In response to this recent ruling, Congressman Aderholt co-sponsored two resolutions in the House of Representatives. The first is a resolution that would call for an appeal of the ruling against the National Day of Prayer and express the support of the House of Representatives for the institution of an annual National Day of Prayer. The second resolution affirms the constitutionality and historical significance of the National Day of Prayer.Congressional Prayer Caucus co-Chairmen Rep. Randy Forbes (R-VA) and Rep. Mike McIntyre (D-NC) and Rep. Aderholt were joined by Rep. Michele Bachmann (MN-06), Rep. Mike Pence (IN-06) and about 20 other Congressmen and women at the press conference.National Day of Prayer events take place all over America and this year’s Congressional National Day of Prayer observance will take place in the Cannon Building at the U.S. Capitol from 9am-12pm EST on May 6th and the public is invited. Franklin Graham, Congressman Lincoln Davis (D-TN), Texas Supreme Court Justice Nathan L. Hecht, James Dobson and others will speak at the event.###You can listen to Congressman Aderholt's remarks by clicking here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zA3xsD_2ElU Congressional National Day of Prayer ObservanceWHERE: Cannon House Office Bldg -- Caucus Room (Room #: 345)WHEN: Thursday, May 6, 2010, 9am-12pmSPEAKERS: Rep. Lincoln Davis (D-TN) , Texas Supreme Court Justice Nathan Hecht, Franklin Graham, Rear Admiral Lawrence Rice, Dr. James Dobson, National Day of Prayer Task Force Chairman Mrs. Shirley DobsonNOTE: If you are not able to attend, you can watch online at www.god.tv####
04.08.2010	WASHINGTON, DC. -- Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today discussed the new health care bill, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, and how it will impact north Alabama at a public health care forum in Cullman, Alabama. The public forum took place at the Cullman Regional Medical Center (CRMC) and was moderated by CRMC President & CEO Jim Weidner.“The meeting today provided an opportunity for me to discuss the health care bill with many of my constituents,” said Congressman Aderholt.More than 140 local residents, including more than 20 physicians, attended today’s CRMC Health Care Forum. The event began at 7:00am so that hospital staff could attend before seeing patients.Cullman Regional Medical Center President/CEO Jim Weidner also added, “Today’s health care discussion allowed area residents to learn more about the recent health care legislation and how it will impact residents and Alabama hospitals such as ours.”Congressman Aderholt opposed the President’s health care proposal, but instead co-sponsored alternative legislation, called the Empowering Patients First Act. Aderholt also held a public health care forum in September in Albertville, AL.Aderholt continued, “There is no question that we need to address the health care problems that we are currently dealing with in this country. However, the Obama-Pelosi-Reid health care plan adds up to way too much spending, too much bureaucracy, numerous unfair mandates and more government control in an area where more government just doesn’t belong. In addition, the bill doesn’t have strong enough language to prevent federal funding of abortions.”Congressman Aderholt voted against the first version of the health care bill, the Affordable Health Care for America Act, in the House on Saturday, November 7, 2009, as well as the final version of the health care bill, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, on March 21, 2010. The final version of the health care bill passed the House by a vote of 219-212 and was signed into law by the President on Tuesday, March 23rd.
03.23.2010	Contact: Darrell "DJ" Jordan202-225-4876ADERHOLT QUESTIONS NASA ADMINISTRATOR CHARLES BOLDEN ABOUT THE CONSTELLATION PROGRAMWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-AL) today questioned NASA Administrator Charles Bolden about the President’s decision to end the Constellation program, during a Commerce, Justice, Science Subcommittee hearing in Washington. Rep. Aderholt serves on the powerful House Appropriations Committee, as a member of the Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee, which is responsible for funding NASA.Congressman Aderholt made the following statement moments after the hearing.“The President’s decision to end the Constellation program is reckless and could cripple U.S. human spaceflight for an unknown number of years. I appreciate Administrator Bolden’s attendance at today’s hearing. He is a well-respected Marine and Astronaut; however his testimony and answers did not calm my fears that our nation’s space program will not remain a leading science program.”“On several occasions, Administrator Bolden informed me that he needed to provide answers to my questions at a later time. I look forward to his responses because those answers are key to showing the American people that our nation can continue a Constellation program in a cost-efficient manner. The President and his Administration are basing their decision to end Constellation mostly on cost, but today’s hearing proved that there are serious discrepancies on the cost of many of NASA Constellation operations.”“Bolden’s testimony also proved that the President doesn’t have any plans for heavy-lift cargo capability and human space flight, other than to the International Space Station, beyond 2011. That also concerns me, my colleagues and many Americans who are worried that our space program will take a big step back if this plan is implemented.”“This hearing renewed my commitment to fight for NASA jobs at Marshall Space Flight Center and fight for American’s space program so that we can remain the World’s leader. I urge President Obama and his Administration to keep the Constellation program and give NASA the appropriate funding to remain a World leader.”Since the announcement of the President’s proposal to end human space flight, Congressman Aderholt has worked with a bipartisan group of lawmakers to stop the plan and hold the Administration accountable to its activities relating to NASA and any policy change. Other lawmakers who have worked with Congressman Aderholt on this issue are Rep. John Culberson (R-TX), Rep. Parker Griffith (R-AL), Rep. Frank Wolf (R-VA), Rep. Suzanne Kosmas (D-FL), Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA), Rep. Ralph Hall (R-TX), Rep. Gene Green (D-TX), Rep. Pete Olson (R-TX) and Rep. Sonny Posey (R-FL).On Friday, March 12th, Congressman Aderholt wrote a letter to the Government Accountability Office (GAO) asking for an investigation into whether NASA’s actions regarding the Constellation program, as well as the extent to which it is working on a new, unauthorized plan, violates law.On February 12th, Congressman Aderholt was joined by 28 House lawmakers in asking NASA Chief Charles Bolden to confirm or deny reports that NASA was prematurely beginning the process of ending the Constellation program, and raised the issue of whether NASA’s refusal to spend FY10 funds on the Constellation program represents a violation of law (the Impoundment Act). On February 24th, Congressman Aderholt pressed President Obama’s top science and technology advisor, Dr. John P. Holdren, during an Appropriations subcommittee, on the Administration’s plan to end Constellation. ####
03.21.2010	CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT STATEMENT ON TONIGHT’S HEALTH CARE BILLWASHINGTON, DC. - Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) tonight issued the following statement after voting against the latest Democrat health care bill. The bill passed by the vote of 219-212."Since the summer of last year, my position on health care reform has been that our nation could benefit from reform, but not the type of big government takeover that President Obama, Nancy Pelosi and Harry Reid have pushed on us.”“This bill will make unnecessarily drastic changes to our nation’s health care policy during a time when our economy is in recession and unemployment is high. This massive legislation takes away freedom, threatens the existence of private health insurance plans and creates new federal bureaucracies, boards, and commissions in an industry that is responsible for one-sixth of our economy.”“I also do not believe that this legislation will protect the unborn because this bill in no way includes clear and direct provisions that would prohibit federal funding of abortions. The Executive Order from President Obama on abortion does not resolve the issue because of the many legal obstacles in place due to precedents set by the Supreme Court Ruling of Roe v. Wade. In addition, Executive Orders can be undone or modified as quickly as they are created by the signature of the President at any time.” “It is clear that the American people agree with me and the 212 Representatives who voted against this bill tonight. Sadly, the Washington Democrats have chosen to ignore us. However, I am encouraged in knowing that the American people will have their say in November.” Congressman Aderholt has fought the Democrat health care plan since the summer of last year, but also co-sponsored an alternative solution in July, called the "Empowering Patients First Act" (H.R. 3400). Aderholt voted against the first Democrat health care bill in the House on Saturday, November 7, 2009. The bill passed by a vote of 220-215, however Aderholt continued to fight for responsible health care reform that will help Alabama and not take away the freedom that patients and doctors need.####
03.19.2010	CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT OFFICE TO REMAIN OPEN ALL WEEKEND AS HEALTH CARE VOTE LOOMSAderholt: “I plan on voting against this government takeover of health care bill”WASHINGTON, DC. - Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today announced that he will keep the 4th Congressional District offices, along with his Washington office, open this weekend as the Democrat’s health care bill is expected to be voted on sometime Sunday afternoon.Congressman Aderholt has fought the Democrat’s big government health care plan since the summer of last year, but also co-sponsored an alternative solution in July, called the "Empowering Patients First Act" (H.R. 3400). Congressman Aderholt also hosted a public townhall meeting in the 4th District in September, in which he voiced his opposition to the Democrat health care bill.Aderholt voted against the Democrat health care bill in the House on Saturday, November 7, 2009. The bill passed by a vote of 220-215, however Aderholt has remained opposed.“The 4th District field offices will remain open this weekend to serve and to take constituents comments on this latest version of the health care bill,” said Congressman Aderholt.“The President’s reform proposal is very powerful and will make dramatic changes to our Nation’s health care policy,” said Congressman Aderholt. “This proposal is a bill that will take away choices, threaten the existence of private health insurance and create new federal bureaucracies, boards, and commissions in an industry that is responsible for one-sixth of our economy.”“And worst of all, this health care bill would permit federal funds to subsidize plans covering abortions. The American people not only disagree with this health care plan, but they soundly reject that their hard earned tax dollars should pay for abortions.”Aderholt continued, “There is no question that we need to address the health care problems that we are currently dealing with in this country. However, the Obama Pelosi Reid health care plan adds up to way too much spending, too much bureaucracy, numerous unfair mandates and more government control in an area where more government just doesn’t belong.”####
03.15.2010	Contact: Darrell "DJ" Jordan202-225-4876ADERHOLT OFFERS A MOTION THAT WOULD PROHIBIT FEDERAL FUNDING OF ABORTIONS IN HEALTH CARE BILLWASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-AL) today cosponsored a motion during the House Budget Committee markup that would prohibit federal funding of abortions in the latest health care bill.In conjunction with Congressman Jim Jordan (R-OH), Aderholt asked that the Bart Stupak pro-life amendment that passed the House on November 11, 2009 be applied to the Reconciliation Act of 2010 that will amend the Senate-passed health care bill, reportedly this week. The Stupak Amendment passed the House by a vote of 240 – 194 back in November.Today’s amendment offered by Aderholt and Jordan was rejected by a vote of 17-19.Of the 24 Democrats in attendance at today’s Budget Committee markup, only 3 voted for the motion, Reps. Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Rep. Marion Berry (D-AR), and Rep. Jim Langevin (D-RI). Notably, Budget Committee Chairman John Spratt (D-SC) and Rep. Bob Etheridge (D-NC) both voted for the Stupak amendment in November but voted against the amendment in Committee today. “The Democrat’s latest health care bill would permit federal funds to subsidize plans covering abortion and it would permit a multi-state health plan to offer abortion coverage,” said Congressman Aderholt. “The American people not only disagree with this health care plan, but they soundly reject that their hard earned tax dollars should pay for abortions. I disagree with the Obama Pelosi Reid Democrat-majority health care bill, but it also seems obvious to me that the pro-life Stupak Amendment should be included in the bill.”Also on Monday, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said that she would not modify language addressing federal funding for abortion services under the Senate-passed version of health care overhaul (HR 3590).####You can view Rep. Aderholt’s remarks during the markup here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VXoM_BiFvDU
03.15.2010	Contact: Darrell "DJ" Jordan202-225-4876ADERHOLT ASKS GAO TO INVESTIGATE NASA’S CONSTELLATION ACTIVITIES FOR POSSIBLE ILLEGAL ACTIVITYNASA Has Cancelled Constellation Contracts Since The President’s Proposal Was Announced WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-AL) on Friday wrote a letter to the Government Accountability Office (GAO) asking for an investigation into whether NASA’s actions regarding the Constellation program, as well as the extent to which it is working on a new, unauthorized plan, violates law.On February 1, 2010, the President Obama Administration announced its FY2011 Budget, which proposes to eliminate the NASA Constellation program. Since that time, NASA has cancelled or put on hold numerous contracts which were a part of the regular, FY10 work for the Constellation program, despite the fact that Congress must first approve its termination before it becomes final policy. According to the FY2010 “Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2009” (H.R.3288), which passed the House on December 10th , the Senate on December 14th, and signed into law on December 16, 2009, NASA cannot terminate the current Constellation program, without Congress passing law to provide or end funding for such programs.The exact language of the bill reads, “…none of the funds provided herein and from prior years that remain available for obligation during fiscal year 2010 shall be available for the termination or elimination of any program, project or activity of the architecture for the Constellation program nor shall such funds be available to create or initiate a new program, project or activity, unless such program termination, elimination, creation or initiation is provided in subsequent appropriation Acts.”This language requires the Administration to wait for Congressional approval prior to changing any plans to Constellation. Since the “initiation” of a new plan is also prohibited, Congressman Aderholt’s letter also raises the question of whether the use of staff time represents an initiation of a new plan rather than simply planning activities. Since the announcement of the President’s proposal to end human space flight, Congressman Aderholt has worked with a bipartisan group of lawmakers to stop the plan and hold the Administration accountable to its activities relating to NASA and any policy change.On February 12th, Congressman Aderholt was joined by 28 House lawmakers in asking NASA Chief Charles Bolden to confirm or deny reports that NASA was prematurely beginning the process of ending the Constellation program, and raised the issue of whether NASA’s refusal to spend FY10 funds on the Constellation program represents a violation of law (the Impoundment Act). On February 24th, Congressman Aderholt pressed President Obama’s top science and technology advisor, Dr. John P. Holdren, during an Appropriations subcommittee, on the Administration’s plan to end Constellation. Aderholt will have the opportunity to directly address NASA Administrator Charles Bolden, as he is expected to testify before the House CJS Subcommittee on Appropriations the week of March 22nd.Congressman Aderholt’s Friday request for investigation is specifically addressed to GAO Comptroller General Mr. Gene L. Dodaro. The Government Accountability Office (GAO) is the nonpartisan audit, evaluation, and investigative arm of the United States Congress.Congressman Aderholt serves on the powerful House Appropriations Committee, as a member of the Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee, which is responsible for funding NASA.####The full letter and list of co-signers is below. Co-Signers:1. Rep. Robert Aderholt (R-AL)2. Rep. Parker Griffith (R-AL)3. Rep. Spencer Bachus (R-AL)4. Rep. Jo Bonner (R-AL)5. Rep. Mike Rogers (R-AL)6. Rep. John Culberson (R-TX)7. Rep. Suzanne Kosmas (D-FL)8. Rep. Ralph Hall (R-TX)9. Rep. Bill Posey (R-FL)10. Rep. Pete Olson (R-TX)11.Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX)12. Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-UT)13. Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA)14. Rep. Gene Green (D-TX)15. Rep. Steve LaTourette (R-OH)16. Rep. John Fleming (R-LA)March 12, 2010The Honorable Gene L. DodaroActing Comptroller General441 G Street, NWWashington, DC 20548Dear Acting Comptroller General Dodaro:We are writing to ask that you investigate NASA’s actions with regard to the attached bill language from the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2009. We seek your legal opinion as to whether NASA has complied with the language. As you can see, the language both prohibits the termination of programs, projects, and activities which are part of the Constellation program, and it also prohibits the initiation of those actions with regard to new programs. The programs in question are part of the Exploration account. For the Constellation programs, our questions center on what actions NASA has taken with regard to current contracts, but perhaps even more importantly, contracts which were a planned part of Fiscal Year 2010 progress. While the word contract does not appear in the bill language (it is in the report language), this question naturally occurs: to what extent can planned contracts be cancelled, suspended, or slowed and the agency still be considered to have not terminated the program? NASA has of course announced its intention to cancel Constellation. We believe that interpretation of this bill language should take into account the fact that these activities are not easily stopped and started but rather are long-term contract plans (as long as 36 months out) involving highly specialized engineering teams both in government and in the private sector. Secondly, NASA is instructing its employees to conserve FY10 funds, and is referring to the Anti-Deficiency Act as a legal requirement that they do so – because of the President’s intention to cancel Constellation. We believe that this act does not apply to the situation, particularly given the fact that Congress has specifically forbidden the termination not just of the program, but of programs and activities. Congress, therefore, not NASA, is responsible for contract shutdown costs and will provide them – in FY11, in the event that Congress approves the President’s plan in whole or in part. Furthermore, we wish you to investigate whether NASA is in fact violating the Impoundment Act by withholding FY10 funds rather than proceeding with contracts which represent a normal schedule of FY10 activity implied by Congress’s refusal to allow NASA to terminate the Constellation program. (In essence, a complicated engineering program like this is either allowed to proceed according to its contract schedule, or it is in effect, terminated). Thirdly, and finally, NASA seems to be using quite a few employees to work on the new plans. This work may be far more extensive than simply discussing options and plans. Rather, senior-level program personnel seem to be spending all of their days on the new plans instead of on the Constellation programs, projects, and activities which are their jobs (according to the FY10 bill language). As of today’s date, NASA had not provided an answer to Congressional staff inquiries submitted on February 22 asking who is working on the new plans, how much of their work day those assignments represent, and from what payroll account they are paid. This last point is important since it is unlikely that there is substantial payroll funding leftover from previous fiscal years. If NASA’s actions do indeed comprise the initiation of a new program, and FY10 funds are being used to pay those personnel, NASA is in violation of the bill language and these planning activities must stop immediately. We ask that you put a high priority on this matter and ask that you report on it first, separate from the other aspects, with the goal of a conclusion in approximately 60 days, as opposed to the typical 100 to 120 days required. Thank you for your consideration. We look forward to your reply. Sincerely,####
03.11.2010	CONGRESSMAN ROBERT ADERHOLT STATEMENT ON THE HOUSE GOP EARMARK MORATORIUMWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today issued the following statement after House Republicans adopted a one year moratorium on all earmarks, including tax and trade-related earmarks:“For many Americans, the earmark process has become a symbol of why Washington is broken. However for myself, the use of earmarks has proven to be an effective way to assist many rural communities across the 4th Congressional District of Alabama.”“During my service in Congress, I have requested funding for worthy north Alabama projects in an open manner which makes sure the process is transparent. Whether it be for much-needed police equipment to help protect individuals from harm, funding help for a drug task force to fight the meth problem across our state or aid for a water project to help bring jobs into a rural area, my funding requests have been for deserving projects, unlike some of the outlandish earmarks that have made all the national headlines in the past.” “The problem with earmarks hasn’t been spending, since earmarks make up less than 1% of the annual budget and all of the money would be spent by federal agencies anyway. The most effective way to reign in the government deficit is to reform bureaucratic spending.”“The founding fathers rightfully gave Congress the power of the purse in the Constitution. One of the fears that I, along with other members of Congress, have in simply handing earmark power to the Obama administration is that the majority of federal taxpayer dollars may be distributed to states with large urban cities, like New York and California, and rural states like Alabama may simply be left out.”“Nevertheless, in order to win back the trust of the American people, I will abide by this temporary moratorium and join House Republicans in leading the way to repair Congress’ reputation. The corruption surrounding unethical earmarks must end and I support addressing this issue.”“As it relates to appropriated funding for the nation, I will continue to work with the Alabama delegation to help ensure that Alabama receives its’ fair share of federal funding.” ####
03.04.2010	ADERHOLT "EXTREMELY PLEASED" THAT NASA MAY BE RECONSIDERING ENDING CONSTELLATION WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) made the following statement after learning that NASA may be considering a "Plan B" to the President's proposal to end Constellation. Congressman Aderholt serves on the powerful House Appropriations Committee, as a member of the Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee, which is responsible for funding NASA. On February 24th, Congressman Aderholt pressed President Obama’s top science and technology advisor, Dr. John P. Holdren, on the Administration’s plan to end Constellation, during an Appropriations subcommittee hearing, pleading with him to scrap the plan to end Constellation and give NASA the appropriate funding to remain a world leader in human space flight. “I am extremely pleased that NASA may be reconsidering the President’s proposal to cancal human space flight. Since the President announced his Budget last month, I and many of my Republican and Democrat colleagues have expressed our disapproval of the plan, along with our desire in continuing with Constellation. But the fight is not over. I will continue to work on this because I believe that human spaceflight and exploration beyond earth is the very reason for NASA’s existence.”####
03.01.2010	What has Congressman Aderholt done to fight the Democrat Health Care Bill? The following is a statement from Congressman Aderholt on the Democrat Health Bill:"Another massive expansion of government control over our individual liberty that also explodes our country's debt is not the way that America should be moving. Therefore, I strongly oppose the Democrat health care reform bill.""I believe that our system needs reform but this proposal is simply not the right plan. The goal of Congress should be to address and fix what's broken, as opposed to breaking what's working in our nation. Time and time again the American people have made it clear that they oppose this health care bill and I hope the American people get their wish by seeing this bill defeated."Here are some things that Congressman Aderholt did to fight the massive Democrat Health Care Bill:1. Rep. Aderholt has strongly opposed the Democrat health care bill since the summer of last year. 2. Rep. Aderholt co-sponsored an alternative solution last July (called the "Empowering Patients First Act" H.R. 3400). 3. Rep. Aderholt voted against the House Democrat health care bill on Saturday, Nov. 7, 2009.4. Rep. Aderholt voted for the only Republican plan that was allowed to come to the floor for a vote on Nov. 7, 2009, House Republican Leader John Boehner’s substitute amendment to Speaker Pelosi's health care bill. It failed 258-176.5. Rep. Aderholt hosted a public townhall meeting on Thursday, Sept. 10th in Albertville, in which he voiced his strong opposition to the Democrat health care bill.6. Rep. Aderholt gave a speech on the House floor about how harmful the Democrat health care bill would be to Americans on July 28th and Oct. 27th 7. Rep. Aderholt has written 2 newspaper op-ed columns about his opposition to the Democrat health care bill. The last op-ed was also published in a national media website (Tucker Carlson’s The Daily Caller) last week.8. Rep. Aderholt has done numerous TV and radio interviews about his opposition to the Democrat health care bill. Here are just a few in the last month alone! --Huntsville WVNN Radio/Dale Jackson show Tuesday, March 16th --Huntsville Cumulus Radio stations Sunday, March 14th --Birmingham WAPI Radio/Matt Murphy show Wednesday, March 3rd 9. Rep. Aderholt signed onto a resolution to block the so-called “Slaughter Solution”, the scheme by which Democratic leaders are seeking to pass the Senate’s health care bill without actually voting on it. The measure is intended to force an actual up-or-down House vote on the Senate health care bill. 10. Rep. Aderholt voted against the 2nd Democrat health care bill in the House on Sunday, March 21, 2010. Thank-You for visiting Congressman Aderholt's website
02.26.2010	CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT HONORS GENERAL LARRY DODGEN WITH A CONGRESSIONAL RECORD STATEMENTWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) on Thursday entered the following statement into the Congressional Record in honor of Lieutenant General Larry Dodgen.Click HERE to see the Government Printing Office copy of the Congressional record. TRIBUTE TO LIEUTENANT GENERAL LARRY DODGENHON. ROBERT B. ADERHOLT OF ALABAMAIN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESThursday, February 25, 2010Mr. ADERHOLT. Madam Speaker, I would like to offer my condolences to the family of LTG Larry Lodgen, former head of the Army’s Aviation and Missile Command at Redstone Arsenal.On February 20, 2010, I along with many others across the State and Nation were saddened to hear of the passing of Retired LTG Larry Dodgen. Dodgen served in the U.S. Army from 1972 to 2006. He was awarded the Defense Distinguished Service Medal, the Legion of Merit with two oak leaf clusters, the Meritorious Service Medal with four oak leaf clusters, the Army Commendation Medal and the ArmyAchievement Medal.Lieutenant General Dodgen served as the Commanding General of the U.S. Army Aviation and Missile Command, near Huntsville, Alabama, from September 10, 2001, to December 16, 2003. After retiring from the Army in 2006, Lieutenant General Dodgen worked as sector vice president and deputy general manager of the Missile Defense Division within Northrop Grumman’s Mission Systems sector. Lieutenant General Dodgen will be remembered for his outstanding leadership, effective communication, and for making safety and security the top priority for both his troops and their families. It was an honor to work with him, and I know he was well-liked and respected throughout Congress.Our thoughts and prayers are with his wife Leslie and her family and friends.####
02.24.2010	ADERHOLT CHALLENGES THE PRESIDENT’S SCIENCE ADVISOR ON THE ELIMINATION OF HUMAN SPACE FLIGHTWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-AL) today pressed President Obama’s top science and technology advisor, Dr. John P. Holdren, on the Administration’s plan to end Constellation, during an Appropriations subcommittee hearing today. Rep. Aderholt serves on the powerful House Appropriations Committee, as a member of the Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee, which is responsible for funding NASA. Today’s hearing was widely considered as a lead-up to another Appropriations hearing with NASA Administrator Charlie Bolden in March.Dr. John Holdren is the advisor to President Barack Obama for Science and Technology and Director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy. The current White House Office of Science and Technology Policy grew out of the Office of Science and Technology which was formed in 1961 by President John F. Kennedy to provide advice and recommendation in response to the growing importance of space exploration.Congressman Aderholt made the following statement moments after the hearing.“The President’s decision to end the Constellation program is reckless and could cripple U.S. human spaceflight for an unknown number of years. Relying on commercial companies that in some cases have little experience with building manned space systems will severely weaken our standing as the world’s leader in human space flight.” “I appreciate Dr. Holdren’s attendance at today’s hearing; however his testimony and answers simply did not calm my fears that our nation’s space program will not remain a leading science program. When asked repeatedly about whether Dr. Holdren and the administration had a human space flight plan other than Ares moving forward, he could not give an answer. When asked if the administration specifically knows how many jobs will be lost because of this drastic policy change, Dr. Holdren, again, could not give an answer. It is my goal to hold this Administration accountable until they are able to answer these questions.”“I urge President Obama and the administration to scrap this plan to end Constellation and give NASA the appropriate funding to remain a world leader.”#### Congressman Robert Aderholt Question & Answer Transcript:“Dr. Holdren, Thank you for being here today and for your testimony.” “In recent years, the entire discretionary budget request averaged just under one trillion dollars.” “President Obama’s budget requests average over $3 trillion – not counting stimulus bills – so I hoped the NASA request would include realistic dollar amounts for human exploration.” “The Augustine Commission suggested $2-3 billion more per year for ANY of the human space flight options to be realistic.” “This budget plan, however, flushes away $9 billion invested in Constellation, commits the U.S. taxpayer to at least $2 billion more dollars to shut down those programs, and it provides a top-line increase of slightly more than $1 billion per year for five years.” “It terminates the only launch, and capsule, programs which have been guided by NASA’s safety criteria to the level of being human rated by NASA.” “This plan abandons any hope of astronauts actually going anywhere, beyond the station, for at least 20 years. I am aware of the OMB statement of NASA’s mission of getting ready to go to Mars. But these science projects should be worked on at the same times as launch systems like Constellation which will actually get us somewhere.”Rep. Aderholt Question:“My first question is about the speed with which NASA is shutting down Constellation even though the commercial options for human spaceflight are not ready. Fixed costs for launching Ares I would be about $1.2 billion a year; any launch system is going to have that high a cost or higher.”“The marginal cost, or cost per rocket, would be about $120 million for Ares I, plus about $50 million for the Orion capsule. The latest estimate for a completed Falcon 9 is about $130 million. Meanwhile, we should note that the original March 2006 contracts NASA signed with the two companies which won COTS contracts called for 3 demonstration flights by the fall of 2008, showing the ability to deliver cargo to the International Space Station. Almost four years later, we are still waiting on that first flight.” “The transfer of human spaceflight missions to commercial companies only goes against, the 2005 and 2008 Space Act bills, the 2008 Aerospace Safety Advisory Panel report, the 2009 Aerospace Safety Advisory Panel report, and even the Augustine Commission, which recommended a backup launch plan.” “The intent of Congress was clearly that NASA would continue these programs until Congress made a decision on the President’s proposals. Isn’t it a big risk to our space program for NASA to be aggressively cancelling and freezing all Constellation contracts which were on schedule to be awarded this year?” Dr. Holdren’s reply:“First of all Congressman, I believe we are talking about the FY 2011 budget year that is the President’s proposal as to what he would like to do in 2011, which obviously will be put in front of this committee and other committees. As I understand it, and I read your letter to the NASA administrator, and as I understand it… NASA won’t be terminating these contracts at this point. It is not in violation of the statute. It is not NASA’s intention or the administration’s intention to violate the statute. We know we need to work with congress to execute this change in approach in NASA’s human space program. There is no intention of violating the law and I don’t believe the law is being violated.”“My understanding is… that is what was given to you in the letter. Contract Law and Contract management is not my area of expertise so I rely on the materials I’ve been given and what the Administrator and his staff give me, which is that they believe that they are in compliance with the law. And the intention is to work with the Congress to implement the change in direction in the human space flight program and putting a heavier emphasis on development of new technologies which have been outlined in the administration’s FY 2011 budget.”Rep. Aderholt question:“The two Space Act bills passed by Congress in 2005 and 2008 supported some commercial space flight development but never to the point of eliminating our primary launch and capsule plans. NASA has spent $500 million on the COTS program. You want to add another $312 million – an additional 60 percent – on top of the $500 million; and then another $500 million on top of that in FY11 for commercial crew; and then billions more. Can you provide us with the market study you did which proves that multiple rocket companies can survive without continued taxpayer support, and can you tell us how many jobs are created in the first two years and how many jobs are lost?”Dr. Holdren’s reply:“It is my impression that there has been a number of market studies presumably done by some of these companies and some of their investors about what the cost in this industry are. I’m not personally familiar with those studies and I can’t tell you what particular studies say or about the number of jobs. I have seen estimates that something like 1700 jobs could be associated with the early phases of the birth of the commercial space industry as envisioned by the president’s proposal. But again, this is not my domain of expertise: the economic assessments are the jobs of others who look at it more closely.”“I’m sure there have been market studies, I mean, these folks aren’t crazy. They aren’t investing their own money without having done some studies to determine…I’m not personally aware. I’ll get back to you if you want.”####
02.01.2010	ADERHOLT STATEMENT ON THE PRESIDENT’S FY2011 NASA BUDGET PROPOSAL TO CUT CONSTELLATIONWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-AL) today issued the following statement on the White House Budget spending cuts to the NASA Constellation program. Rep. Aderholt serves on the powerful House Appropriations Committee, as a member of the Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee, which is responsible for funding NASA.“While I am glad to see a commitment by the President to ask for increased funding for human spaceflight, I have to express extreme concern and disapproval of the plan he has laid forth in this request.” “Abandoning a bipartisan Congressionally-approved plan, which has made remarkable progress despite being underfunded for years, is reckless. With the Shuttle almost retired, this new plan would rely on companies that in some cases have little experience with building manned space systems, which could cripple U.S. human spaceflight for an unknown number of years.” “Americans believe human spaceflight and exploration beyond earth is the very reason for NASA’s existence. October’s successful Ares test and this year’s work shows that the Constellation programs are still the best option for our nation to lead the world in space exploration.”“Regarding costs, the necessary multi-year contracts are in place, for Ares I, to secure the high-tech parts necessary as they are needed. Rocket science is still complicated, and this is the business model that works. Even the United Launch Alliance has learned that it is difficult and unwise to try to build every system in-house.” “Under the President’s plan, there is no telling how many years taxpayers could be on the hook while these programs come up to speed. Government oversight exists because of safety concerns. If these criteria are not followed, then the lives of our astronauts are at risk.”“Ares I and the Orion capsule are the only launch systems which have met NASA’s safety criteria. The budget plan revealed today is not supported by conclusions in the recently released 2009 report of the Aerospace Safety Advisory Panel.” “And there are other questions. Who will pay the insurance costs for these projects? And if these companies receive greater control over commercial use of technology developed for NASA, will they reimburse the taxpayers out of their profits?” “Congress will hear from NASA officials during hearings, but major unanswered questions like these are why language in the FY2010 Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Subcommittee Bill bars NASA from making any changes to the Constellation work with FY2010 funding.” ####
02.01.2010	CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT STATEMENT ON THE RELEASE OF THE PRESIDENT’S $3.8 TRILLION BUDGETWASHINGTON, D.C. – Budget Committee member and Appropriations Subcommittee Ranking Member Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-AL) today issued the following statement on the President’s FY2011 $3.8 trillion budget.“Today’s budget clearly shows the differences in governing philosophies between big government liberalism and fiscal conservatism. In the midst of a recession, record unemployment and record deficits, you can’t simply spend your way out of your problems, as President Obama, Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid believe.”“The President’s budget more than doubles the debt, raises taxes by over $2 trillion through 2020, and pushes the deficit to a new record of $1.6 trillion, or 10.6% of GDP, which is the largest deficit as a share of the economy since World War II. This path is simply unsustainable.” “Of the many issues that I have with this budget’s spending priorities, it sacrifices Alabama jobs with the end of the proven Constellation program. Once again, the president is trading off real jobs, current jobs, which produced Time Magazine’s best invention last year, for theoretical future jobs by beginner-rocket companies which have not yet even demonstrated the ability to fly cargo to the International Space Station.”“Over the next several months, I intend to work diligently with the Appropriations Committee to promote wise spending priorities and bring fiscal responsibility back to our nation’s Capitol. This is what the American people demand out of Washington.”“Americans across the country can see that this is not a responsible way to manage the federal budget, and they know that yet another $100 billion in scarce taxpayer dollars to continue failed ‘stimulus’ programs will do little to create jobs or improve the nation’s economy.”“We must get our fiscal house back in order because a government that spends too much, borrows too much and taxes too much will not sustain itself.”####Congressman Robert Aderholt is serving his seventh term as the U.S. Representative of the Fourth Congressional District of Alabama. Rep. Aderholt serves on the powerful House Appropriations Committee, as the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Legislative Branch, and a member of the Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee. Rep. Aderholt also serves on the House Budget Committee and the Helsinki Commission
01.27.2010	ADERHOLT STATEMENT ON PRESIDENT OBAMA’S STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS SPEECHWashington, DC - Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) issued the following statement tonight after the President’s State Of The Union address.“President Obama, House Speaker Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Reid must remember President Abraham Lincoln's saying that our government is of the people, by the people, and for the people. They have chosen to ignore the will of the American people on issue after issue - especially on the issue of healthcare.”“The fact of the matter is that smaller government, and less government interference will help our nation and the problems that we face now. It is time that this president and liberal Congress supported policies that trusts the judgment and ingenuity of the American people.”“I am pleased that the President wants to address the nation’s unemployment problems and the hurting middle class families, but he must realize that this can only be done by restoring fiscal discipline to Washington. A 10% unemployment rate is proof that runaway federal spending, trillion-dollar deficits, borrowing, bailouts and big government schemes in energy and health care just doesn’t work.”“The minimal three year spending freeze that the President has proposed is a start in the right direction, but it is just that, a start. We must abandon big-government policies and pass a budget that reduces spending and reduces taxes on the American people.”####Congressman Robert Aderholt is serving his seventh term as the U.S. Representative of the Fourth Congressional District of Alabama. Rep. Aderholt serves on the powerful House Appropriations Committee, as the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Legislative Branch, and a member of the Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee. Rep. Aderholt also serves on the House Budget Committee and the Helsinki Commission
01.22.2010	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876 ADERHOLT SPEAKS AT THE “MARCH FOR LIFE” RALLY IN WASHINGTONAderholt: More Americans Are Identifying Themselves As Pro-LifeWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today spoke to thousands of pro-life Americans who took part in the March For Life in Washington DC. Today marks the 37th anniversary of Roe v. Wade, the US Supreme Court decision that established a woman's right to terminate a pregnancy. The March For Life began in 1974 as a protest of that Roe v Wade court decision and the yearly “march” has grown from 20,000 passionate pro-lifers in 1974 to more than about 200,000 today.A May 2009 Gallup Poll said that more Americans are calling themselves “pro-life” on the issue of abortion. The poll’s findings claimed that 51% of Americans call themselves "pro-life" on the issue of abortion and 42% "pro-choice." This is the first time a majority of U.S. adults have identified themselves as pro-life since Gallup began asking this question in 1995.“Thank-You to the thousands of people who marched in the cold today in support for the unborn, on this day, the 37th anniversary of Roe vs. Wade,” said Congressman Aderholt. “The message that all life is precious was boldly proclaimed in Washington today.”Aderholt continued, “More and more Americans are identifying themselves as pro-life and I believe that people like those who marched today have something to do with that shift in America. The issue of abortion and the sanctity of life is something that I feel strongly about and I encourage my colleagues to look for ways to curb and stop abortions in the United States, while compassionately educating on this important issue."###CLICK HERE to see the video of the short speech.
12.18.2009	ADERHOLT ASKS OBAMA ADMINISTRATION TO PROTECT JOBS IN NORTH ALABAMAWinston County Company Could Be Hurt By Unfair Trade Policy WASHINGTON, D.C. – In an effort to protect jobs in North Alabama, Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) recently led a group of Congressmen in urging the Commerce Department and United States Trade Representative to change trade rules to benefit North Alabama manufacturing.A recently passed bill in the House of Representatives (H.R. 4284) extends a December 31st deadline for duty-free benefits for sleeping bags by one year, which would severely handicap a North Alabama company called Exxel Outdoors, Inc. Because of a program called the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) benefits program, companies may move their operations to countries like Bangladesh in order to take advantage of lower costs and different trade policy. This would cause companies like Exxel Outdoors, Inc. to lose business and possibly close down. The Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) is a program designed to promote economic growth in the developing world by providing preferential duty-free entry for about 4,800 products from over 130 designated beneficiary countries and territories.On December 10, 2009, Congressman Aderholt wrote a letter to President Obama’s top trade officials, Commerce Secretary Gary Locke and Trade Representative Ron Kirk, requesting that the U.S. eliminate sleeping bags from the list of GSP eligible products. Alabama Senators Jeff Sessions and Richard Shelby have also worked in the Senate to change this policy. On Wednesday, Sen. Jeff Sessions received a commitment from Trade Representative Kirk to re-evaluate the eligibility of sleeping bag imports to come in duty-free under the Generalized System of Preferences program.“I’m very pleased that Ambassador Kirk has agreed to re-evaluate Exxel’s petition and I hope that the U.S. Trade Representative will remove sleeping bags from eligibility for duty-free treatment under GSP. This will keep jobs in America and make sure that companies like Exxel Outdoors, Inc. are able to operate on an even playing field with international industries who aren’t subject to the same taxes,” said Congressman Aderholt. “During a time of record unemployment, it is important that we do more to save jobs in North Alabama, including ensuring that our trade policy is fair for local manufacturing companies.”"We deeply thank Rep. Aderholt for his efforts in spearheading this group of Congressmen to advocate on behalf of Exxel Outdoors and saving American jobs,” said Exxel Outdoors, Inc. founder and CEO Harry Kazazian. “I know this also means a great deal to our Haleyville employees and their families."Exxel Outdoors, Inc. produces over 2 million sleeping bags per year in Haleyville, accounting for about 30 percent of the U.S. sleeping bag market. Harry Kazazian purchased the factory when it was almost shut down in 2000, then hired back its employees to re-open. Exxel began moving its sleeping bag production operations from China to Alabama in 2005, and now produces 80% of its bags in Alabama. It also moved some operations from Mexico to Haleyville, proving that U.S. workers can compete in the global market. The company hopes to eventually bring all production operations to Haleyville. The following Congressmen joined Rep. Aderholt’s letter: Rep. Spencer Bachus (R-AL), Rep. Jo Bonner (R-AL), Rep. Bobby Bright (D-AL), Rep. Christopher Carney (D-PA), Rep. Artur Davis (D-AL), Rep. Parker Griffith (D-AL), Rep. Walter Jones (R-NC), Rep. Mike Rogers (R-AL), and Rep. Zach Wamp (R-TN).####
12.15.2009	ADERHOLT CO-SPONSORS A CONGRESSIONAL RESOLUTION TO HONOR ALABAMA STANDOUT MARK INGRAMWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today co-sponsored a congressional resolution (H. Res. 972) honoring Mark Ingram for being the first University of Alabama football player to win the Heisman trophy. Ingram was awarded the Heisman on Saturday night in New York, becoming only the third sophomore in history to win the award.“Congrats to Alabama running back Mark Ingram for being the first Alabama player to win the Heisman Trophy on Saturday night,” said Congressman Aderholt. “It’s amazing to think that he is the first Tide player to win the award considering all of the program’s success, including 22 SEC championships, 12 national championships and the opportunity to add another one this year.”“Mark Ingram joins Auburn greats, Pat Sullivan and Bo Jackson, as the only Heisman winners from universities in the state of Alabama. He has maintained success in the classroom with a 3.0 grade point average and has made the Dean’s List at the University of Alabama. Ingram’s Heisman brings tremendous pride to our state, as we are very proud of his accomplishments, both on and off the field.”Mark Ingram also led the University of Alabama to victory over the Univ. of Florida in the SEC Championship, including gaining 113 yards and three touchdowns. Ingram was awarded the SEC Offensive Player of the Year Award and was unanimously picked as a first-team Associated Press All-American.####
12.09.2009	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876 ADERHOLT STATEMENT ON NASA AND THE OMNIBUS APPROPRIATIONS CONFERENCE AGREEMENT WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today issued the following statement on the conference approval of the FY2010 Omnibus Appropriations Bill, which includes $18.7 billion for NASA, an increase over the FY 2009 budget. This omnibus bill, which was passed last night by conferees from both the House and the Senate appropriations committees, lumps together six bills -- the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Bill, the Labor, HHS & Education Appropriations Bill, the Transportation & HUD Appropriations Bill, the State & Foreign Operations Bill, the Military Construction-Veterans Affairs Bill and the Financial Services Appropriations Bill.Rep. Aderholt serves on the powerful House Appropriations Committee as the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Legislative Branch, and a member of the Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee.“There is much concern about the overall increase in spending of this Omnibus Appropriations Bill. I will review the agreement before the final vote later this week; I am, however, pleased with the funding for NASA.” “This conference agreement includes two matters which I made a priority this year. It sets Exploration funding for the human spaceflight programs at $3.4664 billion, which restores the funding level to the President’s full request for Fiscal Year 2010. Also, I am pleased that the Senate funding of the Ares V heavy lift cargo vehicle was retained, which includes at least $100 million.”“Secondly, this agreement requires additional appropriations legislation in order to terminate any existing NASA program, or initiate any new exploration program. Congress will review and evaluate any new proposals from NASA, but this year’s work shows that the Constellation programs of Ares I and Ares V and Orion are still the best plan for our nation to lead the world in space exploration.” “Many Americans believe human spaceflight and exploration beyond earth is the very reason for NASA’s existence. I believe we should push ahead with more aggressive tests on the Ares I, which performed wonderfully in its first test flight in late October. It is the safest and best way to get cargo and astronauts to the International Space Station and beyond.” “In addition, the discovery of ice crystals on the moon holds great promise for a possible lunar mission. I am proud of the work being done on that program and the Ares programs by Marshall Space Flight Center and the contractor community in north Alabama and I look forward to receiving NASA’s FY11 budget proposal.” ###
12.01.2009	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876 CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT STATEMENT ON PRESIDENT OBAMA’S SPEECH ON AFGHANISTAN WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) tonight issued the following statement after the President’s speech on the war in Afghanistan at the United States Military Academy in West Point, NY.?“I commend the President for deciding to deploy more troops to complete the mission laid out by Gen. Stanley McChrystal. This decision brings us closer to success in Afghanistan, which can be defined as a stable country that denies the Taliban and al-Qaeda a safehaven to launch attacks against the Afghan people, Afghanistan’s neighbors, or the United States and its allies.” ?“Even though I support this surge of troops and resources, I caution against any talk of a timetable or “exit-strategy” because of the possibility of signals to the Taliban and al-Qaeda that they can wait for U.S. forces to leave the region.” ?“Lastly, I strongly disagree with any possibility of a “war tax”, which is being discussed by some Democrats in Washington, to offset the cost of any increased military effort in Afghanistan. Instead, Congress must re-prioritize spending to provide for our most vital public service - national defense, while limiting the trend of massive non-essential domestic spending.” ? ####
11.13.2009	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT OPPOSES PRESIDENT OBAMA’S DECISION TO PROSECUTE 9/11 TERRORISTS IN NEW YORK CITYWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) issued the following statement after today’s announcement from the Obama Administration that the U.S. intends to prosecute Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the mastermind of the 9/11 terrorist attacks, and several other Guantanamo Bay detainees in New York City before a civilian federal court.“It is troubling that the Administration has announced that five terrorists being held at Guantanamo Bay are being brought to U.S. soil. I share the concerns expressed by many Americans and some of my colleagues in Congress that this decision could unnecessarily endanger U.S. citizens, who will be a part of this process. There are many risks that should be considered with a trial of this magnitude, including the possible problems of classified information being released. Therefore, I join many of my colleagues in urging the President to reconsider this decision.”####
11.07.2009	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876ADERHOLT VOTES AGAINST THE PELOSI GOV'T TAKEOVER OF HEALTH CARE BILLWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) issued the following statement after voting against the House Democrat Leadership health care bill tonight. The House of Representatives passed the health care bill by the slim voting margin of 220-215. "While I commend the House of Representative for passing the bipartisan Stupak amendment to prohibit federal taxpayers' funding for abortions, this is a disappointing day for the American people. The passing of yet another massive expansion of government control over our individual liberty that also explodes our country's debt is not the way that America should be moving. Therefore, I voted "no" on tonight's healthcare bill, HR 3692.""The goal of Congress should be to address and fix what's broken, as opposed to breaking what's working in our nation. I believe that the people of this country oppose this shocking government takeover of healthcare, which is supported by Speaker Pelosi and President Obama. I hope the voices of the American people will be heard before the bill has the chance of being signed into law."####
10.30.2009	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876ADERHOLT OPPOSES NEW HEALTH CARE PLAN PROPOSED BY SPEAKER PELOSI AND DEMOCRAT LEADERSHIPWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today issued the following statement on this week's introduction of new health care legislation announced by Speaker Nancy Pelosi. “My position has not changed. There is no question that we need to address the health care problems that we are currently dealing with in this country. However, the government takeover of health care that Speaker Nancy Pelosi reintroduced this week still adds up to way too much bureaucracy, numerous unfair mandates and more government control in an area where more government just doesn’t belong.” “In addition, this nearly $1 trillion public-option health care plan does not address issues with abortion & illegal immigration. The biggest noticeable change to Speaker Pelosi’s massive bill (H.R. 3962) is that it is 1,990 pages, compared to the original version (H.R. 3200) which was 1,017 pages.” “I still maintain that a responsible health care reform plan is one that would fix what’s broken in health care without breaking what’s working!”“With that said, I would wholeheartedly support a responsible plan that makes coverage more affordable, accessible and responsive which would include allowing the creation of small business association health plans, while also covering those with pre-existing conditions and scaling back the practice of defensive medicine through tort reform, just to name a few. That’s why I co-sponsored an alternative bill, the Empowering Patients First Act (H.R. 3400).”####
10.28.2009	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT STATEMENT ON TODAY’S SUCCESSFUL ARES 1-X LAUNCH WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today issued the following statement on this morning’s successful Ares 1-X launch at the Kennedy Space Center in Cape Canaveral, Florida. Rep. Aderholt serves on the powerful House Appropriations Committee, as a member of the Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee, which is responsible for discretionary spending for NASA.“I congratulate NASA, and the ATK company and their partners, including Teledyne-Brown, on today’s successful Ares 1-X launch. Tests such as this launch are very important to our understanding of the development of this vehicle as we prepare for a new era in human space exploration. The Ares I is designed to be the safest rocket ever built for launching humans into space and this task is its only purpose.”“Every aspect of the flight launch appeared to operate flawlessly and I am excited about the amount of performance data that today’s flight offers our NASA community in preparation for the completion of Ares I, and the related Constellation Programs.” “I also applaud Marshall Space Flight Center for providing excellent management for the development of Ares I-X avionics, roll control, and first stage systems. I am impressed with the progress that Marshall, and the Boeing Company and their partners, have already made on the upper stage of Ares I. I have and will continue to express my strong support to the Appropriations Committee for fully funding the Ares programs.” ###
10.15.2009	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876 CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT INTRODUCES BILL TO ADDRESS PROBLEMS WITH NOTARY RECOGNITION Legislation Will Help Those Who Do Business Across State Lines WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) introduced legislation on Wednesday in the House of Representatives that will address problems dealing with the recognition of notarizations across state lines. This bill, the “Interstate Recognition of Notarizations Act of 2009” (H.R. 3808), previously passed the House of Representatives during the last Congressional Session on July 17, 2007. However, the legislation was not taken up by the Senate in the 110th Session of Congress.“This legislation would eliminate the confusion which arises when states refuse to acknowledge the integrity of documents notarized out-of-state. This issue continues to be a problem for businesses and individuals who engage in business across state lines,” said Congressman Aderholt. “This legislation offers a commonsense solution to a problem that is more widespread than is generally recognized.”This legislation would require that documents be recognized in any state or federal court if the subject affects interstate commerce and the document is duly notarized by seal or if a seal is tagged to an electronic document. The bill does not preclude the challenge of a notarized document, such as a will contest.Currently, each state is responsible for regulating its notaries. Typically, someone who wishes to become a notary pays a fee, submits an application and takes an oath of office. Some states require applicants to enroll in an educational course, pass an exam, and obtain a notary bond. This legislation does not change how the individual states regulate notaries in any manner. The “Interstate Recognition of Notarizations (IRON) Act of 2009” is expected to be referred to the House Committee on the Judiciary. Representatives Artur Davis (D-AL), Bruce Braley (D-IA) and Rep. Mike Castle (R-DE) are original cosponsors of this bill. ####Congressman Robert Aderholt is serving his seventh term as the U.S. Representative of the Fourth Congressional District of Alabama. Rep. Aderholt serves on the powerful House Appropriations Committee, as the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Legislative Branch, and a member of the Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee. Rep. Aderholt also serves on the House Budget Committee and the Helsinki Commission.
09.24.2009	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876 CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT OFFERS AMENDMENT TO DEFUND ACORN Amendment To End Government Funding Of ACORN Fails By Party-Line VoteWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today offered an Amendment during an Appropriations conference meeting that would defund ACORN for the fiscal year 2010. The Amendment failed on a party-line vote of 4 to 7 with the conference committee Democrats voting to allow the possibility of future funding for ACORN through fiscal year 2010.Aderholt’s amendment would have barred any funds in the fiscal year 2010 Appropriations Acts from going to the embattled community activist group, ACORN or its affiliates.“Every Member of Congress has a responsibility to be good stewards of the resources the American people entrust us with. We must make sure that corrupt organizations like ACORN do not receive any American taxpayer money,” said Congressman Aderholt. “The American people do not want their hard-earned tax dollars to be spent by ACORN to engage in illegal or even illicit activities.”The House of Representatives voted on September 17th to prohibit ACORN from receiving any federal grants by a vote of 345-75. Today’s amendment put forward by Rep. Aderholt would have conclusively ensured that no fiscal year 2010 Appropriations funding would be given to ACORN.ACORN has been featured in various media reports this month amid allegations of wide-spread corruption, including participating in voter fraud, tax evasion, prostitution, and human trafficking. ACORN's voter registration activities were also frequently questioned during the 2008 presidential election cycle.This also comes during a week in which the Census Bureau and the Internal Revenue Service announced that ACORN would no longer be allowed to participate in its volunteer tax assistance program.Congressman Aderholt has been an active supporter of fighting sexual crimes against children, ending prostitution, and other actions that demean women. Today’s amendment is a continuation of Aderholt’s commitment to fighting against crimes that destroy American values.The Legislative Branch Appropriations bill is one of five Appropriations bills that have passed on the floor by both the House and Senate and thus are eligible to be merged, or “conferenced” together. Conferenced bills are voted on by the House and Senate, without amendment, and then sent to the White House for final approval. Congressman Aderholt has been the Ranking Member of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Subcommittee since January of this year.### Congressman Robert Aderholt is serving his seventh term as the U.S. Representative of the Fourth Congressional District of Alabama. Rep. Aderholt serves on the powerful House Appropriations Committee, as the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Legislative Branch, and a member of the Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee. Rep. Aderholt also serves on the House Budget Committee and the Helsinki Commission.
09.18.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:Friday, September 18, 2009Contact: J.P. Duffy or Maria Donovan, 1-866-FRC-NEWSDarrell “DJ” Jordan 202-226-7602 CONGRESSMAN ROBERT ADERHOLT WINS PRO-FAMILY, PRO-LIFE AWARDWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) has been recognized as a “True Blue” Member of Congress by FRC Action and Focus on the Family Action for his unwavering commitment to the family. The award honors Members of Congress who have exhibited extraordinary leadership and commitment to the defense of family, faith, and freedom, according to FRC Action’s scorecard covering House and Senate votes of the 110th Congress. Recipients of the award voted consistently for pro-life and pro-family issues. Congressman Aderholt also won this award in 2008.“Members of the 110th Congress who receive this award have shown themselves to be consistent defenders of faith, family, and freedom, “said FRC Action President Tony Perkins. “I applaud these Members for upholding the institutions of marriage and family even in the face of hostile opposition from the liberal leadership in Congress.”Perkins continued, “Alabama voters should be encouraged by the commitment this True Blue Member has shown.”FRC Action and Focus on the Family Action based this award on votes such as the prohibition on funding human cloning, the Federal Hate Crimes Act, support for the Mexico City Policy on international abortion funding, the Employment Non-Discrimination Act, the restriction of funding to Planned Parenthood and the prevention of DC Same-sex “marriage”.FRC Action is the Legislative Action Arm of the Family Research Council. Focus on the Family Action is a cultural action organization that aims to provide a platform for informing, inspiring and rallying those who care deeply about the family to greater involvement in the moral, cultural and political issues that threaten our nation. ###Photograph information: Congressman Aderholt is awarded the Congressional “True Blue” award by Family Research Council President Tony Perkins and Focus on the Family Action Senior Vice President Tom Minnery on September 17th. (Pictured from Left To Right: Tony Perkins, Congressman Aderholt & Tom Minnery)
08.28.2009	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876 CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT TRAVELS THE 4th CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT FOR THE AUGUST CONGRESSIONAL RECESS PERIODWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) continues to use the August Congressional Recess period as an opportunity to visit constituents throughout the entire Fourth Congressional District of Alabama talking to them about issues facing Congress.Among the most talked-about issues, the President's proposed Health care reform bill and the Cap & Trade Bill, which passed the House and is now stalled in the Senate, remain popular subjects for Alabamians.Congressman Aderholt has visited district events such as the Gadsden Kiwanis Club, the Marshall County AARP picnic, the Russellville Civitan, the Blount County Chamber of Commerce, the Marshall County Manufacturers Association, the University of North Alabama energy conservation ceremony and many others.Below are pictures of various stops during August: PICTURED BELOW: Rep. Aderholt visits Gadsden Job Corp on Wednesday, August 5, 2009 PICTURED BELOW: Rep. Aderholt speaks to the Gadsden Kiwanis Club on Wednesday, August 5, 2009 PICTURED BELOW: Rep. Aderholt takes a tour of a plant in Russeville on Tuesday, August 11, 2009PICTURED BELOW: Rep. Aderholt meets with constituents in Jasper on Thursday, August 13, 2009PICTURED BELOW: Rep. Aderholt receives the "Spirit of Enterprise" award at the Blount County Chamber of Commerce on Wednesday, August 12, 2009PICTURED BELOW: Rep. Aderholt meets with Geraldine School students on Friday, August 14, 2009PICTURED BELOW: Rep. Aderholt meets with Geraldine Fire Department firefighters on Friday, August 14, 2009
08.07.2009	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876ADERHOLT TRAVELS NORTH ALABAMA EXPRESSING HIS DISAPPROVAL WITH THE PRESIDENT’S HEALTHCARE PROPOSALAderholt: President Obama’s Healthcare Plan Is A Terrible IdeaWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) is taking time during the month of August to travel around Alabama’s 4th Congressional District to talk about President Obama’s Healthcare proposal and other legislation that Congress is considering. District stops include the Gadsden Kiwanis Club, the Marshall County AARP picnic, the Russellville Civitan, the Blount County Chamber of Commerce, the Marshall County Manufacturers Association and many others.Click HERE to read more about the Healthcare Reform Bill that Rep. Aderholt has co-sponsored, the “Empower Patients First Act” (H.R. 3400)..Congressman Aderholt released the following statement today as he continues to speak to many 4th District constituents and groups about his fight against government-run healthcare in Washington D.C. “While I had great concern from the beginning about the proposed healthcare legislation proposed by the Democrat leadership in Congress and President Obama, the more I learn about the legislation and the more I talk with constituents, the more firmly I believe that any type of government takeover of healthcare is a terrible idea.”“With federal spending at the highest level in American history, the economy in a recession, and unemployment at an alarmingly high rate, another massive government program with more spending, more borrowing and higher taxes in the name of ‘healthcare reform’ will only hurt already struggling American families not help them.”“A government-run healthcare plan will weaken private insurance and give regulatory decisions to bureaucratic boards that will decide which treatments are appropriate and who is eligible. This would do irreparable harm to an American health care system that, for all its faults, provides the world’s greatest care.”“In addition, the healthcare reform being proposed by the President currently includes taxpayer funded ‘abortion coverage’. This is simply outrageous that some elected officials in Washington want to use taxpayer dollars to fund abortions and I will do everything within my power to stop it.”“Healthcare in this country may not be perfect but I don’t think we should throw out the entire system as we know it. Common sense reform is what we need and that’s why I have co-sponsored a healthcare reform Bill called the “Empower Patients First Act” (H.R. 3400). This legislation would create policy that relies on the principle that, by increasing patients’ control over their health decisions we will make coverage more affordable, accessible and responsive.”“The fact of the matter is that the national debt has already increased by nearly 10% since the President took office. The last thing that our nation needs is another massive federal government spending program that takes away our healthcare freedom and extends our debt for years to come.”####Congressman Robert Aderholt is serving his seventh term as the U.S. Representative of the Fourth Congressional District of Alabama. Rep. Aderholt serves on the powerful House Appropriations Committee, as the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Legislative Branch, and a member of the Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee. Rep. Aderholt also serves on the House Budget Committee and the Helsinki Commission.
07.22.2009	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT OFFERS LEGISLATION TO IMPROVE MISSLE DEFENSE PRODUCTIONWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Alabama) today successfully inserted a requirement into defense legislation that will improve future missile defense production. Rep. Aderholt included a requirement for a report regarding future ground based mid-course missile defense production in the Fiscal Year 2010 Defense Appropriations Bill at a Committee markup hearing this morning.The requirement was included in the Chairman’s managers amendment at Rep. Aderholt’s request and it unanimously passed by voice vote.The manager’s amendment requires that Missile Defense Agency (MDA), within 30 days of enactment of the Bill, submit a report to the Committee indicating what funding is necessary to keep the Ground-Based Interceptor (GBI) production line operational.“This amendment report is very important because if the interceptor work done by Boeing in North Alabama, and the many companies who work with them, is allowed to shut down, the next group of interceptors produced could cost the taxpayer as much as $200 million extra,” said Congressman Aderholt. “This amendment helps eliminate future uncertainty about our nation’s missile defense production and demand.”The amendment report added by Rep. Aderholt also specifies that there be input from the prime contractor and comment by the Missile Defense Agency on its evaluation of the ballistic missile defense study received from the U.S. Northern Command in the Fall of 2008.Congressman Aderholt continued, “We already know that countries like North Korea and Iran are working aggressively to acquire the capability to strike our homeland with ballistic missiles. As long as these threats exist, the funding for missile defense must be prioritized and efficiently planned for many years in advance.”The FY2010 Defense Appropriations bill provides the annual funding for the Department of Defense, including the Departments of Army, Navy (including Marine Corps) and Air Force. In addition it also funds the Central Intelligence Agency. The bill is now expected to be voted on the floor of the House of Representatives next week.###Rep. Aderholt serves on the powerful House Appropriations Committee, as the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Legislative Branch, and a member of the Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee.CLICK BELOW to view a copy of the managers amendment.
07.21.2009	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876ALABAMA REPUBLICANS ASK “WHERE ARE THE JOBS?”Alabama Experiencing Worst Unemployment Since 1984WASHINGTON, D.C. – The members of Alabama’s Republican congressional delegation today made the following statements about the rising unemployment rates in Alabama and the nation after speaking on the floor of the House of Representatives with the unified message, “Where Are The Jobs?” Alabama's June unemployment rate of 10.1%, the highest since 1984, is higher than the national average of 9.5%. At this time last year, Alabama's jobless rate was only 4.6 %.Congressman Jo Bonner (AL-01) said, “Instead of creating new jobs, almost 2.5 million jobs have been lost just since the stimulus bill passed. Nationally, the unemployment rate is 9.5 percent today and inching closer and closer to double digits. In 5 of the 6 counties I represent in south Alabama, that unemployment rate is already at double-digit unemployment. There is a serious lack of credibility in our nation’s capital. Don’t take my word for it, just listen to the American people; they want to know…Where are the jobs?”Congressman Spencer Bachus (AL-06), who had just come from a hearing with Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said, “We asked him, where are the jobs? He couldn’t answer that. He said unemployment would remain high through 2011. He said he’s not sure the stimulus created any jobs. He did answer one important question and he was very certain. He said if we continue to spend like we’re spending today, we are on a rendezvous with financial disaster.”Congressman Mike Rogers (AL-03) said, “The President and Speaker Pelosi came to this House earlier this year and said if you'll borrow and spend $1.1 trillion, which is the largest spending bill in American history, it will save existing jobs and create another three million jobs. Where are those jobs?”Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) said, “Alabama is suffering with a 10.1% unemployment rate and at a time when families are struggling to make ends meet, the rising jobless trend is further evidence that we cannot borrow and spend and bail our way back to a growing economy. Alabama deserves a better strategy for prosperity, not more spending, more taxes and more unemployment.” ###Click HERE to view Rep. Bachus' floor speechClick HERE to view Rep. Aderholt's floor speechClick HERE to view Rep. Bonner's floor speechClick HERE to view Rep. Rogers' floor speech
07.17.2009	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876 CONGRESSMEN ADERHOLT & WAMP OFFER AN AMENDMENT TO RESTORE ABSTINENCE EDUCATION PROGRAM FUNDINGRep. Aderholt Defends Abstinence and Family ValuesWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Alabama) and Congressman Zach Wamp (R-Tennessee) today offered an amendment to restore funding that promotes abstinence and teen pregnancy prevention in the Fiscal Year 2010 Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations Bill at a committee hearing. The amendment was defeated 24-35.The Fiscal Year 2010 Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations bill was originally drafted and submitted in the subcommittee to eliminate all abstinence-only funding which focuses on preventing teenage pregnancies, a provision supported by President Obama.Rep. Aderholt’s amendment would have allowed abstinence-only education organizations which had previously received a 5-year grant to continue receiving this necessary federal funding.“Unfortunately, America’s family values are under attack by many in Washington DC,” said Congressman Aderholt. “With 1 in 4 teen girls having at least 1 sexually transmitted disease and the teen birth rate increasing, it is vital that teens receive comprehensive education that promotes healthy and safe lifestyles.”"Abstinence education works,” said Congressman Zach Wamp. “’Sex education’ should begin at home. Parents should educate their children but if we are going to provide federal funding, we should include abstinence education because abstinence works 100 percent of the time. In Hamilton County, Tenn., we have seen great success in the effectiveness of abstinence education programs to reduce the number of unwanted pregnancies.”According to the National Abstinence Education Association, comprehensive sex education is currently funded at four times the level of abstinence education. Without Rep. Aderholt’s amendment, the House Labor, HHS Appropriations bill will now cut off funding for current abstinence-only education grantees.As a result of the exclusion of this funding, community based abstinence education programs around the country will be terminated or unfunded, including a loss of $2.7 million in grant money for the state of Alabama.Congressman Aderholt also said during today’s hearing, “A 2006 Zogby poll demonstrated that parents prefer abstinence education. In fact, an overwhelming 78% of parents believe that sex education classes should emphasize abstinence.” “Yet, this bill completely strips all funding from the program, and would not even allow existing grantees to complete the terms of their grant.” “Just 9 months ago, this program was funded at $113 million. It was reduced to $95 million under this year’s omnibus bill. But this FY10 Labor-HHS Appropriations bill cut the program entirely.” ###CLICK HERE to see the video of Rep. Aderholt's hearing statement Rep. Aderholt serves on the powerful House Appropriations Committee, as the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Legislative Branch, and a member of the Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee.
07.08.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:Contact: Pickens Plan CommunicationsMollie K. O’Dell (Pickens) 202-507-8289Melissa McKay (Pickens) 212-446-1898Darrell “DJ” Jordan (Aderholt) 202-225-4876 T. Boone Pickens Names Congressman Robert Aderholt an “Energy Independence Crusader”Pickens Applauds Rep. Aderholt’s Support of the NAT GAS Act,Promising to Reduce Foreign Oil ImportsWASHINGTON — Energy expert T. Boone Pickens today commended Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-AL) for his commitment to helping America break its dangerous dependence on foreign oil. Appearing at the U.S. Capitol to mark the anniversary of the launch of the Pickens Plan and Energy Independence Day, the oil executive turned alternative energy advocate lauded Rep. Aderholt for his efforts to make domestic natural gas a more accessible alternative to imported oil as a co-sponsor of HR 1835, the NAT GAS Act."As a supporter of the NAT GAS Act, Congressman Aderholt is a true energy independence crusader, proving his commitment to enabling his constituents in Alabama to choose a legitimately American fuel at the pump,” said Pickens. “Natural gas is the only available domestic resource that can replace foreign oil as a transportation fuel. It’s cleaner, it’s cheaper, it’s abundant, and it’s ours.”Last month, the Potential Gas Committee released a study estimating that natural gas reserves have surged by 35 percent. The New Alternative Transportation to Give Americans Solutions Act, or NAT GAS Act, would quickly reduce the nation’s dependence on foreign energy while simultaneously reducing transportation fuel costs, greenhouse gas emissions from vehicles, and urban pollution where dense vehicular fleets are prevalent.America now relies on foreign nations — many of them unfriendly to the U.S. — for nearly 70 percent of its oil needs, a figure Pickens calls the greatest threat to America’s economic and national security. The Pickens Plan was launched to address what Pickens has called “the greatest transfer of wealth in human history,” the approximately $475 billion the U.S. paid for foreign oil in 2008.####NOTE: A picture from Wednesday, July 8th of Rep. Aderholt, T.Boone Pickens and other Congressmen who support the NAT GAS Act is below.
07.02.2009	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876 CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT ELECTED VICE CHAIR OF INTERNATIONAL HUMAN RIGHTS COMMITTEE WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) was elected Vice Chair of the General Committee on Democracy, Human Rights and Humanitarian Questions today while attending the 18th Annual Session of the “Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe” (OSCE) parliamentary assembly gathering in Vilnius, Lithuania. Rep. Aderholt is in Lithuania as part of a Congressional delegation trip with Helsinki Commission Senators and Representatives from June 26th to July 3rd. In addition to visiting Lithuania, the delegation is meeting with the Presidents of Bosnia-Herzegovina and Belarus.Among the resolutions being considered this week at the OSCE meeting in Vilnius is a resolution calling on the Iranian government to immediately release the British Embassy employees that have been held for the past several days.As vice chair of the committee, Congressman Aderholt will provide leadership in setting the agenda on democracy and human rights issues before the 56 country Parliamentary Assembly. The Assembly helps steer the policy direction of the OSCE in monitoring and encouraging all of the 56 participating states to comply with international commitments on security, democracy, economic and environmental issues and human rights. The vice chairmanship term will last for one year.“I am honored to be elected Vice Chair of this committee, and I look forward to representing U.S. interests and engagements,” said Congressman Aderholt. “History has shown us that during times of economic hardship, vulnerable minorities often pay the price. Therefore, now more than ever, it is imperative that the United States play an active role in promoting human rights, individual liberties and ethnic and religious freedom.”The Helsinki Commission is an independent agency of the U.S. Government charged with monitoring compliance with the Helsinki Accords and advancing comprehensive security through promotion of human rights, democracy, and economic, environmental and military cooperation in 56 countries. Rep. Aderholt has been a member of the Commission since 2001.Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD), Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, said, “I commend Congressman Aderholt for seeking a leadership position on the Human Rights Committee and am confident that Congressman Aderholt’s presence as Vice Chair will ensure the committee’s work remains relevant and responsive to the challenges our countries face in the years ahead.” ####
06.26.2009	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876ADERHOLT ANNOUNCES FEDERAL FUNDING FOR THE CITY OF FT. PAYNE, ALABAMARep. Aderholt fights off effort to strip fundsWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) announced that he was able to secure $150,000 in federal funding for the City of Ft. Payne, this after fighting off efforts to strip the funding from the Appropriations bill.The funding is for the rehabilitation of the historic Fort Payne Coal and Iron Building and is included in the Fiscal Year 2010 Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill that passed the House of Representatives today. A final version of the House and Senate bill is expected in July.The funding will allow Fort Payne to begin the phased rehabilitation of an important landmark. The Coal and Iron Building is located in the Fort Payne Boom Town Historical District and will house a cultural center, which will serve the entire county.Just before midnight on Thursday, Rep Aderholt fought for Ft. Payne and defended this project against an Amendment that sought to exclude the funding from the overall Interior Appropriations Bill. During a debate on the floor of the House of Representatives, Rep. Aderholt defended the funding as an important project that will preserve a historic American landmark. The Amendment failed by the vote of 114 to 317.“The Iron and Coal Building is a valuable asset in stimulating tourism and raising awareness of the cultural heritage of Northern Alabama and Southern Appalachia, as well as providing educational opportunities which augment other significant activities in the area,” said Congressman Aderholt. “The restoration and use of the Coal Building will be a significant benefit to northeast Alabama and I am greatly pleased that Fort Payne is receiving this funding.” The Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill provides funding for the Department of the Interior and the Environmental Protection Agency among other related agencies. Rep. Aderholt serves on the powerful House Appropriations Committee, as the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Legislative Branch, and a member of the Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee.####Click HERE to see the debate that took place on the floor of the House of Representatives.
06.25.2009	Rep. Robert Aderholt wrote the following column criticizing Cap & Trade legislation in Thursday’s edition of the Gadsden Times newspaper THE GADSDEN TIMESGUEST COMMENTARY: REP. ROBERT ADERHOLTCap and trade a hidden national energy taxThursday, June 25, 2009 As Congress considers the infamous “Cap and Trade” or “Energy Tax” legislation this month, it’s important for Alabamians and all Americans to know clearly what is at stake. At first glance, this legislation, titled “The American Clean Energy and Security Act”, sounds like a good idea. The bill’s supporters claim that it will encourage clean and efficient electric energy, but the truth is that “Cap and Trade” legislation would simply be a hidden national energy tax that will harm our economy, especially during a recession.Democrat Rep. John Dingell said it best in April when he admitted to his committee, “Nobody in this country realizes that cap and trade is a tax… and it’s a great big one.” Even the President admitted that this energy plan would cause energy prices to “necessarily skyrocket,” and that the cost would be passed on to consumers.On May 21st, the U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee approved this “Cap & Trade” bill, but the Speaker of the House has been hesitant to bring it to the floor for a vote because the American people have made their voices heard in opposition to a hidden energy tax.In reality, this legislation sets unrealistic government mandates that will harm many Americans. There are so many problems with this bill that I don’t even know where to start.Most people don’t realize that the Renewable Electricity Standards included in this bill would impose a requirement that power companies obtain a certain percentage of the electricity they sell from what the bill defines as "renewable" sources. Unfortunately, the Southeast is not blessed with what the bill does define as “renewable” energy in large quantities, like wind, solar, geothermal, and limited biomass.Southern states like Alabama will be forced to purchase expensive renewable fuel credits and the cost will inevitably have to be passed along to the consumer in the form of higher utility rates. For the millions of customers of the Alabama utility companies, the cost of the proposed Renewable Electricity Standards would be more than $200 million annually by 2020.Every time Americans flip on a light switch, they will pay more than they are paying right now. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimates that the U.S. cap-and-trade program will cost America $22 billion annually by 2020, and this is a very conservative estimate.Not to mention, the citizens of Alabama and our nation would be faced with large increases in energy prices due to the carbon cap and trade provisions in this bill.The Washington-based Heritage Foundation estimates that because of higher energy prices, the average per-family-of-four costs will rise by thousands per year, due to increased utility costs and indirect expenses like increased grocery costs. Lower income families already struggling the most are those who will be hit the hardest by these hidden taxes.Trying to create a clean environment is important, but Alabamians do not deserve forced government mandates like “Cap & Trade”. Therefore I’ve co-sponsored “The American Energy Act”, a bill that would help reduce the price of energy by exploring new technologies and energy sources, including clean-coal technology, natural gas, untapped oil fields, nuclear energy, and hydroelectric power, while also encouraging greater conservation and efficiency.Most would agree that Washington should create comprehensive energy solutions that focus on lessening our dependence on foreign oil. However, “Cap & Trade” will set unrealistic government mandates that will only harm our economy even further, and that’s why this legislation is obviously not the answer.Congressman Robert Aderholt serves Alabama’s Fourth District in the House of Representatives.
06.18.2009	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876ADERHOLT APPLAUDS TODAY’S INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMSSION RULING IN FAVOR OF THE AMERICAN TIRE INDUSTRYWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) released the following statement in support of today’s ruling by the International Trade Commission (ITC) that a surge in tire imports from China threatens the U.S. tire industry. The International Trade Commissioners voted today in favor of the American tire industry by a vote of 4 to 2.“The ITC found the evidence of a surge and market disruption compelling. I am hopeful that this is an indication that the Commission will recommend a sufficient remedy to President Obama,” said Congressman Aderholt. “If the ITC makes such a recommendation, President Obama will have his first major opportunity to make good on a campaign pledge to enforce trade laws vigorously and level the playing field for American workers.”Congressman Aderholt continued, “U.S. workers, including many Alabamians, face the prospect of job losses if the current trade laws are not enforced. I am hopeful that this Administration and other trade representatives will look at the facts and propose a prompt solution.”As a result of today’s affirmative determination, the Commission will consider the issue of remedy, with an expected announcement on June 29, 2009. It will send its report, including its remedy proposal, to the President and the U.S. Trade Representative by July 9, 2009. The President will make the final decision concerning whether to provide import relief to the industry and the type and duration of any such relief.The United States International Trade Commission is an independent, non-partisan federal agency of the United States that provides trade expertise to both the legislative and executive branches.This ITC trade case began when the United Steelworkers (USW) submitted a petition to the ITC under Section 421 of the Trade Act of 1974. Section 421 was adopted in 2000 as a condition for China’s entry into the World Trade Organization. Under the 421 safeguard mechanism, as it is known, companies or workers injured by import surges from China can petition for temporary relief in the form of reduced imports. The USW petition explained how imports of passenger vehicle and light truck tires from China between 2004 and 2008 led to sharp declines in domestic production and over 5,000 job losses. Congressman Aderholt testified in favor of import relief at an ITC hearing on June 2nd, arguing that it is crucial to preserve the jobs of some 3,000 workers at plants in Alabama, including about 1200 jobs at the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company in Gadsden, AL. ###
06.02.2009	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT TESTIFIES AT U.S. INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION HEARING ON BEHALF OF ALABAMA TIRE INDUSTRYAderholt Supports Tire Manufacturing International Trade RestrictionsWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (Haleyville) presented testimony today before the U.S. International Trade Commission on behalf of the Alabama tire industry. The Commission heard arguments from Rep. Aderholt and nine other U.S. Senators & Congressmen about a major trade case that seeks to stem the flood of imported consumer tires from China. During the hearing, Rep. Aderholt expressed his support for China-specific safeguards being considered under a United Steelworkers Section 421 petition of the Trade Act of 1974. The United Steelworkers (USW) filed the petition on April 20th stating that the current trade agreement with China on passenger vehicle and light truck tires is not being followed by China.“The Congressional district I represent is home to the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company…,” said Rep. Aderholt during the hearing. “Over the past several years, this plant and the entire domestic tire industry have faced growing competition from imports of passenger and light truck tires from countries whose governments do not follow the same level of labor, environmental, and trade laws as is true for manufacturers in the United States.”Rep. Aderholt continued, “U.S. workers, including many Alabamians, face the prospect of job losses if the current trade laws are not enforced. I am hopeful that this Administration and other trade representatives will look at the facts and propose a prompt solution. I urge you to rule favorably on this petition and to adopt a remedy that will strengthen America’s tire manufacturing industry and ensure that U.S. workers continue to produce quality tires for generations to come.” According to the USW petition, more than 5,100 domestic workers have been eliminated at four tire plants closed in the U.S. since 2004. About 3,000 more jobs are slated to be lost by year’s end as three more plants close or stop production of passenger and light truck tires.The U.S. International Trade Commission will consider today’s testimonies before voting on its trade restriction recommendations on June 29th, and then deliver a trade report on China imports to President Obama by July 9th. The President’s decision on a remedy is planned for mid-September.The United States International Trade Commission is an independent, non-partisan, quasi-judicial, federal agency of the United States that provides trade expertise to both the legislative and executive branches. Further, the agency determines the impact of imports on U.S. industries and directs actions against certain unfair trade practices, such as dumping, patent, trademark, and copyright infringement.####
05.22.2009	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT CONGRATULATES SPUD CAMPBELL FOR HIS MARITIME MEDAL AWARD Cullman, Alabama Resident Is Honored In Washington DCWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) congratulates Cullman resident, Spurgeon “Spud” Campbell, on the day of his Transportation Department Maritime Service Medal presentation at the National Maritime Day ceremony in Washington DC. Spud Campbell received the medal today at the Smithsonian National Museum of American History from Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood in honor of his service and sacrifice as a United States Merchant Mariner in World War II on the SS Henry Bacon.“This country is free because of brave men and women like Spud Campbell who risked their lives for the very liberties we enjoy today,” said Congressman Aderholt. “World War II may be long over, but the appreciation for those who fought for us in that battle is still strong.” During World War II, Spud Campbell’s ship was tasked with carrying 7,500 tons of war cargo to Murmansk, Russia. During the trip back to America, it carried 19 Norwegian refugees who were being evacuated. On February 23, 1945, German aircraft attacked the SS Henry Bacon in the Barents Sea of the Arctic Ocean. Campbell survived the sinking of the SS Henry Bacon, but twenty-two crew members and seven members of the United States Navy Armed Guard lost their lives.Spud Campbell’s story is highlighted as a display in the “On the Water, Stories from Maritime America” permanent exhibit at the National Museum of American History. His story is also detailed in the book, “Waves Astern: A Memoir Of World War II And The Cold War”, in which Campbell recalls eight decades of Merchant Marine adventures. In the book, Campbell describes the February 23rd night and his efforts to send SOS signals in gale-force winds and their miraculous rescue.You can read more about Spud Campbell’s Smithsonian Museum exhibit at www.americanhistory.si.edu/onthewater###Photograph information:Picture #1: from left to right: wife Bea Campbell & Spud Campbell are pictured in front of the “One The Water, Stories from Maritime America” exhibit at the Smithsonian National Museum of American History on May 22, 2009.Picture #2: Spud Campbell with his Maritime MedalsPicture #3: Transportation Department Maritime Service Medals
05.13.2009	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT OBJECTS TO MISSLE DEFENSE AGENCY STOP WORK ORDERWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today sent a letter to Lieutenant General Patrick O’Reilly, Director of the Missile Defense Agency (MDA), protesting the recent stop work order issued by the Missile Defense Agency on the Kinetic Energy Interceptor (KEI) program. The KEI missile defense program has the potential to deploy kinetic energy-based, mobile, ground and sea-launched missiles that could intercept and destroy enemy ballistic missiles during their boost, ascent and midcourse phases of flight. Congressman Aderholt has asked the Missile Defense Agency to rescind the KEI stop-work order and to use the remaining FY09 funds to complete the booster flight test. Congressman Aderholt is a member of the Missile Defense Caucus.The full text of the letter is below: Lieutenant General Patrick J. O’ReillyMissile Defense AgencyOffice of the Secretary of DefenseThe PentagonWashington, DC 20301Dear General O’Reilly, I am writing to ask you to rescind the stop-work order of May 11, for the Kinetic Energy Interceptor and to proceed with the September flight test. As you are aware, over $1 billion has been spent on this program, and I urge you to proceed with plans for the flight test, which is only a few months away. Invaluable information could be learned from this test, and I believe the American taxpayer deserves to have this information; I am very concerned about this abrupt cancellation. I look forward to additional information from you about plans to address boost-phase defense and ascent phase defense. At this time, however, I believe Congress does not have enough information on the overall costs of design, construction, deployment, and personnel support of alternate systems to justify discarding this program right before a flight test. Thank you for your consideration of this request, and I look forward to working with you on these crucial matters related to our national defense. Sincerely,Rep. Robert Aderholt (AL-04)###
05.12.2009	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT STATEMENT ON BOEING’S DECISION TO MOVE MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS DIVISION TO HUNTSVILLEWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today issued the following statement on Boeing’s decision to relocate their headquarters for its Missile Defense Systems (MDS) division to the company’s facilities in Huntsville from Arlington, Va.“As one of the largest aerospace companies in Alabama and one of the state’s largest employers, I am thrilled that Boeing has decided to move their Missile Defense System division to Huntsville. This move only confirms what the nation’s defense community has said for years -- that Huntsville is the center of the world’s cutting edge defense technology. North Alabama also has the reputation as an ideal location to grow business, both small and large, and I challenge technology companies to follow in Boeing’s footsteps by moving their operations to our region.”###
05.08.2009	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876 CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT STATEMENT ON THE NATIONAL DAY OF PRAYERWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) issued the following statement about the National Day of Prayer. "Because of the faith of many of our founding fathers, national days of prayer have a long-standing and significant history in American tradition. This nation is great because our founding fathers committed to prayer and the principles of their faith and it’s important for America to remember our heritage.”"At this tough time in our country’s history, it is vitally important that we recognize more fully the importance of prayer and a nationally recognized National Day of Prayer."Congressman Aderholt served as the Congressional sponsor and a member of the advisory committee for the National Day of Prayer Observance held at the U.S. Capitol on May 7th. The National Day of Prayer is an annual observance held on the first Thursday of May, inviting people of all faiths to pray for America. The National Day of Prayer was officially created in 1952 by a joint resolution of the United States Congress, and signed into law by President Harry S. Truman. Every president since 1952 has signed a National Day of Prayer proclamation. This year marked the 58th annual observance.###
05.06.2009	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT PROMOTES BRAIN TUMOR FOUNDATIONWASHINGTON, D.C. – Below are remarks from Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) during a press conference to promote the importance of early detection in combating brain tumors. The press conference took place in front of the Brain Tumor Foundation’s Bobby Murcer Mobile MRI Unit, parked in front of the U.S. Capitol. The Brain Tumor Foundation provided free MRI brain scans to Congressmen, Congressional staff and the general public on Monday, May 4th and Tuesday, May 5th from 8:30AM to 6:00PM.Congressman Robert Aderholt, who was instrumental in helping to bring the Mobile MRI Unit to Washington D.C., and Congressman Eliot Engel (NY-17) joined The Brain Tumor Foundation at the press conference to highlight the importance of early detection and to recognize Brain Tumor Awareness Month. For more information, visit www.roadtoearlydetection.org. “Unfortunately, I know the heartache associated with losing someone to cancer, as so many Americans have also experienced. Early detection is the key to treating most diseases and illnesses, and that’s why this Mobile MRI Unit has the potential of being such a powerful tool in fighting tumors and making America healthier. I applaud the work that the Brain Tumor Foundation is doing, especially in the area of early detection and I hope that more and more Americans learn about the valuable resources available to fight cancer.”“I would miss a great opportunity, here today, if I didn’t mention David Welch. I met David a couple of years ago and he was the one who talked to me about the importance of early tumor detection and the idea of this MRI truck. Last summer, he told me about his dream of bringing this MRI truck to Capitol Hill and I am glad that his dream has become a reality.""It has been a pleasure to work with the Brain Tumor Foundation and this great cause of fighting cancer through early detection. Early detection and complete removal is the best method of treatment but Health professionals cannot implement this treatment if you are not getting scanned.”NOTE: Pictures of the event are below: ####
04.15.2009	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876 CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT STATEMENT ON TAX DAY TEA PARTYWASHINGTON, D.C. –Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) issued the following statement in support of the many Tax Day Tea Parties occurring in Alabama today. Rep. Aderholt was not able to attend any of the parties in person, however a taped message from the Congressman was played at the Cullman, Guntersville & Ft. Payne Tea Parties in support of their rally.“Today’s Tea Parties are a powerful message to Washington in protest to the spend and tax binge that the federal government has been on over the last several months. The last thing struggling families need is Washington taking even more money out of their pockets.""I voted against the bailout and the stimulus and Democrat’s budget because I believe that massive spending and taxing will not lead to a growing economy. The path to our economic recovery starts with fiscal responsibility and lower taxes, and I support that message at today’s Tea Parties."####
04.02.2009	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876 CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT STATEMENT ON HIS VOTE AGAINST THE DEMOCRAT’S MASSIVE FY2010 BUDGETWASHINGTON, D.C. –Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) issued the following statement after voting against the Democrat’s FY2010 Budget.“I voted against the Democrat’s budget because I believe that it simply spends too much, taxes too much and borrows too much at a time when our nation needs economic relief. This enormous budget is a massive expansion of the federal government and the biggest-spending spree the country has ever seen." "Alabama families and small businesses are tightening their budgets and cutting expenses during this recession. I believe that the federal government has to do the same when it comes to the way it spends the money of hard-working taxpayers.” ####
03.26.2009	U.S. CHAMBER OF COMMERCE PRESS RELEASE: FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE—March 26, 2009 Contact: J.P. Fielder 202 463 5682 Representative Aderholt Presented with the U.S. Chamber’s Annual Spirit of Enterprise AwardAlabama Lawmaker Recognized for Support of Key Business Issues WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today the U.S. Chamber of Commerce honored Representative Robert B. Aderholt (R-AL-04) with the Spirit of Enterprise Award for his support of pro-growth legislation during the second session of the 110th Congress.“Last year in particular, Congress had to make some tough choices, and Representative Aderholt clearly demonstrated his commitment to the economy and keeping America competitive in an ever-changing global market,” said Thomas J. Donohue, president and CEO of the U.S. Chamber. “The Chamber is proud to present Representative Aderholt with the Spirit of Enterprise Award on behalf of businesses large and small.”Eligibility for the award is based on how members of Congress vote on key business issues, which the Chamber outlines in its yearly publication How They Voted. These designated “key votes” are recorded floor votes on issues established as priorities on which the Chamber communicates its position prior to the vote. Those members of Congress who support the Chamber’s position on at least 70% of those votes receive the Spirit of Enterprise Award.According to the scorecard, Representative Aderholt maintained an 82% rating with the Chamber this year and collectively holds an 84% ranking during his tenure in Congress.The Chamber key-voted 8 Senate and 18 House votes in 2008, including the Ledbetter Act to eliminate the statute of limitations for pay discrimination lawsuits, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act, a nuclear cooperation agreement with India, a bill ensuring the solvency of the Highway Trust Fund, and the College Opportunity & Affordability Act to lower tuition costs and streamline the financial aid process.To view a complete list of the 2008 Spirit of Enterprise recipients, please visit www.uschamber.com/soe.The U.S. Chamber is the world’s largest business federation representing more than 3 million businesses of every size, sector, and region. ####NOTE: Click below for a picture of Rep. Aderholt receiving the award from Chamber of Commerce President Thomas J. Donohue and a pdf copy of the Chamber of Commerce Press Release.
03.25.2009	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876 CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT STATEMENT ON THE DEMOCRAT’S MASSIVE FY2010 BUDGETWASHINGTON, D.C. – Budget Committee member and Appropriations Legislative Branch Subcommittee Ranking Member Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-AL) today issued the following statement on the Democrat’s FY2010 Budget, in light of today’s Budget Committee Mark-Up. “The budget that was addressed today in the House Budget Committee spends too much, taxes too much and borrows too much at a time when our nation desperately needs economic relief. This $3.6 trillion Budget is a massive expansion of the federal government and the biggest-spending spree the country has ever seen. Even the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released a report last Friday that this budget will cost taxpayers $2.3 trillion more than initially claimed by the White House. By any measure, this unprecedented spending binge will have significant consequences for taxpayers now and future generations for decades to come.”“Even many Democrats agree that an enormous Budget full of expensive entitlement programs and higher taxes on families and small businesses is not the right path for our country during a recession. Instead of continuing a policy of bail-outs and financial system nationalization, I call on the President and Congressional leadership to reach across the aisle to work together and consider Budget ideas from House Republicans that focus on fiscal responsibility and restraint.” ####
03.19.2009	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876 ADERHOLT CO-SPONSORS LEGISLATION TO PREVENT TAXES ON FARM GREENHOUSE GASWASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today announced that he has co-sponsored an Amendment that would prevent the regulation or taxation of Farming gas emissions.As of now, greenhouse gases and farm emissions are not subject to Environment Protection Agency regulation through the Clean Air Act, however the Greenhouse Gas Amendment co-sponsored by Rep. Aderholt would put into law that greenhouse gases not become subject to the Clean Air Act at any time in the future.“Agriculture is a vitally important component of Alabama’s economy, and this Greenhouse Gas Amendment would provide the necessary protection against unnecessary regulation for our farmers,” said Congressman Aderholt. “I have fought against unrealistic farming constraints for years and I will continue to do my best to represent the hard-working citizens who labor in the farming industry.”The Amendment co-sponsored by Rep. Aderholt would protect farmers against taxation of fertilizer emissions and the so-called “cow tax”.The Clean Air Act is the law that defines EPA's responsibilities for protecting and improving the nation's air quality and the stratospheric ozone layer. The last major change in the law, the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, was enacted by Congress in 1990. Since 1990, there have been several minor changes to this legislation.In November, the EPA announced that their “Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking” study on Farming emissions did not recommend the use of any particular Clean Air Act authority, regulate any emissions, nor commit to specific next steps to address Agricultural greenhouse gases. The Greenhouse Gas Amendment (HR 391) has been signed by 40 Congressmen, and it has been referred to the House Committee on Energy and Commerce for further consideration.###
03.10.2009	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876 CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT STATEMENT VOICING CONCERN WITH THE EMPLOYEE FREE CHOICE ACTWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today issued the following statement on the so-called Employee Free Choice Act. Also known as “card check” legislation, the bill introduced in Congress today would effectively eliminate secret ballots in workplace organizing elections, making workers vulnerable to public pressure and intimidation.“This so-called Employee Free Choice Act is legislation that would simply strip away individual liberties and has the potential to kill millions of much-needed jobs by eliminating secret ballots. The proposed “card check” process would require only a simple majority of worker signatures on cards without any privacy and I believe that this process is the wrong way to provide hard working Americans options in their workplace. ”“Americans are overwhelmingly against this bill, and even Obama supporter and economic advisor Warren Buffett criticized the Democrats’ Card Check bill yesterday on national television.”“If workers decide to unionize, then they should be protected from intimidation or coercion from company management. I urge my colleagues to instead support an alternative, “The Secret Ballot Protection Act”, which protects the rights of workers to have secret ballot elections when determining whether to form a union. It prevents unionization based solely on “card check” and protects American workers from threats and intimidation.”###
02.13.2009	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876 CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT VOTES IN OPPOSITION TO THE $787 BILLION STIMULUS PACKAGEWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today issued the following statement after voting against the revised stimulus package in the House of Representatives. “I sympathize with millions of Americans who have lost their jobs and are suffering financially. Our economy is experiencing a downturn that must be addressed as soon as possible, but today’s stimulus package is not the best way to do that.”“We all agree, Democrats and Republicans alike, that our economy is hurting. However, I simply disagree that the current stimulus bill that was presented on the floor today is the best solution. Like the first stimulus bill, I can not support legislation that clearly does not meet the intended objective of quickly stimulating the economy and giving working families relief.”“Also, it should be noted that this bill disproportionately benefits urban and large areas more than rural, working class states like Alabama and I believe that this is simply not equitable. Rather than create jobs or stimulate the economy, this massive spending bill is a laundry list of programs that focus on states with big city urban communities.”“An effective stimulus bill is one that focuses more on tax relief for American families and small businesses, without dramatically expanding our nation’s debt. This bill is a wish list of wasteful spending on many liberal priorities that will do little to immediately put Americans back to work and I am disappointed that our children will pay the high price for many years to come.” ### NOTE: The House of Representatives passed the final version of the $787 billion economic stimulus plan by a vote of 246-183.
02.03.2009	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT STATEMENT ON THE PASSING OF FORMER ALABAMA GOVERNOR GUY HUNTWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today issued the following statement on the death of former Alabama Governor Guy Hunt.“Caroline and I were deeply saddened to learn of the passing of Guy Hunt and our thoughts and prayers are with his family. I had the privilege of getting to know Governor Hunt as a young boy and looked up to him as a great leader for our state. Governor Hunt was not only a leader for the state but he was also a very respected husband, father, minister and friend to so many people across the state.”“In 1987 Mr. Hunt became Alabama's first Republican governor since Reconstruction during a time when many thought a Republican could not be elected to lead our state. His Governorship broke the one party rule in our state that had been in place for over 100 years and I believe that his election was helpful in the progress of our state’s political process.”###
01.28.2009	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT STATEMENT IN OPPOSITION TO THE STIMULUS PACKAGEWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today issued the following statement after his vote against Wednesday’s stimulus bill (the “American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009”). “I applaud President Obama for coming to met with us on Tuesday to talk about his proposed $819 billion stimulus package, however I can not support legislation that clearly does not meet the intended objective of stimulating the economy in order to provide relief for America’s hard working families.”“I would have supported a stimulus package that focused on providing tax relief for American families, revitalizing the nation's transportation infrastructure and reducing economic burdens on American small businesses. Wednesday’s stimulus bill simply will not accomplish these goals in an efficient manner.“Although the infamous “contraceptives” provision and the $200 million National Mall renovation project were dropped from this stimulus package, it still has funding for government programs and projects like $50 million for the National Endowment for the Arts, $2.1 billion for the Head Start program and $335 million for sexually transmitted disease prevention. We need immediate economic relief and I don’t understand how additional funding for programs like these will stimulate the economy in the short-term and make a positive financial impact on American families.”“The fact-of-the-matter is that today’s $819 billion bill will ultimately cost Americans well over $1 trillion, due to debt interest. This is simply not the best solution for our economic woes and I am concerned that our children and grandchildren will be settled with this debt for many years to come.”###
01.22.2009	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT SPEAKS AT TODAY’S “MARCH FOR LIFE” ON THE 36th ANNIVERSARY OF ROE vs. WADEWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today made the following statement moments after speaking to thousands of Americans who took part in the March For Life in Washington DC. Today marks the 36th anniversary of Roe v. Wade, the US Supreme Court decision that overturned all restrictions on abortion. The “March For Life” began in 1974 as a protest of that Roe v Wade court decision and the yearly “march” has grown from 20,000 passionate Pro-lifers in 1974 to more than about 200,000 today.“I stand with Americans across the country who support and march for life on this day, the Anniversary of Roe vs. Wade. The rights of the unborn continue to be of the utmost concern to me and the thousands who marched today because we believe that all human life is precious and a gift from almighty God. The Roe v. Wade decision of the U.S. Supreme Court, declaring abortion to be a constitutional "right," was without any solid foundation in the text of the constitution and thus was wrongly decided, and I look forward to the day when this decision can be corrected.”“The issue of abortion and the sanctity of life is something that I have felt strongly about during my time in Washington and I challenged my colleagues to look for ways to curb and stop abortions in the United States, while compassionately educating women who are considering abortion. I also pray that President Obama will lead our country into a direction that promotes and protects the sanctity of life at every level of government and in every corner of this great nation.” ###NOTE: Several pictures from today’s March For Life rally accompanies this Press Release.
01.22.2009	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876ADERHOLT ANNOUNCES $615,882 IN FEDERAL FUNDS FOR ALABAMA AEROSPACEWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today announced that $615,882 in federal funding has been awarded for aerospace work to be performed in Huntsville. The funds are part of a $4 million earmark from Congressman Aderholt in the FY2008 Consolidated Appropriations Act.The contract award is for the development of a robotic lunar lander demonstration vehicle with an integrated propulsion system, under the guidance of the Von Braun Center for Science & Innovation (VCSI).“The test bed in Huntsville is intended to demonstrate the incredible technical capabilities of the Huntsville region and the NASA Marshall Space Flight Center in the development of robotic systems,” said Congressman Aderholt. “I am pleased that the winning proposal is from Huntsville and I look forward to the successful execution of this project with the hope that it could result in additional testing activities at Redstone Arsenal.”Under this contract, Teledyne Brown Engineering and Orion Propulsion will work together on this project. The Teledyne Brown Engineering team will deliver the test lander by April 2009. The new lander demonstrator will be built at the Teledyne Brown facility on Sparkman Drive and the propulsion system will be developed at Orion Propulsion in their facility on Commerce Circle in Huntsville.The contractor team aims to demonstrate the ability of the lander demonstration article by hovering for up to ten seconds without a tether and up to 30 seconds connected to an air hose umbilical. The lander will be tested in the Lunar Lander Robotic Test Bed facility.The overseeing manager, the Von Braun Center for Science & Innovation, is leading the implementation of a Lunar Lander Robotic Test Bed in support of NASA’s Marshall Space Flight Center. The Test Bed is an innovative facility located on the Redstone Arsenal at NASA’s refurbished Materials Environmental Test Complex. ###
01.15.2009	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876 ADERHOLT STATEMENT IN SUPPORT OF ISRAEL AMID THE LATEST MIDEAST CRISIS WITH HAMASWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today made the following statement regarding the situation in Israel and Gaza. Since Hamas declared the end of a six-month ceasefire on December 20th, they have launched hundreds of rockets at Israeli population centers. Israel responded in self-defense with airstrikes and a ground assault aimed at degrading Hamas’ offensive capability.“I voted for the bi-partisan H.Res. 34 because I believe that it is important for America to recognize Israel’s right to defend itself against attacks from Gaza. The ideology within Hamas that seeks to destroy the Jewish state of Israel has resulted in rockets that are designed exclusively to maximize civilian deaths of the Israeli people and this is wrong.”“The state of Israel has the right to defend itself against any state or group that would threaten the safety of its people. I think most people would agree that the United States would defend itself against similar terrorist attacks and I support Israel in protecting its people. I call for a peaceful end to these latest acts of terrorism by Hamas.”###BACKGROUND: H.Res. 34 overwhelmingly passed in the House of Representatives on January 9th – The Resolution recognizes Israel’s right to defend itself against attacks from Gaza, reaffirming the United States’ strong support for Israel, and supporting the Israeli-Palestinian peace process (Sponsored by Reps. Pelosi / Boehner)
01.09.2009	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876 CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT SELECTED TO BE HOUSE APPROPRIATIONS SUBCOMMITTEE RANKING MEMBERWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) has been chosen to serve in the leadership position of “Ranking Member” for the House Appropriations Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch. Appropriations Ranking Members are the most senior Republican Members on each of their respective subcommittees, under full Committee Ranking Republican Member Rep. Jerry Lewis on the issues within their subcommittee’s jurisdiction.“I am extremely proud to have been chosen for this position of leadership within the House Appropriations Committee, and I am excited about this opportunity as I continue to work to represent and serve not only the fourth district and the state of Alabama, but the United States of America,” said Rep. Aderholt. “I am also honored that I have been entrusted to have this seat on this very important subcommittee which oversees the spending priorities for the US House and Senate and Library of Congress.”On Thursday, Rep. Jerry Lewis announced that the House Republican Steering Committee had approved Ranking Member assignments for Rep. Aderholt and 11 other Ranking Member nominees for the 111th Congress. The recommendations were approved by the full Republican Conference today.“Each of these Ranking Members has served this Committee and this Congress with distinction. Their combined over 200 years of Congressional experience will be invaluable as this Committee works to safeguard the taxpayers’ money and address the difficult and complicated fiscal challenges ahead,” Lewis said. “These Ranking Members are trusted and talented colleagues with excellent oversight and budgetary records. I have deep respect for their dedicated service to both this Committee and to the American people and look forward to working closely with them throughout the 111th Congress.”The powerful House Appropriations Committee is the committee of the U.S. House of Representatives that is in charge of setting the specific expenditures of money by the government of the United States. The Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch focuses on spending appropriations that fund the operations of the House of Representatives, the Library of Congress, the Congressional Budget Office, the Government Accountability Office, and other legislative branch extensions of the United States House of Representatives.####
12.08.2008	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT RETURNS FROM CONGRESSIONAL TRIP TO AFRICA AND AFGHANISTANTrip Includes Visit With Alabama TroopsWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) returned on Sunday evening from a congressional delegation trip to Africa and Southeast Asia. During the trip, Congressman Aderholt met with Alabama troops in Afghanistan and held diplomatic meetings with leaders of various African nations about the development of AFRICOM. The members traveling with Congressman Aderholt were Senator James Inhofe of Oklahoma and Congressmen Jeff Miller of Florida and Randy Neugebauer of Texas.The delegation traveled to Southeast Asia on Saturday for meals and meetings with American troops from Oklahoma, Alabama, Florida and Texas who are serving at Qatar's Al Udeid Air Base and Camp Eggers in Kabul, Afghanistan. While in Qatar, Rep. Aderholt also met with Alabama native Air Force Brig. Gen. Walter D. Givhan, who is originally from Dallas County.“It was a great honor to meet with members of our troops and to personally let them know that Americans appreciate their service, as well as all the men and women serving in our Armed Forces in war zones,” said Congressman Aderholt. “This country is safe because of the sacrifices of these brave Americans who risk their lives for the very liberties we enjoy everyday.”Rep. Aderholt spent Wednesday in meetings with Nigerian leaders and American diplomats, including U.S. Ambassador Robin Renee Sanders. Discussions focused on AFRICOM, as well as African social and healthcare issues. The United States Africa Command (AFRICOM) is a Unified Combatant Command of the United States Department of Defense that is responsible for U.S. military operations in African nations."AFRICOM is an organization in which we should all have great interest, not only because of the Command’s importance to Africa, but also because of its ongoing importance to our national security,” said Congressman Aderholt. “It was very enlightening to discuss AFRICOM with leaders of some of Africa’s most influential countries.”On Thursday, the delegation traveled to Rwanda and Ethiopia to meet with United States Ambassadors, AFRICOM officials and various Ministers of each country, including Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi and Rwanda Foreign Minister Charles Murigande. While in Ethiopia, the delegation also met with European Union officials on Friday. ###
12.05.2008	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876ADERHOLT WRITES LETTER TO EPA OPPOSING THE CONSIDERATION OF A LIVESTOCK TAXWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) sent a letter to the Environmental Protection Agency this week opposing the consideration of an emissions tax on farm livestock. Although Congressman Aderholt was told by EPA and Department of Agriculture sources that this proposal would not move forward at this time, he is taking proactive steps to help ensure that this type of tax is never considered in any new Administration. The letter was specifically sent to Administrator Stephen Johnson, the top executive appointed at the EPA, and Louise Wise, who is the EPA Principal Deputy Associate Administrator.Like most Alabamians, Congressman Aderholt strongly believes that any emissions tax on livestock is an unacceptable idea. Rep. Aderholt has diligently fought against unrealistic farming regulation throughout his time in Washington and he will monitor this situation with the same perseverance.####Text of the letter appears below:
12.04.2008	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT CONSTITUENT RECOGNIZED AT THE WHITE HOUSEWASHINGTON, D.C. – A constituent of Congressman Robert Aderholt was recognized for her holiday artwork at the White House on Wednesday at the public unveiling of the White House Christmas Tree Ornament decorations. Mona Ivey’s ornament was chosen in September to represent Alabama’s Fourth Congressional District and be a part of the decorations for the official White House Christmas Tree, and on Tuesday the ornament made its debut along with other ornaments representing the patriotic spirit of our nation’s states, districts, and territories.Mona Ivey’s Ornament will be on display on the Christmas Tree in the Blue Room of the White House. Ivey is a Cullman resident who is also the Art Instructor at West Point High School and St. Bernard High School in Cullman. Earlier this year, three of Ivey’s art students at St. Bernard Preparatory School were also honored with two first place finishes and one second place finish in the Congressional Art Competition.Every year, the White House solicits ornaments from every state in the country. For the past 8 years, First Lady Laura Bush has asked members of Congress to choose artists to decorate ornaments for the White House tree to showcase all 435 congressional districts. The 370 artists who submitted ornaments this year were invited to a reception at the White House on Tuesday to see their ornaments sparkling on a cluster of Christmas trees. The ornaments were presented to the press and the public on Wednesday.In addition, Mrs. Laura Bush announced the 2008 White House holiday theme on Wednesday: “A Red, White and Blue Christmas”. The White House encouraged all ornament artists to have the freedom to produce what they wanted within the theme of red, white and blue. This year, President and Mrs. Bush will welcome more than 60,000 visitors to the White House to tour the holiday decorations. ###
12.03.2008	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT TRAVELS TO AFRICA WITH CODELTrip Includes Visit With Alabama Troops WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) is currently travelling as part of a Congressional Delegation on a trip to Africa. During the trip, Rep. Aderholt will visit the newly launched United States Africa Command and he will meet with African leaders about the economic and social challenges that they face. The trip will also include a visit with Alabama troops and senior U.S. military commanders for briefings at an undisclosed location.The members traveling with Congressman Aderholt are Senator James Inhofe of Oklahoma, Jeff Miller of Florida and Randy Neugebauer of Texas.The United States Africa Command (USAFRICOM) is a Unified Combatant Command of the United States Department of Defense that is responsible for U.S. military operations in African nations.The US State Department contends that AFRICOM plays a supportive role as Africans continue to build democratic institutions and establish good governance across the continent. Since its launch in early 2007, AFRICOM’S foremost mission has been to help Africans achieve their own security, and to support African leadership efforts.“AFRICOM is an organization in which I have great interest, not only because of the Command’s importance to Africa, but also because of its ongoing importance to our national security,” said Congressman Aderholt. The delegation will visit Nigeria, Rwanda, Uganda and Ethiopia, including meetings with Ugandan President Yoweri Musevini, Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi and First Lady Azeb Mesfin. Discussions will center on AFRICOM, as well as African social and healthcare issues. “The United States has devoted record-levels of support to AIDS education, treatment and prevention in Africa, and the US is the largest contributor to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria since 2001,” said Congressman Robert Aderholt. “I look forward to the opportunity to discuss the progress in the global fight against AIDS with leaders of the African countries we are visiting.”###
12.02.2008	CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT STATEMENT ON THE CONSIDERATION OF A FARM LIVESTOCK TAXWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today made the following statement on reports that the EPA may create an emissions tax on farm livestock. “Any farming regulation of greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act would harm many of our farmers, and is something I would certainly oppose. I have been assured that this proposal will not be a reality anytime in the near future. The EPA has informed me that this idea of a “livestock emissions tax” will not be proposed to Congress as reality, at this time. I will continue to monitor the situation in the event that there is an update and I will fight any livestock tax such as this one.”“Agriculture is the economic foundation for many Alabama communities and farming continues to be an important part of our everyday life. I have fought against harmful farming constraints for years, including cosponsoring a 2005 bill to lift EPA regulations on livestock waste, and I will continue to do my best in Washington to represent the hard-working citizens who labor in and support the farming industry.”#### December 2, 2008 EPA Statement on emission regulation:The public comment period for the advanced notice of proposed rulemaking for greenhouse gases ended on Nov. 28, 2008. The ANPR does not recommend the use of any particular Clean Air Act authority, regulate any emissions, nor commit to specific next steps to address greenhouse gases. The ANPR represents EPA's response to the Supreme Court case finding that greenhouse gases are air pollutants under the CAA. It provides a comprehensive, in-depth exploration of the opportunities and challenges that the application of CAA authorities would present. It examines the interconnections among CAA provisions and the implications of applying particular CAA authorities to reduce greenhouse gases. EPA is currently reviewing the public comments and does not yet have a timeframe for next steps.--Josh Lewis, USEPA/Office of Congressional and Intergovernmental Relations
11.25.2008	Rep. Aderholt Op-Ed: We Have Much For Which To Be Thankful, Even In Days Like These This Thanksgiving, I can’t help but be thankful for so many things about our great country. You may be asking, “Isn’t our country facing its worst economic recession in decades? How can you be so thankful?”Well, the answer may be “yes” to this question, but I can’t help but remain positive on this Thanksgiving because of how blessed America really is.There is no question that we are all being impacted by the state of our economy, but I remain pleased that the state of Alabama has not been as negatively impacted in comparison to the rest of the country.Earlier this fall, an FDIC manager told a group of realtors and bankers during a Coastal Economy Outlook conference in Mobile that Alabama's financial and real-estate markets were doing better than most of the country, even adding 3,300 jobs.No doubt we have problems in our state on the economic front, as all states do. However, when I talk to my fellow Representatives from other states, I am reminded that we do have much to be thankful for.My heart goes out to employees of the “Big 3” U.S. automakers and the entire automobile industry because of the uncertainty we hear about in the news. General Motors, Ford and Chrysler may be in a tough situation but I’m confident that the United States of America can rebound from this economic downturn with the same ingenuity, work ethic and innovation that jumpstarted the technology burst of the 1980’s and 90’s.I was pleased with the response from Congress by not promising anything to the “The Big 3” executives who flew in to Washington to ask for a bailout last week. I fear that without real changes at these companies, we would be delaying the inevitable. These automakers must come to Congress with a specific plan on how they will do things differently if they expect any help from Congress.In relation to possible legislation that would provide aid to U.S. automakers, I hope that we take our time and consider all possible alternatives to protect hard-working taxpayers’ money, while not just providing a multi-billion dollar band-aid to a problem that more money simply cannot fix.I voted in opposition to the first financial industry bailout in October because it became increasingly clear to me that there were other ways to address the instability in the markets, not to mention that the American people thought it outrageous for Congress to support a bailout at the taxpayers’ expense.Many of us were disappointed at the result of that vote because of a foundational governing belief of limited government, but I remain positive that Alabamians still have many reasons to be thankful for as our economy experiences some growth and stability amid national downturn.As E.P. Powell once said, “Thanksgiving Day is a jewel, to set in the hearts of honest men; but be careful that you do not take the day, and leave out the gratitude.”In the midst of all the negative that surrounds us, let us take a moment to consider our many blessings. Happy Thanksgiving! ### For release on November 26th, 2008. For more information, please contact Darrell “DJ” Jordan at (202) 226-7602.
11.20.2008	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4587ADERHOLT STATEMENT ON TVA’s DECISION TO NOT FUND AQUATIC TREATMENT AT GUNTERSVILLE LAKEWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today made the following statement on TVA’s aquatic plant management and their decision to not fund treatment of private-residential areas of Guntersville Lake. “This decision by the Tennessee Valley Authority is an issue that I have been closely following. Since first being elected I have tried to communicate to TVA the importance of controlling the aquatic growth on Lake Guntersville. TVA recently announced that they will no longer fund treatment of aquatic plants for these areas on the Lake because of financial constraints. We will be doing what we can to communicate to TVA the importance of providing dependable service, exceptional community relations and environmental stewardship, so that a cost effective solution can be found to this problem.”“I believe that TVA is in the best position to adequately treat the problems with the growth of aquatic plants in the Lake. The residents who live on and around Lake Guntersville deserve the best service from their utility companies and I will do everything that I can to make sure of this. I have written a letter to TVA President and Chief Executive Tom Kilgore asking him to reconsider TVA’s decision on this important service and I look forward to working with him to resolve this problem.”###
11.12.2008	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT WELCOMES SECRETARY OF THE ARMY TO REDSTONE ARSENALWASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today welcomed the Secretary of the United States Army, the honorable Pete Geren, to Redstone Arsenal for his first visit to the North Alabama Army base as Secretary. The Secretary’s visit to Redstone Arsenal was at the invitation of Congressman Aderholt for the purpose of briefings on base operations and the realignment process.Throughout the day, Mr. Geren and Congressman Aderholt took part in a working lunch with Arsenal Commanders, participated in a special coin presentation to Redstone Arsenal employees, and joined Arsenal leadership in Community Outreach. The Secretary also met with leadership of the Redstone's Army Aviation and Missile Command and took part in an aerial tour of the entire military base.“I’m tremendously honored that the Secretary accepted my invitation to visit Redstone Arsenal so that he could observe the base realignment process firsthand,” said Congressman Aderholt. “I am confident that the Secretary was pleased with the facilities and the professional workforce that make Redstone Arsenal a great United States military installation.“I believe that continuing funding for Redstone Arsenal and the next generation of missile defense, such as the Kinetic Energy Interceptor program, is absolutely crucial to our national defense and I remain committed to providing the necessary support to Secretary Geren so that he can provide the best defense service to our nation.”Congressman Aderholt, who will be Alabama's second longest serving House member when Rep. Everett and Rep. Cramer retire in January, has helped secure millions of dollars in funding for missile defense and Redstone Arsenal since being elected in 1996. The Redstone Arsenal Army Base sits on the Northern border of the District that Congressman Aderholt represents and hundreds of Aderholt’s constituents work and commute to the Arsenal everyday.Over the last decade, Rep. Aderholt has worked very closely with Senator Shelby and Senator Sessions on securing the needed funds for Military base infrastructure as a member of the Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies.###
10.30.2008	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876ADERHOLT ANNOUNCES CHRISTIAN HERITAGE CONTENT TO BE ADDED TO THE NEW CAPITOL VISITOR CENTERWASHINGTON – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) announces that the Committee on House Administration and the Senate Rules and Administration Committee have agreed to include references to our nation’s Christian heritage in the new Capitol Visitor Center, scheduled to open in December 2008.The addition comes in response to a letter that Congressman Aderholt and over 100 Members of Congress sent to the Architect of the Capitol expressing their concerns with inaccurate and incomplete historical religious content in the Capitol Visitor Center, including omission of the current national motto “In God We Trust”, factual inaccuracies regarding Capitol church services, and the exclusion of the reference to “religion, morality, and knowledge” in the Northwest Ordinance.“The Capitol Visitor Center tells the story about how our Nation was founded and I feel that it’s important that the Capitol’s nearly 3 million annual visitors see that America’s Christian history is an important part of our Nation’s story,” said Aderholt. “I am very pleased that the Committee on House Administration and Senate Rules Committee have acknowledged this important part of our nation’s history.”Rep. Aderholt welcomes dozens of visitors per month from North Alabama to the Capitol during the Fall and Winter seasons, and hundreds per month during the Spring and Summer seasons. Beginning in December, all visitors who participate in a Capitol tour will be escorted through the new Capitol Visitors Center.Among the additions recommended by Rep. Aderholt and the Congressional Prayer Caucus, the Committee on House Administration and the Senate Rules and Administration Committee have agreed to include the engraving of "In God We Trust" in stone in a prominent location within the Capitol Visitor Center, and the proper acknowledgement that it is our national motto.The Congressional Prayer Caucus was formed in 2005 for the purpose of encouraging prayer for America’s leaders and the legislation they face.###
10.23.2008	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876 ADERHOLT CO-SPONSORS BILL THAT CONDEMNS THE UN’s EFFORTS TO REMOVE IRELAND’S PRO-LIFE LAWSWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) has co-sponsored a bill that condemns the United Nations’ efforts to pressure Ireland and other countries into reversing policy to reduce abortions.This resolution (H.Res 1482) denounces the efforts of the Human Rights Committee of the United Nations and the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women for pressuring and coercing Ireland into reducing and eliminating its constitutionally established abortion restrictions.In the late 1990s, United Nations Human Rights Treaty System committees began pressuring Ireland and over 80 other UN Member States to change their laws restricting abortion. H. Res. 1482 would urge all countries with restrictions on the practice of abortion to remain steadfast in their time-honored tradition that recognizes that every human being, born or unborn, has an inherent right to life. “The rights of the unborn continue to be of the utmost concern to me,” said Congressman Aderholt. “I have co-sponsored this resolution because I strongly disagree with the efforts of the United Nations Human Rights Committee in pressuring Ireland and other countries to reduce their restrictions on abortion. All life is precious and should be protected.”During Rep. Aderholt’s 12 years in Congress, he has fought tirelessly for the rights of the unborn through his support of many pieces of legislation, including “The Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act of 2003”, “The Unborn Child Pain Awareness Act” and “The Child Interstate Abortion Notification Act” among others.This bill, which was introduced by Rep. Thaddeus G. McCotter (R-MI), is currently in the first step of the legislative process and has been referred to the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. ###
10.15.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEContact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876CONGRESSMAN ROBERT ADERHOLT WINS PRO-FAMILY, PRO-LIFE AWARDWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) has been recognized as a “True Blue” Member of Congress by FRC Action and Focus on the Family Action for his unwavering commitment to the family. The award honors Members of Congress who have exhibited extraordinary leadership and commitment to the defense of family, faith, and freedom, according to FRC Action’s scorecard covering House and Senate votes of the 110th Congress. Recipients of the award voted consistently for pro-life and pro-family issues. FRC Action and Focus on the Family Action based this award on votes that include pro-family legislation, such as defending restrictions on funding international abortion groups, protection of abstinence programs and HIV/AIDs prevention, and other conservative family votes.“The Members of the 110th Congress who received this award have been consistent, stalwart allies of American families,” said FRC Action President Tony Perkins. “These Members are to be commended for supporting public policy that values human life, protects our religious liberties, and upholds the institutions of marriage and the family.” Perkins continued, “I applaud these Members for defending pro-family and pro-life policies that have been under attack this past year. Values voters should be encouraged by these Members who have shown a commitment to protecting and strengthening the family.”FRC Action is the Legislative Action Arm of the Family Research Council. Focus on the Family Action is a cultural action organization that aims to provide a platform for informing, inspiring and rallying those who care deeply about the family to greater involvement in the moral, cultural and political issues that threaten our nation.###
10.08.2008	CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT ANNOUNCES 4TH CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT AGRICULTURE & INDUSTRY TOURWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today announced the dates and locations for the annual 4th Congressional District Agriculture and Industry Tour.Taking place on Thursday, October 16 and Friday, October 17, this ninth annual event will highlight businesses in DeKalb and Marshall Counties. Among the businesses and sites the Congressman will visit are: Ricky Cornutt Farms (Boaz); BAE Systems (Albertville); Rainsville Church Pew Company (Rainsville), and a preview of the new JSU Little River Canyon Center (DeKalb County).“The agriculture and technology industries are two of the most important industries in our community. Alabama has one of the finest agriculture industries in the world and keeping it that way depends on us taking the time to learn about issues affecting agriculture,” said Congressman Aderholt. “One of the best ways to do this is to make sure we have a good understanding of the very basic elements affecting farming.”From farming to technology to tourism, each of these locations is an outstanding example of the economic impact that is being made in the Fourth Congressional District and the State of Alabama. Each stop will include a brief walking tour and an overview of each location.Aderholt continued, “These companies are part of an industry that affects everyone in the Fourth District in some way,” said Congressman Aderholt. “It’s important that we all work together to support them and learn more about them.”The Agriculture and Industry Tour is open to the public, however space is limited. Anyone interested in attending should contact Jennifer Taylor in the Cullman District Office at (256) 734-6043. The registration fee for the two-day event, which includes transportation, dinner and lunch, is $90. There will be a walking tour of each site. Guests must pre-register by October 13th to attend. ###Media Registration Information: If a member of the media would like to attend, please contact Communication Director, DJ Jordan (darrell.jordan@mail.house.gov and 202-226-7602) 4TH CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT AGRICULTURE & INDUSTRY TOUR SCHEDULE:Thursday, October 1612:00–1:00pm Public & Media Registration at Guntersville State Lodge1:00pm Depart for Ricky Cornutt Farms1:30–3:00pm Tour Cornutt Farms3:00pm Depart for BAE Systems in Albertville3:30pm Tour BAE Systems5:00pm Depart for Guntersville State Lodge5:30-7:30pm Dinner at Guntersville State Lodge Friday, October 178:00am Depart for Rainsville Church Pew Company8:30-10:00am Coffee & Donuts at Rainsville Church Pew Company10:00am Depart for JSU Little River Canyon Center10:30am Tour JSU Little River Canyon CenterNoon Lunch catered at Little River Canyon1:30pm Depart for Guntersville State Lodge2:30pm Tour concludes###
10.07.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEContact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876 CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT WELCOMES WWII VETERANS FROM ALABAMA TO THE WWII MEMORIAL IN WASHINGTON WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today welcomed over 40 War World II veterans from Blount County to the World War II Memorial in Washington DC as part of the Honor Flight Birmingham program.Congressman Aderholt met the group as they arrived at the WWII memorial and individually thanked them for their sacrifice to the United States of America as they witnessed the memorial for the first time.Honor Flight is a national non-profit program created solely to honor America’s veterans for all their sacrifices by flying these American heroes to Washington DC to visit and reflect at the memorial.The veterans group made the one-day roundtrip flight to the nation's capital to see the memorial along with over 30 Guardians, which are individuals who travel with Honor Flight veterans to provide support and assistance.“What an honor it is to spend time with our Nation’s heroes, the men and women who have served in wars to preserve our freedom. This country is free because of the sacrifices of these brave men and women who have risked their lives for the very liberties we enjoy today,” said Congressman Aderholt. “World War II may be long over, but the appreciation for those who fought for us in that battle is still strong. The Honor Flight Birmingham program is a great organization that is doing a commendable service for Alabama’s veterans and their families.” Honor Flight originated in Ohio in May 2005 with six small planes flying 12 WW II veterans from Springfield to Washington, D.C. Honor Flight Birmingham, a hub affiliated with the national network, was founded by co-directors Pam Nichols, who works for a Birmingham Healthcare company, and Amy McDonald, a Jefferson County history teacher.The War World II memorial honors the 16 million veterans who served in the armed forces of the U.S. during World War II, the more than 400,000 who died, and the millions who supported the war effort from home. ###
10.06.2008	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 225-4876CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT HONORED BY SMALL BUSINESS ASSOCIATION, NFIBWASHINGTON, D.C. – The National Federation of Independent Business, the nation’s leading small business association has named Congressman Robert B. Aderholt (R-Haleyville) a Guardian of Small Business for his outstanding voting record on behalf of America’s small business owners in the 110th Congress.NFIB President and CEO Todd Stottlemyer praised Rep. Aderholt for “standing for small business.” Stottlemeyer personally presented the group’s coveted Guardian of Small Business Award to Congressman Aderholt in Washington DC.“Small business owners pay close attention to how their lawmakers vote on the issues affecting their businesses and employees and stand by those who stand for them. The record shows that Rep. Aderholt is a true champion of small business, having stood strong on the key small-business votes in the 110th Congress,” said Stottlemyer. “This award reflects our members’ appreciation for supporting the NFIB pro-growth agenda for small business.”NFIB’s voting record tallies 10 key small business votes in the U.S. House of Representatives taken during the 2007 and 2008 sessions. NFIB has presented Guardian awards to members of Congress who voted favorably on key small business issues deemed important by the organization during the 110th Congress. Voting issues included tax relief, card-check legislation, protection from lawsuits and regulatory reform.NFIB is one of the nation’s leading small business associations, with offices in Washington, D.C. and all 50 state capitals. Founded in 1943 as a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization, NFIB gives small and independent business owners a voice in shaping the public policy issues that affect their business. NFIB’s network of grassroots activists send their views directly to state and federal lawmakers through their member-only ballot, in an effort to support America’s free enterprise system. ###
10.03.2008	CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT VOTES AGAINST THE RESCUE PKG AFTER INTRODUCING AN ALTERNATIVE BILL TO THE BAILOUT Congressman Robert Aderholt made the following statement today regarding his opposition to the financial bailout legislation and a new alternative bill that he introduced this week, “The Economic Growth and Financial Stabilization Act of 2008” (HR 7253):“As I did on Monday, I voted in opposition to the bailout package because it became increasingly clear to me over the past week that there are other ways to address the instability in the markets. I also took into consideration that the American people did not support a bailout at the taxpayers’ expense. I am disappointed at the result of today’s vote because I believe the Government can play a role in a solution, but not to the tune of $700 Billion of taxpayer dollars.” “The President and the Senate gave Americans two options for the financial mess that we are in: do nothing or pass this bailout. I disagreed with both options because the bills did nothing to grow the economy through free market legislation.” “I felt so strongly about this important issue that I supported two alternatives. The first was a bill that I introduced, “The Economic Growth and Financial Stabilization Act of 2008” (HR 7253), which would have jumpstarted the economy by immediately suspending the capital gains tax rate for individuals and corporations. “The Economic Growth and Financial Stabilization Act of 2008” also would have encouraged more capital flow to American banks and businesses by using the private sector, as opposed to a large government takeover.”“The second alternative I supported was a bill that I cosponsored before the first bailout vote in the House, the “Free-Market Protection Act of 2008” (HR 7223), which was sponsored by Rep. Jeb Hensarling. This bill focused on government reform, corporate accountability and the use of private capital, as opposed to taxpayer capital.” “Even though the bailout bill passed Congress today, I still challenge President Bush and Secretary Henry Paulson to pursue private capital to help the financial system recover from its’ current problem."###
10.02.2008	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan(202) 226-7602CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT APPLAUDS THE EXPIRATION OF THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF ENERGY MORATORIUM WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today made the following statement on American Energy Independence Day (October 1, 2008), a day when the moratoria on oil and gas in most of the Outer Continental Shelf and oil shale on federal lands expired. “I, along with 155 Congressman and 39 Senators, signed a letter to Speaker Nancy Pelosi on behalf of the millions of Americans feeling pain at the gas pump and seeking to increase production of American energy. The letter requested that prohibitions on energy leasing on most of the Outer Continental Shelf and on oil shale leasing on federal lands be allowed to expire. I am thankful that Congressional leadership yielded to the request of the majority of Americans in allowing the moratorium to expire, so that domestic energy production will increase and gas prices will fall.” “While all of us are rightly focused on the financial market situation, we also should not lose sight of the fact that part of people’s economic problems today is due to high energy prices. Forcing the Congressional leadership to allow these moratoria to expire is a strong victory for American energy.” “In July, I introduced the “Enhancing Energy Independence Resolution” to express that America can become more energy independent using today's technology without massive taxpayer expenditures, and garnering energy from our OSC supplies is a vital part of my plan.”“More must be done to unlock America’s energy potential, including expediting lawsuits and streamlining the leasing and permitting processes. Congress must work to fast track the retrieval of our domestic resources so that we can quickly get it to the pipelines, because I believe that price reductions at the gas pump will help our economy by bringing relief to each American family’s pocketbook.” ###
09.30.2008	Rep. Robert Aderholt Op-Ed: Why I Voted Against The BailoutThe vote that I cast in opposition to the $700 Billion Bailout Plan is one of the most difficult votes I have cast since my time as representative of the 4th Congressional District of Alabama and definitely the most difficult vote during this 110th Congress.However, it became increasingly clear over the past few days that this proposed bailout plan did not have the support of the American people. It is true that changes to the overall plan had been made before the vote, but still the American people did not support this proposal.The Administration's proposal amounted to the largest corporate bailout in American history and it is one that I was not comfortable supporting. There are no easy answers to the current disarray in our economy but there are alternatives to massive government spending that we need to explore.Now that this bailout legislation has failed, Congress must keep working to address this problem in a way that is acceptable to the American people. We can’t proceed with the same bill. Congress must put together a proposal that will not only work but will restore the trust of the American people.The House of Representatives is the people’s House and the people’s House must have the confidence of the American people.Many Americans have been worried about the statements that have been made about this issue. I want to encourage the people of Alabama and elsewhere to not react too quickly on reports that our economy may be heading towards serious decline. It’s important for us to strategically and methodically think through these challenges by taking the appropriate time to craft a substantive solution.As a conservative, I have a serious problem when the government intervenes too much in our economy. Congress should act, but it should act in a way that protects the integrity of our free market and protect the American taxpayer from more debt and higher taxes. And when Congress acts, I believe that policymakers must act decisively, and most importantly, correctly.I have cosponsored a bill that provides responsible alternatives to the $700 Billion Economic Plan. The “Free-Market Protection Act of 2008” is a bill that intends to help Wall Street “workout” of this crisis, rather than force the taxpayers into a “bailout”.This bill uses voluntary private capital, not taxpayer capital, which will help the system recover properly. This alternative bill also focuses on reforming a failure in government institutions and corporate accountability.Congress must not embrace a cure that may do more harm than good to the financial market. In my opinion, Congress should go back to the drawing board to debate a plan that doesn’t bailout the financial industry, but helps the problems facing the financial market while protecting hard-working Americans. This is what the people of America want. This is what the great citizens of Alabama deserve. ### For more information on the “Free-Market Protection Act of 2008" please click below:
09.30.2008	As the House considered the Treasury financial rescue plan on September 29th, I co-sponsored alternative legislation that would provide relief in the financial markets while protecting free-market principles. The bill includes the original Repbulican alternative legislation as well as the provisions that were unveiled earlier in the week by me and several co-sponsors (the bill includes capital gains relief, GSE privatization, suspending mark-to-market regulations, etc.). Please read below to learn more about this alternative plan:--Rep. Robert B. Aderholt (AL-04) ECONOMIC RESCUE ALTERNATIVE PLANSeptember 29, 2008"Free-Market Protection Act of 2008" A Work-Out—Not a Bail-Out• Stabilizing Financial Markets: Require the Treasury Department to guarantee losses up to 100%, resulting from the failure of timely payment and interest from mortgage-backed securities (MBS) originated prior to the date of enactment. Such insurance would provide immediate value to the MBS and a foundation for which they could then be sold.• Risk-Based Premiums: Direct the Treasury Department to assess a premium on outstanding MBS to finance this insurance. Participation in the program would be mandatory for all holders of such MBS in order to guard against adverse selection where only the holders of troubled assets participate. A risk-based premium would be assessed on those with troubled MBS. The premium would expire when the Treasury Secretary determines the fund has sufficient resources to meet any projected losses.Private-Capital Off the Sidelines by Empowering Private Investors• Net Operating Losses: Allow companies to carry-back losses arising in tax years ending in 2007, 2008, or 2009 back 5 years, generating a tax refund and immediate capital. Despite the presence of willing buyers, many firms with MBS are not willing to sell at such a huge loss. Such a carry-back provides a cushion for any such loss, making firms more willing sellers.• Repatriation Infusion: Allow a repatriation window for profits earned by U.S. firms overseas. Such repatriation amounts would be taxed at 0% if invested in distressed debt (as defined by Treasury) for at least one year.• Bank Losses on GSE Stock: Allow banks to treat losses on shares of preferred stock in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as ordinary losses, not as capital losses.• Two-Year Suspension of the Capital Gains: Immediately suspend the capital gains rate from 15% for individuals and 35% for corporations. By encouraging corporations to sell unwanted assets, this provision would unleash funds and materials with which to create jobs and grow the economy. After the two-year suspension, capital gains rates would return to present levels but assets would be indexed permanently for any inflationary gains.Reforming a Failure in Government Institutions• Limit Federal Backing for High Risk Loans: Mandate that GSEs no longer securitize any unsound mortgage that is: (1) not fully documented to meet minimum requirements for work, assets, and income; (2) written to comply with any law or regulation that would otherwise violate a firm’s lending rules.• Schedule the GSEs for Privatization: Transition Fannie and Freddie over a reasonable time period to truly private companies without special government privileges and open them up to real market competition. This reform would 1) establish commonsense limits for their capital requirements and portfolio holdings relative their size, 2) focus their mission on affordable housing only, not profitmaking, 3) require them to pay an appropriate risk-based amount for the government guarantee they enjoy, 4) subject them to state and local taxes and accurate SEC filings like every other private for-profit corporation, and 5) ultimately provide for the phase out their GSE charters once their conservatorship has ended.• Suspend “Mark to Market” Accounting: Direct the SEC to suspend the mark-to-market regulatory rules until the agency can issue new guidelines that will allow firms to mark these assets to their true economic value. The current rules contribute to a downward spiral as firms have to evaluate their assets not on the basis of their long-term investment but rather on a short-term mania.• Stabilize the Dollar: Repeal the Humphrey-Hawkins Full Employment Act which diverts the Federal Reserve’s attention from long-term price stability to short-term economic growth. In an effort to fuel the economy, this additional mandate has encouraged the Fed to keep rates artificially low, fueling economic boom and busts, and now a strong up-tick in inflation and the decline of the dollar (as investors free dollars for hard assets). This reform would require the Fed to establish a numerical definition for price stability and maintain a policy that promotes it over the long-term.Oversight and Corporate Accountability• Executive Compensation Limits: Require the Treasury to write rules prohibiting excessive compensation or golden parachutes to executives of failed companies at the expense of taxpayers.• Strict Enforcement of Laws Designed to Protect Investors: Task the SEC with reviewing the annual audit reports of entities the federal government has brought under conservatorship or now owns, and determine if those annual audit reports from years 2005 to present accurately reflected the financial health of those businesses. CLICK BELOW FOR THE OFFICAL TEXT OF THE BILL:
09.29.2008	CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT STATEMENT ON THE FINANCIAL RESCUE BILL VOTEWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today made the following statement on his vote on the Financial Rescue Bill.“The vote that I cast today in opposition of the $700 Billion Bailout Plan is one of the most difficult votes I have decided since my time as representative of the 4th Congressional District of Alabama.”“The Administration's request amounts to the largest corporate bailout in American history and it is one that I am not comfortable with supporting. There are no easy answers to the current disarray in our economy but there are alternatives to massive government spending that we should explore.”“We were told that this bailout was a choice between the lesser of two evils. If that is the case, I believe that we have an obligation to safeguard taxpayers above all else.” “Congress must not hastily embrace a cure that may do more harm to our economy, especially when the American people overwhelmingly object the legislation.”“Now that this bail-out legislation has failed, Congress must stay in session to address this problem in a way that is acceptable to the American people. We can’t proceed with the same bill. Congress must put together a proposal that will not only work but will restore the trust of the American people.” ###
09.18.2008	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan (202) 226-7602CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT’S BILL TO HONOR GADSDEN RESIDENT PASSESTHE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESWASHINGTON, D.C. – The “Colonel Ola Lee Mize Veterans Clinic” bill, H.R. 5736, passed the House of Representatives by a voice vote last night. The bill honors Colonel Mize’s many years of service, including a Korean War Medal of Honor, by naming the Department of Veterans Affairs outpatient clinic in Gadsden, the “Colonel Ola Lee Mize Veterans Clinic.” The bill was introduced by Rep. Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) on April 9, 2008 and debated on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives on September 15, 2008. The bill will now be sent to the U.S. Senate for consideration.“The Medal of Honor is our nation’s highest military decoration that is not awarded lightly and not awarded often. Ola Mize is a great man that has served our country with bravery and class and I am very pleased that this bill has passed the House of Representatives,” said Congressman Aderholt. “Colonel Mize is an inspiration deserving of every accolade he receives, and it is very appropriate that the US House of Representative has recognized his service to our nation by voting to name this local facility after him.”Col. Ola Mize earned his medal of honor while serving as a Sergeant for the US Army with Company K of the 15th Infantry Regiment, 3rd Infantry Division. After the Korean War, Col. Mize joined the Special Forces and completed three tours of duty in Vietnam. He retired as a colonel in 1981.If passed by the Senate and signed into law by the President, any reference to this community based out-patient clinic in any law, regulation, map, document, record, or other paper of the United States shall be considered to be a reference to the Colonel Ola Lee Mize Veterans Clinic.###
09.12.2008	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan (202) 226-7602CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT STATEMENT ON ALABAMA’S GAS PRICE SPIKEWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today made the following statement on the sudden increase of gas prices in Alabama.“The Gulf Coast is home to about a fifth of the nation’s refinery capacity, and most of them have halted operations because of Hurricane Ike. Wholesale gas prices have increased this week in response to the refinery shutdowns, and gas prices have spiked significantly in Alabama since yesterday.”“Gas prices have been too high for far too long, and this gas spike does not help many Alabama families who are already struggling financially. This is a serious problem and I have fought for legislation which would help bring down the cost of gas prices by increasing our energy supply and improving our refining capacity.”“The fact that this gas price increase is the result of refinery shut-downs in the coast brings attention to the fact that our country needs to significantly increase the supply of domestic energy and build more refineries. A larger supply of energy and more refineries will make us less dependent on the small amount of drilling and refining locations we have, as well as on foreign oil. We have the ability to increase domestic oil production in many American locations other than in the Gulf, but some in Congress are not allowing this.” “In July, I introduced the “Enhancing Energy Independence Resolution” to express that America can become more energy independent using today's technology without massive taxpayer expenditures, and I would encourage the House Leadership to finally bring a vote on this, and other energy producing legislation, to the Floor of the US House of Representatives.”###
08.29.2008	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan (202) 226-7602CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT STATEMENT ON MCCAIN’S VP CHOICEWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today made the following statement on John McCain’s vice presidential candidate choice, Governor Sarah Palin.“I am excited about the choice of Alaska Governor Sarah Palin as John McCain’s running mate. Governor Palin’s style of leadership represents the hard working people of America and the conservative values of Alabama. Sarah Palin has proven her strong pro-life values and, as a long-time NRA member, has been a strong defender for 2nd Amendment rights for many years.”“As a strong proponent for energy exploration, I am also excited about the fact that Governor Palin has a history of fighting for the development of new energy resources to bring down the high cost of gasoline. Alaska has a significant amount of energy resources and she supports many measures that make America energy independent from foreign oil.”“Her experience in shaking up the status quo is exactly what is needed in Washington and I look forward to helping the McCain-Palin campaign win in November.”
08.27.2008	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan (202) 226-7602Congressman Aderholt Announces Three New Staff MembersWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) announces three new additions to his staff. Mark Busching, Mark Bieszka and Darrell “DJ” Jordan join the Washington DC office.“These new hires are a very determined and ambitious group of seasoned professionals,” said Congressman Aderholt. “They are also a great fit for our office because they reflect the hard work ethic of the residents of Alabama’s 4th Congressional District and I am excited to have them as part of my staff.”Mark Busching returns to the position of Chief of Staff after last serving in that role in 2004 for Congressman Aderholt. Prior to returning for a second tour of duty, Mark served as Managing Director of the Transportation Practice at the Carmen Group, Inc. Before that Mark served as Senior Policy Assistant to the U.S. Secretary of Transportation from 2004 to 2007. Before joining the Bush Administration, Mark was Chief of Staff to Representative Aderholt from 1997 until 2004. He started his career in Washington, D.C. on the legislative staff of Representative Rick Lazio (R-NY) in 1994. He began his career in the political arena working for former New York State Assemblyman John Cochrane, as well as for the Suffolk County Republican Party. Mark received his Law Degree from St. John's University and a BA degree in Political Science from Wheaton College in Illinois.Mark Bieszka joins the office as a Staff Assistant. Prior to serving in this role, Mark worked from May 2006 to August 2008 for “The Navigators”, a nonprofit faith-based student leadership organization. In 2004, Mark completed an internship with retired Army Colonel and Orthopedic Surgeon Dr. Nathan Fogt at his private medical practice in Defiance, Ohio. Mark graduated from Indiana University in 2006 with a BS in Biochemistry and he currently resides in Washington DC.Darrell “DJ” Jordan joins the staff as the Communication Director after working in broadcast media for several years. Prior to working for Congressman Aderholt, DJ was an Assignment Editor at Fox News’ Washington DC Bureau beginning in January 2007. Before that, he worked for CNN in various roles from 2003 to 2006. DJ received a BS in Broadcast Communications and a BS in Sport Management from Virginia’s Liberty University in January 2002.###
08.21.2008	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan (202) 226-7602ADERHOLT RECEIVES A PERFECT SCORE FROM “AMERICANS FOR PROSPERITY” ON THE ISSUE OF LOWERING GAS-PRICESWASHINGTON – Congressman Aderholt has been awarded a perfect score on the issue of lowering gas prices and foreign oil independence by the grassroots group, Americans for Prosperity (AFP). The “Freedom from Foreign Oil” scorecard ranks U.S. Representatives based on their support or opposition to policies that would lower gas and energy prices by increasing American supply and making domestic production less expensive.The “Freedom from Foreign Oil” scorecard ranks lawmakers based on a composite score of energy-related roll call votes and co-sponsorship of initiatives that would positively or negatively impact gas and energy prices.Rep. Aderholt has also proven his strong support for measures that would increase domestic energy by authoring a congressional resolution on this subject. The “Enhancing Energy Independence Resolution” (H.Con.Res. 401), expresses that America can become more energy independent using today's technology without massive taxpayer expenditures. “Advancing policies that limit U.S. energy production and supplies puts our national security in jeopardy and costs American families and businesses dearly,” said AFP President Tim Phillips. “Expanding American oil and natural gas production is essential to alleviating pain at the pump. Our Freedom from Foreign Oil scorecard will educate citizens on whether their Member of Congress has supported or opposed legislation that will reduce our costly and dangerous dependence on foreign oil.”Americans for Prosperity (AFP) is a nationwide organization of grassroots citizen leaders committed to advancing every individual’s right to economic freedom and opportunity. AFP believes reducing the size and scope of government is the best safeguard to ensuring individual productivity and prosperity for all Americans.###
08.06.2008	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan (202) 226-7602 CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT RETURNS TO WASHINGTONTO DEBATE HIGH GAS PRICES ON THE HOUSE FLOOR WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt today will speak on the House floor to highlight solutions to high gas prices, despite the fact that liberal Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) keeps the House in August recess. Congressman Aderholt flew back to Washington from his 4th Congressional District in Alabama this morning, as House Republicans are poised for day four of their historic nationwide protest of Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s decision to adjourn the House for the rest of the summer without a vote on legislation to increase American energy production and lower gas prices.August is usually a quiet month on Capitol Hill, and Democratic leaders had hoped this year would be no different, particularly after they sent Congress on a five-week recess without allowing an essential vote on more American-made energy to lower gas prices. House Republicans took to the floor last Friday to join hundreds of Americans in demanding that Speaker Nancy Pelosi bring Congress back to town for a vote on lower gas prices. Today, House Republicans will speak on the floor of the People’s House to keep the protest going – and to keep talking with the American people about the need to increase production of American energy to lower fuel costs. ###
08.01.2008	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan (202) 226-7602CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT CONTINUES FIGHT TO LOWER GAS PRICES WHILESPEAKER NANCY PELOSI SENDS CONGRESS HOME FOR 5 WEEKS WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt last night submitted a resolution aimed at addressing the cost of high-gasoline prices, despite the Democratic Majority’s decision to send Congress back to their districts without debating any legislation that would lower the price of gas. The resolution, which is called the “Enhancing Energy Independence Resolution” (H.Con.Res. 401), expresses that America can become more energy independent using today's technology without massive taxpayer expenditures. “Paying four dollars for a gallon of a gasoline is a symptom of an ailment brought on by our nation’s failure to break its dependence on foreign oil,” said Congressman Aderholt.“I believe that we should enact legislation that would increase the supply of domestic energy with American exploration for oil and promote more conservation and efficiency to make us less dependent on foreign oil,” said Congressman Aderholt. “We have the ability to be much more independent from foreign oil but some in Congress are not allowing it. This resolution will educate the American people and hopefully generate a groundswell of support.”The House of Representatives voted this week to adjourn for a five-week August recess, despite an effort by Republicans and some Democrats to keep the chamber in session to address high gas prices. Thursday’s vote on the motion to adjourn was 213-212 in favor of leaving Washington, with every Republican, including Aderholt, voting against and 17 Democrats joining them. Congressman Aderholt was again in the minority on a 213-197 Friday vote to adjourn for the August recess without an energy debate.The resolution submitted by Congressman Aderholt includes exploration in ANWR, the Offshore Continental Shelf, shale oil, and the coal-to-liquid technology and refining. The resolution also states that our shale oil reserves make the United States the country with the world’s largest oil reserves, and that production of the oil contained in America’s recoverable shale oil deposits would add about $140 trillion to our Nation’s economy.###
07.28.2008	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan (202) 226-7602CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT PROMOTES NORTH ALABAMA AS AN IDEAL LOCATION FOR NEW YORK CITY BUSINESSES TO LOCATEWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) today joined other leaders and economic developers from Alabama in showcasing North Alabama as an ideal location for business at an event sponsored by the North Alabama Industrial Development Association (NAIDA).NAIDA organizes the annual luncheon to inform New York-based industry executives, site selection consultants and media professionals of the benefits of placing their industrial property or office space in North Alabama.Congressman Robert Aderholt’s speech and presence at the meeting, as well as his position on the powerful House Appropriations Committee, proves that he is committed to the economic development in the region.“The North Alabama Industrial Development Association does a great job of promoting North Alabama to industry leaders and company CEO’s all over the country, and it’s my pleasure to join them in this effort,” said Congressman Aderholt. “Alabama’s Fourth Congressional District provides everything that an urban or rural company would need to prosper and be an effective business.”The North Alabama Industrial Development Association is an economic development organization that assists companies and site location consultants in finding available sites and buildings in North Alabama. The organization represents Colbert, Cullman, DeKalb, Franklin, Jackson, Lauderdale, Lawrence, Limestone, Madison, Marshall, Morgan and Winston Counties.###
07.16.2008	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan (202) 226-7602CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT PRESENTS THE “PRE-K CHAMPION AWARD” TO TWO ALABAMA EDUCATION ORGANIZATIONSWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt today presented the Alabama Pre-K Champion award to the Alabama School Readiness Alliance, represented by Linda Tilly and Brittany Winfree, and to the Alabama Office of School Readiness, represented by Marquita Davis and Trellis Smith for outstanding leadership on pre-kindergarten policies and the success achieved through their effective campaign for quality early education.Pre-K Now is a Washington D.C.-based public education and advocacy organization and today’s award presentation took place at the US Capitol. As a result of the Alabama organizations’ tireless efforts to mobilize a broad coalition of state leaders and educate policymakers about pre-k, both the governor and state legislature approved substantial increases for Alabama pre-k this year. This increase will allow the pre-k program to add more than 1,100 students across the state, expanding from 2,250 students to 3,384.“Thanks to folks like Linda and Marquita, Brittany and Trellis, Alabama has a reputation for high-quality pre-k programs and our children have a brighter future,” said Congressman Aderholt. “Because of their work, and the work of their colleagues in the Alabama School Readiness Alliance and the Alabama Office of School Readiness, children in our state are getting the strong start to success that all children deserve.”As part of their strategic effort, Alabama School Readiness Alliance has wisely worked to build grassroots support for pre-k and broaden their statewide membership reaching out to key groups including the Alabama Faith Council, the Rotary Club of Birmingham and the Alabama chapters of the AARP, PTA, American Academy of Pediatrics and United Way to effectively engage them in the pre-k effort.###
07.14.2008	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan (202) 226-7602CONGRESSMAN ADERHOLT APPLAUDS THE PRESIDENT’S DECISION FOR THE EXPLORATION OF AMERICAN ENERGY SOURCES OFF-SHOREWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today offered the following statement regarding the decision by President Bush to lift the decades-long executive ban on off-shore drilling: “President Bush has done the right thing by lifting the executive order banning off-shore exploration today. The President’s action proves that Republicans in Washington are listening to the American people’s cry for the pain they feel at the pump.”“Now that the President has taken this important first step, it is now up to Congress to lift restrictions on offshore exploration and provide realistic solutions to lower gas prices. Alabama families and small businesses are paying about $4 per gallon of gasoline, according to AAA, and it’s time for a solution for this problem of high gas prices! Our energy problems are all about supply and demand, and as prices at the pump continue to soar, we must take steps to increase the supply of American-made energy sources. Democrats are in the majority in Congress, and I challenge them to work with Republicans in voting for legislation that increases gasoline supply in our country by lifting the off-shore ban on exploration.”
07.01.2008	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan (202) 226-7602 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) on Monday met with Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf and Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gillani during a five-member congressional delegation to Pakistan, a trip designed to show support for the Pakistan government and it’s commitment to peace in the region.Among the topics discussed, both the congressional delegation and the top Pakistani officials focused on the challenges that face the South Asian country. The bipartisan group also addressed the topic of economic reform, stressing the need to improve the social and economic situations of people that affect the underlying causes that contribute to insecurity. However, security along the Afghan border and the war on terrorism was the main topic discussed.The delegation left Monday’s conversations after being assured that both President Musharraf and Prime Minister Gillani are committed to resolving the economic and security issues confronting Pakistan and the region. “The US supports the need for an independent court system within Pakistan, but this issue is up to the Pakistani government and people to resolve,” said Congressman Aderholt. “We understand a change in government takes time to produce results, but we see Pakistan is in the process of making those changes and most of all, it is encouraging to hear that these leaders are committed to the war on terrorism.”“Our delegation held candid discussions with President Musharraf and Prime Minister Gillani earlier today," the delegation said in a statement from Islamabad. “The government of Pakistan remains concerned over security and the need to directly confront this terrorist threat not only within Pakistan, but also along the border with Afghanistan."The delegation was pleased that the Pakistani officials confirmed their support for the values and ideals of OSCE (Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe), as all five members are involved with the organization’s efforts to improve military security, economic and environmental cooperation, and human rights practices.Rep. Aderholt’s delegation is led by Senator Benjamin Cardin (D-MD) and joined by Rep. Zach Wamp (R-TN), Rep. Mike McIntyre (D-NC) and Rep. Loretta Sanchez (D-CA). The five member delegation are representatives of the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe, also known as the Helsinki Commission. The Commission is an independent U.S. Government agency created to monitor and encourage compliance with the Helsinki Final Act, the 1975 act that improved peaceful cooperation between the US, the Soviet Union, and 35 countries of Europe. ###
06.26.2008	For Immediate release: June 26, 2008Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan (202) 226-7602WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today made the following statement on the Supreme Court overturning the D.C. gun ban. “Today’s ruling by the Supreme Court on D.C.’s gun ban is a great victory for Second Amendment rights around the country. This ruling reaffirms the obvious fact that our Founding Fathers intended for gun possession to be an individual right, not simply a right for “militias.” D.C.’s gun ban was the most restrictive in the country. It consisted of a total ban on hand guns, and a requirement that shotguns and rifles had to be kept in the home and disassembled, making them useless for even defending one’s home. I will continue to do what I can in Congress to defend our rights that are provided in the Constitution.”
06.25.2008	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan (202) 226-7602WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today announced that he successfully included report language expanding the Vietnam Import Monitoring Program to include China and to include socks in both. “This program may be the only shot our sock industry has to obtain relief from Chinese imports after safeguards expire at the end of this year,” said Congressman Aderholt. “The safeguards I obtained for the sock industry in 2005 have been very effective at keeping Chinese sock imports at a manageable level, but we must look to the future of the sock industry after those safeguards expire,” he continued. The Vietnam Import Monitoring Program was started by the Bush Administration in 2006 to win support in Congress for approving Permanent Normal Trade Relations with Vietnam. As originally established, the program monitors several varieties of textiles and apparel and contained a mechanism for the U.S. government to impose duties on surging imports. It will be up to the next Administration to continue the program. ###
06.24.2008	Contact: Darrell “DJ” Jordan (202) 226-7602 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today announced that he successfully increased funding by $5.7 million in the House Appropriations Committee for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) investigations of child exploitation, in the Fiscal Year 2009 Homeland Security Appropriations bill. The $5.7 million was added to the budget of ICE’s Cyber Crimes Center, which investigates the trans-border dimension of large-scale producers and distributors of images of child abuse, as well as individuals who travel in foreign commerce for the purpose of engaging in sex with minors. “It is very unfortunate that pedophiles are exploiting children, but it is a fact,” said Congressman Aderholt. “However, with this extra funding ICE should be able to capture more and more of these degenerates.” The extra $5.7 million was included in President Bush’s FY2009 Budget Request, but was not funded by the Democrat majority. The base funding for the ICE Cyber Crimes Center is $18.5 million. Operation Predator, run by the Cyber Crimes Center, targets child porn distributors and users, people who smuggle children and those who travel abroad to molest children. In less than two years, more than 5,700 people have been arrested in more than 100 countries, with crucial support from the Cyber Crimes Center. About 5,000 were apprehended in the United States; the others are being prosecuted in their own countries. The investigations are continuing. ###
05.21.2008	WASHINGTON - - U.S. Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) voted today to override the President’s veto of the 2008 Farm Bill. The reforms and funding provided in the bill will greatly benefit the agricultural interests in Alabama’s Fourth Congressional District and the State of Alabama. In addition, it will provide significant nutrition program improvements to help the growing number of Americans needing food assistance, including billions of new dollars for the food stamp program. “Agriculture is a vitally important component of Alabama’s economy, and the 2008 Farm Bill provides a necessary safety net to our farmers,” Aderholt said. “It helps rural development and will provide needed relief for many Alabamians facing rising food costs.”The Farm Bill extends and provides funding for conservation programs, including the Farm Protection Program and Wetlands Reserve Program. Other provisions in the bill provide for increased funding for working lands conservation and renewable energy. The legislation also includes $3.8 billion to supplement crop insurance losses. Aderholt stated, “The funds included in this bill for potential disasters, when added to insurance policies taken out by farmers, will provide vital assistance to Alabama farmers much more quickly than in the past.”
04.17.2008	Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) was recently given the 2008 “Spirit of Enterprise” award for his strong support for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s pro-business legislative agenda. The U.S. Chamber awarded 239 members of Congress with Spirit of Enterprise awards for their pro-growth votes in the first session of the 110th Congress.The award is based on Congressman Aderholt’s votes on key business issues. The award is given out by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “These business-related issues impact the overall economy, “ said Congressman Aderholt. “And the economy affects everyone in Alabama. These are important issues that affect all Americans, and I’m happy to do my part to advance these causes.”Congressman Aderholt agreed with the Chamber’s position on 85% of the key issues the Chamber followed in the 110th Congress. Key issues included continued economic expansion by supporting free trade agreements, opposing union card-check legislation, and voting against punitive energy taxes.
04.09.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today introduced HR 5736 naming the Department of Veterans Affairs community based outpatient clinic in Gadsden the “Colonel Ola Lee Mize Veterans Clinic.” Colonel Mize won the Medal of Honor while serving in the U.S. Army in Korea.“The Medal of Honor is our nation’s highest military decoration. It is not awarded lightly and it’s not awarded often,” said Congressman Aderholt. “Colonel Mize is an inspiration deserving of every accolade he receives. I felt it was only appropriate that we recognize his service to our nation by naming this local facility after him.”If passed by Congress, any reference to this community based out-patient clinic in any law, regulation, map, document, record, or other paper of the United States shall be considered to be a reference to the Colonel Ola Lee Mize Veterans Clinic.According to the citation accompanying his Medal of Honor: M/Sgt. Mize, a member of Company K, distinguished himself by conspicuous gallantry and outstanding courage above and beyond the call of duty in action against the enemy. Company K was committed to the defense of "Outpost Harry", a strategically valuable position, when the enemy launched a heavy attack. Learning that a comrade on a friendly listening post had been wounded he moved through the intense barrage, accompanied by a medical aid man, and rescued the wounded soldier. On returning to the main position he established an effective defense system and inflicted heavy casualties against attacks from determined enemy assault forces which had penetrated into trenches within the outpost area. During his fearless actions he was blown down by artillery and grenade blasts 3 times but each time he dauntlessly returned to his position, tenaciously fighting and successfully repelling hostile attacks. When enemy onslaughts ceased he took his few men and moved from bunker to bunker, firing through apertures and throwing grenades at the foe, neutralizing their positions. When an enemy soldier stepped out behind a comrade, prepared to fire, M/Sgt. Mize killed him, saving the life of his fellow soldier. After rejoining the platoon, moving from man to man, distributing ammunition, and shouting words of encouragement he observed a friendly machine gun position overrun. He immediately fought his way to the position, killing 10 of the enemy and dispersing the remainder. Fighting back to the command post, and finding several friendly wounded there, he took a position to protect them. Later, securing a radio, he directed friendly artillery fire upon the attacking enemy's routes of approach. At dawn he helped regroup for a counterattack which successfully drove the enemy from the outpost. M/Sgt. Mize's valorous conduct and unflinching courage reflect lasting glory upon himself and uphold the noble traditions of the military service.
03.21.2008	Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) signed the discharge petition for HR 4088 The Secure America with Verification and Enforcement Act (SAVE Act). A discharge petition requires the US House of Representative to immediately hold an up or down vote on a proposed law once 218 members have signed it. The discharge petition for the SAVE Act currently has 181 signatures.“It is past time that our government take the necessary action to stem illegal immigration,” Congressman Aderholt stated. “This legislation is a common sense approach to immigration reform and is a good first step.”The Save Act is a three part plan to reduce illegal immigration by improving border security, enhancing employer verification, and stepping up interior enforcement. It has been endorsed by groups as diverse as the National Federation of Independent Businesses, The International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, and the National Association of Police Organizations.Congressman Aderholt continued, “I hope that it is now clear to my colleagues that the flawed amnesty approach to immigration reform is not the way to go. Enforcing our existing laws is the first step, and this bill does that by adding 8,000 Border Patrol agents. I consistently hear from people in the 4th district that we need to control our borders, and I agree 100 percent. This bill is a step in the right direction and I will work to see it passed and those agents on the job. ”
03.20.2008	Recently, Representative Robert Aderholt’s Web site was recognized as one of this year’s top Congressional Web sites by the nonpartisan Congressional Management Foundation (CMF) by receiving the Silver Mouse Award. CMF’s review included all House and Senate Members, majority and minority committees and official leadership sites. This is the fourth time the CMF has awarded the best with Gold, Silver and Bronze Mouse Awards. Representative Aderholt’s Web site was recognized for particularly innovative and noteworthy “Congressional Record” section which gives users easy access to all the Congressman’s official remarks. “One of my goals with the Web site is to make it a valuable resource for my constituents,” said Aderholt. “It is important that they know where I stand on the issues and the Congressional Record section is an easy way to communicate my position.”
02.08.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt is pleased to announce the award of a contract for 3080 units of Container Roll-On / Off Pallet (CROP) valued at $28 million. CROP is an ammunition pallet produced for the US Army’s Tank and Automotive Command (TACOM). Summa will manufacture these units at the Cullman, Alabama facility and deliver through June of 2009. Congressman Aderholt continues to be instrumental in supporting this program and Summa’s growth efforts in Cullman. Summa anticipates an increase of thirty jobs as production ramps up. “Today’s announcement is good news for Cullman, and our military. Cullman has been instrumental in producing this vital link in the Army’s logistical chain, and I am proud to have supported this project over the years,” Congressman Aderholt remarked. “The continued growth of industry and jobs in Cullman is a strong endorsement of the leaders in the area and the quality of life found in our area.”
01.18.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Committee for the Implementation of Textile Agreements (CITA) today announced that it will implement a safeguard action against sock imports from Honduras. The vote today signals the start of sixty days of consultation with the Honduran government before the final tariff details are announced. “I am pleased that the administration has decided to take action to protect our domestic sock industry,” Congressman Aderholt stated. “It was a commitment from this administration that if the numbers warranted it then safeguards would be imposed. Commitments have to be kept. Today’s decision is the right one without a doubt.” The Committee for the Implementation of Textile Agreements (CITA) is the government agency responsible for safeguard implementation. CITA was established in 1972 and consists of representatives from the Departments of Commerce, State, Labor, and Treasury, and the U.S. Trade Representative's Office. “This move by the administration is welcome news for our domestic sock industry,” added Congressman Aderholt. “I have said all along that the facts warranted a positive safeguard position, I am glad that the administration agreed with me.” According to recently revised U.S. Census data on domestic sock production, production dropped by 19.6% in 2006. In the first quarter of 2007, domestic sock production dropped by another 13.5%. At the same time, import data from the Department of Commerce indicates that imports from Honduras have increased almost 50% in the year ending April 2007. At the same time, world imports have increased 14%. A Honduran sock safeguard has been one of Congressman Aderholt’s top priorities. So that domestic sock producers won’t leave for Central America. Aderholt concluded, “I have always made fighting to protect jobs in Alabama a top priority, and I will always work to make sure that the manufacturing industry is healthy, whether it be socks or any other product.”
12.21.2007	This week the House of Representatives concluded a long-term extension of the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) that was championed by Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) following the breakdown of bipartisan negotiations. Two recent editorials by Alabama newspapers recognized the importance of the program's extension and Congressman Aderholt's efforts to help make it happen.EDITORIALSNot a nice Christmas present In our opinion 12-21-2007 There are about 70,000 children enrolled in ALL Kids, the subsidized health-insurance program (our version of the State Children's Health Insurance Program) that's designed to cover children in families that earn too much to qualify for Medicaid but still can't afford private insurance. The state of Alabama can cover these children because it has money left over from previous years when we were not running at full capacity. Without this reserve, we would have to drop children from the program. With President Bush's veto of SCHIP, that could soon happen. The bill Bush rejected contained a lot of things he did not like. That included the coverage expansion and opening the program to new categories of qualifiers. However, the bill also contained more money to meet the growing number of children who qualify under the present rules. In response, Bush offered a compromise that would add more money but, as far as Alabama is concerned, it's not enough. Even with what Bush is willing to accept, some children currently enrolled will be dropped from the program. Now is the time for the Republicans in the Alabama delegation to step up and demand that the president they've supported on this issue come forward with a better plan — one similar to what Rep. Robert Aderholt, R-Haleyville, is proposing. But the Aderholt compromise, which would allocate more money than Bush wants to spend, has not generated much enthusiasm in the White House. We hope this will change. If the president cannot be brought around by reason and the Democrats push through a short-term extension that maintains the status quo, some Alabama children will lose their insurance.And that's not a nice Christmas present.December 17, 2007 Editorial Kids' care debate vital for state It's hard to imagine a better public investment than health insurance for children. Does anything make more sense on more levels? When children get proper medical care, regular checkups, prompt attention to illnesses and other basics of health care that insurance makes possible, they lead healthier lives and do better in school. Their long-term prospects for education and productivity are enhanced. In short, it's money well spent. That's why the debate over funding for the program known nationally as SCHIP and in Alabama as ALL Kids is not some ordinary bit of Washington political wrangling. It's enormously important for Alabama. SCHIP -- State Children's Health Insurance Program -- was created by Congress a decade ago to provide health care coverage for children caught in an all too common situation. Although their incomes are modest, their families earn too much too qualify for Medicaid. Their parents often work in jobs that don't offer health insurance as a benefit. Private health insurance is beyond their means. Alabama's program, ALL Kids, covers almost 70,000 children of families earning up to 200 percent of the federal poverty level. If that sounds generous to you, consider this: For a family of four, that represents an income of $41,300 per year. In these times, that's not a lot. Even at the current enrollment in Alabama, the annual funding is not covering the cost. Alabama has avoided a shortfall only because it had surplus funds from earlier years before the program reached its present size. When that money is gone, which state officials estimate will happen by the end of next year, Alabama could be in a very difficult position. "We're really in a sticky situation," ALL Kids director Cathy Caldwell said in an interview with The Associated Press. "It is very possible that we would need to start reducing enrollment beginning in the next few months to get to a level that we can support." A scaled-back ALL Kids program would have grim implications for perhaps thousands of Alabama children, and for the state's future as well. The congressional debate is not just about budget numbers; it's also about real people. At issue is the expansion of the federal funding that covers most of the costs of the program. Congress has twice passed measures increasing annual funding by $7 billion for five years. President Bush has vetoed both measures, arguing that they are too expensive. He has said he is willing to support a $1 billion annual increase. In the short term, the House this week is expected to consider extending funding at current levels into next year. That, understandably, makes state officials nervous. The House would be well advised to consider a compromise offered by Alabama Rep. Robert Aderholt. He proposes a $2.6 billion increase over the next 18 months. That's enough money to allow the programs to continue successfully in the states and enough time to allow Congress and the president to come to an agreement on longer-range funding. This is not just about lines on a balance sheet. It's about the healthy lives of children.
12.20.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today celebrated the passage of a long-term extension of the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). The bipartisan measure passed the House today and now moves on to President Bush for signature. “For months I’ve been calling on leadership in Congress to remove the politics from SCHIP negotiations and offer a clean extension of this vital program for poor children. Instead, political calculations and partisan maneuvering were chosen. Today, Congress got it right. This long term extension provides healthcare certainty to millions of deserving children nationwide,” Congressman Aderholt stated. On December 12, 2007, Congressman Aderholt wrote a bipartisan letter to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D – CA 8) that was signed by over 80 of his colleagues requesting a long-term extension of the current SCHIP. At the time, she was considering another short-term extension that would have expired just weeks before the 2008 elections. This manufactured political crisis was unacceptable to many Members of the House. Congressman Aderholt made the following statement on the House floor this morning in support of today’s decision. “I’d like to thank all the Members who have worked on this bill, and there have been many. While I’m disappointed that it’s taken us so long to come up with such a commonsense solution to the problem, in the end we have arrived at the correct decision. When SCHIP was created in 1997, it was a bipartisan bill enacted by a Republican Congress and signed into law by a Democrat President. I think it would be fair to say that this year’s process has been anything but bipartisan. The political rancor of this debate has surpassed anything I’ve previously experienced during my time in Congress. But, its time to move forward and remember what’s important in this process: providing necessary healthcare to America’s poor children. In my home state of Alabama SCHIP has been a tremendous success and has helped a new generation of children lead happier, healthier lives. I’m pleased that Congress has decided to extend this vital program into 2009 and provide a level of certainty to state health directors that didn’t exist under the previous continuing resolutions.”
12.13.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today introduced legislation in the House of Representatives that would require an active tuberculosis (TB) screening for any individual seeking employment with meat processing facilities or poultry processing facilities. Anyone determined to have active TB would be prohibited from employment in these facilities under this bill. “As the recent situations in North Alabama clearly demonstrated TB is a concern in our local poultry processing facilities. While there isn’t a threat to our food supply since TB is transmitted through the air, it is an infectious disease that can be easily transmitted to others,” said Congressman Aderholt. “Everyone deserves a safe work environment and this bill takes steps to help ensure that North Alabama’s meat and poultry processing facilities are as safe as possible from TB.” The resolution offered by Congressman Aderholt amends the Poultry Products Inspection Act and the Federal Meat Inspection Act to require active tuberculosis screening of potential employees. It’s important to note that according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control, TB is spread through the air. People cannot get infected with TB bacteria through handshakes, sitting on toilet seats, or sharing dishes and utensils with someone who has TB. It can almost always be treated with medicine. Congressman Aderholt concluded, “Having active TB shouldn’t limit people from leading a normal life. TB is a treatable disease and once a person is no longer infectious they can do anything, including work in these meat and poultry processing facilities. But they must first prove that they are no longer infectious and a threat to any other employees.” The bill, H.R. 4543, has not yet been referred to a committee of jurisdiction but that is expected to happen shortly.
12.13.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Last night, Congressman Aderholt (R-Haleyville) and 49 of his congressional colleagues from both parties sent a letter to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D- CA 8) calling for a responsible extension of the long delayed State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). Instead, Speaker Pelosi called a vote to delay action on a potential SCHIP veto override and is expected to extend the program only until the time of the 2008 elections. “Democratic Leadership in the House of Representatives continues to act in a calculated manner placing their political priorities ahead of healthcare needs for poor children,” said Congressman Aderholt. “While I, along with so many of my colleagues, am frustrated with both parties and the way this issue has fallen into the political gutter, last night’s action takes the cake.” In a surprise vote called by Democrat Leadership, the House voted 211 to 180 to delay action on President Bush’s veto of the latest SCHIP bill until January 23, 2008, preceding President Bush’s State of the Union Address. The bill vetoed by President Bush would have provided coverage for many illegal immigrants along with families making up to $83,000, and also encouraged parents to move their children from private health care onto government funded plans. “I voted for SCHIP in 1997 because it promises a brighter, healthier future for poor children in Alabama and the children of America. I’ve never had reason to regret that vote because Alabama’s program is working and our children are the better for it. It was a good program then and it is a good program now,” Congressman Aderholt continued. “Today Alabama is suffering because of the political games that others want to play. I don’t believe you can characterize it any other way when votes on SCHIP are being scheduled to occur one month before national elections in 2008.” SCHIP has been extended only through December 14, 2007. Further action will be necessary and it has been reported that Speaker Pelosi is considering an extension of the program until September 30, 2008, just over a month before the November 2008 elections. “Last night, I sent a letter to Speaker Pelosi that included a bi-partisan group of 49 of my House colleagues calling for a longer extension of SCHIP. This debate has become so heated that we need to move it outside of the political silly season to a time when cooler, more reasonable heads can prevail. That’s the responsible thing to do,” said Congressman Aderholt. In the letter, Congressman Aderholt and his colleagues urge the Speaker for the longer extension as a shorter extension would “cause great difficulty to state health administrators seeking to add eligible children to the rolls in calendar year 2008.” Officials have told the Congressman that while Alabama does not currently face a funding shortfall, uncertainty in the program’s status could lead them to freeze new enrollments for currently eligible children in late winter or early spring 2008. To offset this potential problem, Congressman Aderholt has offered a resolution (H. Res. 748) on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives calling for immediate consideration of an SCHIP extension bill. H.R. 3584, the SCHIP Extension Act of 2007 by Congressman Joe Barton (R – TX 6) maintains current law and increases funding levels for 18 months. In Fiscal Year 2008 it provides for $6.5 billion in funding and $3.6 billion for the first 6 months of Fiscal Year 2009. These figures represent a $1.5 billion and $1.1 billion increase respectively. These funds are in addition to the states’ roll-over amounts. By guaranteeing current funding levels, and even increasing funding, the program remains secure while the political debate continues in Washington. Congressman Aderholt concluded, “Now is the time to act, not sit back and see which way the wind is blowing. Congress, and that includes both political parties, can’t continue to wait to see who this mess will stick to. It’s time for leadership and it’s time for a responsible solution. If we can’t do that now, let’s at least acknowledge it and extend this vital program to a time when we can.”
12.05.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) recently returned from a Congressional Delegation trip over the Thanksgiving recess that included a visit with Alabama troops currently serving in Afghanistan. “Meeting with our military commanders and the troops in Afghanistan was a highlight of the trip. It further reinforced my opinion on the importance of our mission in Afghanistan and the ongoing operations against Al-Qaeda in the region,” Congressman Aderholt stated. The trip also included stops in the African nations of Mauritania, Ghana, Burkina Faso, Burundi, and Ethiopia to discuss African issues as well as the U.S. military’s Africa Command (AFRICOM). Following the visit to Afghanistan, Congressman Aderholt and the other members of the delegation concluded their trip with visits to Poland and Czech Republic in Eastern Europe where they attended meetings on Missile Defense negotiations in Europe and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). Congressman Aderholt added, “Having had the opportunity to visit our troops where they are on the ground and seeing what they endure on a daily basis is enough to make your head spin. It’s absolutely unfathomable to me that Congress can’t get its act together and pass a clean funding bill that will help the men and women in the field do the job that we’ve asked them to do.” President Bush has requested supplemental war funding to continue ongoing military operations in Afghanistan and Iraq. To date, Democrat leadership in Congress has refused to pass war funding that doesn’t call for troop withdrawals or other restrictions on the President’s ability to deploy troops in his role as Commander-in-Chief. As a result of this non-action, the Pentagon has been forced to borrow money from other defense programs already funded. Such action the Pentagon has stated could lead to the furloughing of civilians in military jobs and the closing of facilities such as child care centers and counselor services for returning soldiers and their families. “While the troops I talked to would all like to return home to Alabama, they understand the mission in Afghanistan. The moral of the troops was positive and while there is much to do in the region, they feel we are making a difference. They believe in the mission and are committed to doing their duty. Congress should do theirs and support these brave men and women,” concluded Congressman Aderholt.
11.30.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) is currently travelling as part of a Congressional Delegation on a trip to Africa, Eastern Europe, and the U.S. Central Command Area of Responsibility (CENTCOM AOR) over the Thanksgiving recess. While visiting the CENTCOM AOR the Congressman is meeting with Alabama troops currently serving there. In Africa, the delegation will visit Mauritania, Ghana, Burkina Faso, Burundi, and Ethiopia. Discussions will center on African issues as well as the U.S. military’s Africa Command (AFRICOM). AFRICOM was created by President Bush on February 6, 2007 in acknowledgment of the emerging strategic importance of Africa, and recognizing that peace and stability on the continent impacts not only Africans, but the interests of the U.S. and international community as well. Congressman Aderholt stated, “With the ongoing military operations in the Middle East, the importance of our allies in Africa has only increased. In recognition of this, President Bush created AFRICOM. This trip was important to gain first hand knowledge of the challenges that exist in Africa and how Congress can help overcome them.” For security reasons, Congressman Aderholt is unable to disclose where the delegation will visit within the CENTCOM AOR, but he can say that during that stop the delegation will meet with troops and senior U.S. military commanders for briefings. CENTCOM currently oversees U.S. military operations in both Iraq and Afghanistan. The trip will conclude with visits to Poland and Czech Republic in Eastern Europe where they will attend meetings on Missile Defense negotiations in Europe and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). “Missile Defense is a program that I’m vitally interested in, not only because of the program’s importance to North Alabama, but also because of its ongoing importance to our national security,” concluded Congressman Aderholt. “There has been a great deal of concern reported on missile defense implementation in Europe. My hope is that by meeting with interested parties on this trip I will gain a better understanding of these concerns.”
11.16.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today offered the following update on the bipartisan, bicameral negotiations on the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). Congressman Aderholt has been actively engaged in negotiations since President Bush vetoed an expanded SCHIP reauthorization measure: “For the past three weeks I’ve actively been a part of negotiations between Republicans and Democrats, House and Senate Members, to try and find a SCHIP compromise. While I’m disappointed that I’m unable to announce that elusive compromise, I can say that the goal of providing health care coverage to poor children has not changed. In my mind, SCHIP remains a great example of a federal government program that is working in Alabama. By all accounts, and I agree, Alabama does a tremendous job of identifying and providing health care to needy children at or near the federal poverty limit. The problem is that our successes aren’t being duplicated across the country and I fear that this trend will only grow. SCHIP should be about ensuring that needy children are receiving the health care that the federal government has promised them. If, as has been the case in negotiations, Congress wants to provide health care to families making up to $80,000 or other adults, we should debate that issue. If Congress would like to give health care to illegal immigrants, that should be debated as well. But, these debates shouldn’t be part of the ongoing SCHIP discussion for a program that’s designed to benefit needy children. Unfortunately, it appears that we can’t talk about SCHIP without including coverage for families making $80,000 and illegal immigrants. That’s not what the program is designed to do. Politics continues to play entirely too large a role in this process. Therefore, last night I filed a discharge petition that will remove politics from the equation by bringing a SCHIP extension bill to the House Floor immediately. The SCHIP Extension Act of 2007 by Congressman Joe Barton maintains current law and increases SCHIP funding levels for 18 months. By extending the program, we take SCHIP off the table as a political football. We allow the next Presidential Administration to take action, whether they are Republican or Democrat doesn’t matter at this point, only that the program be reauthorized in a responsible manner. Our constituents expect nothing less from Congress. Like many Americans, I’m frustrated that partisan bickering and competing interests have derailed SCHIP reauthorization for so long. I remain committed to negotiating a solution that sets politics aside and ensures that our nation’s poorest children receive the health coverage they so desperately need.”
11.14.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today offered the following statement on the opening of the Future I-22’s link between Graysville and Jasper.“Corridor X and I-22 have long been a dream for the western part of Alabama’s 4th District. It holds great promise for the region and the state. With the opening of this section between Jasper and Graysville, we are seeing that dream become reality. While there is still work to be done to complete the entire Corridor X project all the way to I-65, today puts us one step closer to that day. I believe that a strong transportation system is critical to the economic growth of Alabama. For years, this project has been one of my greatest priorities. That we’re finally at this point is a real testament to the work that can happen when state and federal officials work together for the good of our area. While it’s been a long road, it’s one that will prove to be well worth the journey.”
11.09.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In 2005 while awaiting the birth of their first child Ryan, Andrea and Eric Cole of Kensington, Maryland (with roots in Lamar County) learned that he would be born with a rare birth defect called Dandy-Walker Syndrome and a condition called hydrocephalus. Today the family leads the fight against Dandy-Walker Syndrome and is the inspiration behind Congressman Robert Aderholt’s (R-Haleyville) effort against this terrible birth defect.“I had the opportunity to meet Ryan earlier this year and while talking with his parents we discussed how we could help this young man. However, when you talk to Andrea and Eric they’ll be quick to tell you that this is a much larger problem and that Congress can play a valuable role in raising awareness about this birth defect and promote efforts to help end it,” said Congressman Aderholt. Dandy-Walker Syndrome is a congenital malformation of the cerebellum that can cause developmental delay, is frequently associated with hydrocephalus that can lead to an enlarged head circumference, and can cause neurological damage possibly leading to death. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reports that Dandy-Walker Syndrome may affect as many as 1 in 5,000 live born infants of which approximately 70 to 90 percent will develop hydrocephalus. Treatment for individuals with Dandy-Walker generally consists of treating the associated problems versus the syndrome itself. Hydrocephalus is treated today the same way that was developed in 1952, by inserting a special tube called a shunt into the brain to drain off excess fluid. Ryan Cole, was born on May 3, 2005, 3 months premature weighing 1 pound 15 ounces at George Washington University Hospital in Washington, DC. He would spend a total of 156 days in the hospital his first year of life. His father, Eric Cole stated, “Not only has Rep. Aderholt connected with our family but he’s also engaged at the national level to help increase public awareness of Dandy-Walker Syndrome and hydrocephalus. What he and his office have done to give guidance and support on behalf of disabled members in society who can’t advocate for themselves are something that his constituents can be thankful for.” On May 24, 2007, Congressman Aderholt partnered with Democrat Congressman Chris Van Hollen (MD-8) to co-sponsorHouse Congressional Resolution 163 introduced by Republican Congresswoman Heather Wilson (NM-1) expressing the sense of the Congress in support of further research and activities to increase public awareness, professional education, diagnosis, and treatment of Dandy-Walker Syndrome and hydrocephalus. As of today there are 27 co-sponsors and the resolution enjoys wide bi-partisan support. Inspired by Congressman Aderholt and other Members, Eric and Andrea took the steps to found the only national non-profit for Dandy-Walker Syndrome. Today, the Dandy-Walker Alliance (www.Dandy-Walker.org) is the only non-profit corporation committed to educational and informational activities, programs and publications and supporting non-partisan research and events to increase public awareness of Dandy-Walker Syndrome. The Dandy-Walker Alliance supports all efforts to determine the cause(s) of, find the cure for and to ameliorate the effects of Dandy-Walker Syndrome. The Coles credit Congressman Aderholt and his congressional colleagues in helping to create momentum that has inspired others across the country. A filmmaker from Colorado with a nephew affected by Dandy-Walker is completing the first ever documentary on Dandy-Walker Syndrome (https://www.dandykidsdocumentary.com/) which will premier on January 16, 2008 in Denver, Colorado. A couple in Florida also filmed a commercial with their three-year-old son affected by Dandy-Walker and hydrocephalus to help promote the need for blood donations since these surgeries often require transfusions. Concluded Eric Cole, “Congressman Aderholt and his colleagues engaged when they did not have to and did so by providing bold leadership, guidance and support to act on behalf of millions of disabled members in society who can not advocate for themselves. This is something all residents of Alabama can be proud of and three people in Kensington, Maryland are forever grateful for.”
11.08.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today voted in opposition to H.R. 3685, the Employment Non-Discrimination Act of 2007 (ENDA). Intended to prohibit employment discrimination based on sexual orientation, this bill creates special rights for a certain class of people that is inconsistent with the Equal Rights provisions contained in the U.S. Constitution and the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The bill passed the House by a vote of 235 to 184. Congressman Aderholt stated, “First, I think it's important to say that discrimination of any form is simply wrong and cannot be tolerated. But, legislating in this manner isn't the direction we need to go in. People should succeed based on their personal merits rather than a government imposed quota.” Current laws under the Civil Rights Act offer sufficient protection to groups that have historically been subjected to discrimination on the basis of sex, race and ethnicity. ENDA would create a category of special rights for a specific group based on sexual orientation and forcing employers to hire a person simply to meet certain government imposed quotas rather than their merit as an individual. “Equal protection under the law is one of our nation’s most important and enduring principles. Over the years this concept has grown and adapted as circumstances warranted, most notably with the passage of the landmark Civil Rights Act in 1964,” continued Congressman Aderholt. “Creating a special class of citizens based on sexual orientation is a step that Congress does not need to take at this time.” In addition, ENDA appears to open the door to costly litigation. The bill prohibits discrimination on the basis of imprecise and highly subjective characteristics – for example, “perceived” characteristics – that an employer may have no objective basis to refute. As drafted, the term “perceived” is vague and is not defined anywhere in this bill which will require litigation to determine what it means and how it is to be applied. Further, it represents a radical departure from the Civil Rights Act as the term is not contained in existing civil rights statute, which protects against discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex or national origin.
10.25.2007	Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) and a handful of other Members met this morning with House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-MD) to discuss solutions for the politically stalled State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) bill. This follows a House vote on a retread bill presented by Democrat Leadership that significantly weakens existing Medicaid law in regard to illegal immigrants. Following the meeting, Aderholt called on both parties in Congress to begin negotiations on a bill that can realistically become law. “It’s time for Republicans and Democrats to come together and pass SCHIP reauthorization to help needy children. Congress needs to quit seeking political points and do the right thing for the needy children of this nation,” said Congressman Aderholt. “I don’t understand what part of ‘compromise’ Congress doesn’t get. The bill offered on the House floor today was just another political gimmick aimed at elections that are still over a year away.” H.R. 3963, the Children's Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007, follows on the heels of a previous bill vetoed by President Bush that was upheld by the House of Representatives. Congressman Aderholt supported the original SCHIP legislation when the program was created in 1997 and strongly supports SCHIP today. However, he continues to hear objections by Alabamians that are opposed to provisions in the legislation that would allow illegal immigrants to receive coverage and for families making up to $83,000 to qualify as well. Last week, Congressman Aderholt joined 37 of his Republican colleagues in sending a letter to President Bush urging him to negotiate with Democrats. The letter also provided a framework for negotiations by outlining general principles for discussion. Today, he and several of his colleagues also sent a similar letter to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi this afternoon. Aderholt continued, “The bill on the floor today made superficial changes to what has already been voted on, vetoed, and upheld by the House. Instead of bringing both sides closer and trying to find a real solution, it pushes them further apart by weakening existing law and making it easier for illegal immigrants to receive health care benefits under Medicaid. That does nothing for the nation’s uninsured, needy children.” H.R. 3963 passed the House this afternoon by a vote of 265 to 142. Among the provisions in the bill it would allow states to define income (i.e. “income disregards”) in such a way as to allow SCHIP coverage above 300% of federal poverty; phase childless adults off of SCHIP within a year but allow roughly 700,000 parents to remain on the rolls at least through 2012; weaken the current citizenship documentation requirements, enacted in the Deficit Reduction Act, to make it easier for illegal immigrants to access Medicaid and SCHIP; and, repeal current policy designed to ensure that states prioritize coverage of children below 200% of federal poverty. Congressman Aderholt continues to press for consideration of a resolution he has introduced that would bring true compromise SCHIP legislation to the House Floor immediately. The SCHIP Extension Act was introduced by Representative Barton on September 19, 2007. It maintains current law and increases SCHIP funding levels for 18 months. In Fiscal Year 2008 it provides for $6.5 billion in funding and $3.6 billion for the first 6 months of Fiscal Year 2009. These figures represent a $1.5 billion and $1.1 billion increase respectively over current law. These funds are in addition to the states’ roll-over amounts. By guaranteeing current funding levels, and even increasing funding, the program remains secure while the political debate continues in Washington. According to estimates by the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, the funding increases in the SCHIP Extension Act will ensure that no State would have to reduce their SCHIP benefits package or change their current SCHIP eligibility standards due to a lack of Federal funding. Stated simply, this bill fully funds SCHIP for the entire 18-month period and actually increases total Federal SCHIP funding by more than 33% over current levels. “This Congress needs to quit playing games. Today is another example of Congress spinning its wheels and accomplishing nothing. President Bush will veto this bill and we’ll be right where we started,” concluded Congressman Aderholt. “You can only push the same thing so many times before you’re forced to try something new. It’s time to try something new: compromise.”
10.17.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) last night offered a resolution on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives calling for immediate consideration of a bill to save the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) and provide health care to needy children. H.R. 3584, the SCHIP Extension Act of 2007 by Congressman Joe Barton (TX-06), currently has 139 co-sponsors but has yet to have any action taken on it. “Politics has played entirely too large a role in this issue,” said Congressman Aderholt. “It’s time that everyone remembers what’s important in this debate: providing health insurance to needy children. That’s what a Republican Congress and a Democrat President did in 1997. There’s no reason a Democrat Congress and Republican President can’t do the same in 2007.” On October 3, 2007, President Bush vetoed a SCHIP bill that expands the program by $35 billion, raises the household income eligibility requirements up to $83,000, and also makes it easier for illegal immigrants to join. The House is expected to vote to uphold that veto on Thursday. Congressman Aderholt added, “The SCHIP Extension Act is a bill that I believe would enjoy wide support among both parties if given a fair chance. We need to ensure that political maneuvering does not result in needy kids currently enrolled being cut from the program. The longer this stalemate continues the more likely that scenario becomes. We can all agree to extend the current program while we seek a consensus to make it better.” The SCHIP Extension Act was introduced by Representative Barton on September 19, 2007 and referred to the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. It maintains current law and increases funding levels for 18 months. In Fiscal Year 2008 it provides for $6.5 billion in funding and $3.6 billion for the first 6 months of Fiscal Year 2009. These figures represent a $1.5 billion and $1.1 billion increase respectively. These funds are in addition to the states’ roll-over amounts. By guaranteeing current funding levels, and even increasing funding, the program remains secure while the political debate continues in Washington. According to estimates by the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, the funding increases in the SCHIP Extension Act will ensure that no State would have to reduce their SCHIP benefits package or change their current SCHIP eligibility standards due to a lack of Federal funding. Stated simply, this bill fully funds SCHIP for the entire 18-month period and actually increases total Federal SCHIP funding by more than 33% over current levels. By offering his resolution to the House Rules Committee, Congressman Aderholt is demanding that H.R. 3584 be removed from the Energy and Commerce Committee and placed immediately on the House Calendar for consideration. Aderholt concluded, “I’ve been asked to place children above politics. Last night’s action clearly does just that. I would encourage all of my colleagues, Democrat and Republican, to join my efforts and support our nation’s most vulnerable children. If we are honest with ourselves and put politics aside, this is something everyone should be able to support.”
09.26.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-4) late last night voted against a bill amounting to a $35 billion increase in government health insurance as well as $6.5 billion in Medicaid benefits to illegal immigrants. Originally intended to provide health care coverage to low-income children, H.R. 976, State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) Reauthorization Act of 2007, instead became a tax and spend giveaway that would benefit liberal interests and non-U.S. citizens. “Most Americans would support a bill that provides health insurance to needy, low-income children. I’m one of them. In 1997, I joined my Republican colleagues in doing just that by creating SCHIP,” said Congressman Aderholt. “Since that time, thousands of children in the state of Alabama have received medical care that otherwise would not have been possible. In fact, Alabama has gone above and beyond existing federal requirements by providing mental and dental health coverage to children enrolled in the current program.” Congressman Aderholt has joined his Republican colleagues in sponsoring legislation, the SCHIP Extension Act of 2007 (H.R. 3584) that reauthorizes and fully funds the existing SCHIP for an additional 18 months. To date no action has been taken on this bill. In general, Congressman Aderholt has three concerns with H.R. 976 leading to his opposition of the bill: it is a $35 billion expansion of government health care that makes families earning up to $63,000 or more a year eligible for coverage; it unfairly targets a single group of Americans to pay higher taxes to fund the bill; and, it includes $6.5 billion in health care benefits for illegal immigrants. As agreed to by Democratic members of the House and Senate, H.R. 976 overturns the existing federal requirement that States document the citizenship status and identity of individuals applying for public assistance under the Medicaid program. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates federal taxpayers will be forced to spend an additional $3.7 billion over the next ten years. When the required State-level spending is added, this results in a total $6.5 billion being spent on individuals who wouldn’t otherwise be qualified to receive these benefits. Congressman Aderholt continued, “When given an opportunity to continue this successful program, the liberal leadership in Congress passed. Instead they’ve chosen to substitute a good program with one that raises taxes and provides $6.5 billion in benefits to illegal immigrants. What happened to providing health care coverage to needy children?” H.R. 976 raised concerns that it would defraud the American taxpayer out of billions of dollars by allowing States to use Social Security Numbers in the place of documents that actually prove citizenship status and identity. In response to this ridiculous provision, the nonpartisan Congressional Research Service (CRS) had the following response: “A Social Security card (or having a valid SSN) does not denote citizenship, and is not useful for determining citizenship status . . . Social Security cards issued to noncitizens who are residing permanently in the United States are identical to those issued to U.S. citizens. In addition, aliens who are in the United States temporarily are also eligible for valid SSNs.” (CRS Memorandum, “The Usefulness of Social Security Cards for Determining U.S. Citizenship”) Additionally, the bill allows states to raise eligibility limits to families at 300% of the Federal poverty level (currently $21,000/year) meaning that families making up to $63,000 would be eligible for government subsidized health care. To pay for this expansion of government healthcare the bill unfairly targets a single group of Americans and raises cigarette taxes by 61 cents per pack. “While I don’t endorse smoking, smokers are being unfairly targeted as the sole revenue source to pay for this massive expansion of government healthcare. On top of that, we’re saying that families making $63,000 a year or more should be eligible for government healthcare for their children. That never has been the intent of SCHIP and shouldn’t be now,” stated Aderholt. President Bush has unequivocally stated his opposition to this legislation as drafted and said that he will veto this bill as soon as it reaches his desk. “Big spenders and those who would support socialized medicine in Congress have known this fact for some time and have chosen to play politics and pass legislation with no future just days before SCHIP expires. I urge those responsible to quit playing political chicken and pass a clean reauthorization of this vital and necessary program,” concluded Aderholt.
09.07.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today voted in favor of an increase in Pell Grant funding. In the latest figures available for the 4th Congressional District (2003-2004), there were 10,215 students who received these important higher education funding grants. Across Alabama in 2005-2006, 96,358 students received grants. Under the measure passed by the House and the Senate, a new mandatory funding stream to the federal Pell Grant program that would provide an additional $33.6 billion over ten years. This amount will be above and beyond money that is appropriated for the program each year by Congress. “Education is one of the most important issues impacting our future. Providing money for deserving students to achieve their educational dreams is the right thing to do. With the passage of this bill today, I joined my colleagues in Congress expressing our strong commitment to higher education and lending a hand to those students seeking it.”
09.06.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) announced this evening that he received notification from U.S. Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns that the USDA is releasing emergency funding for Alabama farmers hurt by the drought. Counties that will be approved for Emergency Conservation Program (ECP) funding include Cullman, DeKalb, Etowah, Marshall, and St. Clair. “While the federal government has provided some relief in the form of low interest loans, the farmers I’ve spoken with say this isn’t enough. Tonight’s announcement is a positive one but more must be done. There is also the issue of how quickly this aid will get to them. Time is critical to save pastures and livestock in the areas that have been hit hardest by this record drought.” The ECP program gives producers additional resources to remove debris from farmland, restore fences and conservation structures, provide water for livestock in drought situations and grade and shape farmland damaged by a natural disaster. The program is administered by FSA's state and county committees. Locally-elected county committees are authorized to implement ECP for all disasters except drought, which is authorized at the national office of FSA. Eligible producers will receive cost-share assistance of up to 75 percent of the cost of the approved practice, as determined by FSA county committees. "This is one of several conservation programs that provide funding for farmers and ranchers to rehabilitate and strengthen environmental stewardship of their lands," Secretary Johanns said. "These new ECP funds will be used to help farmers and ranchers rehabilitate farmland damaged by (wind erosion, floods, hurricanes, drought) and other natural disasters in recent years." Producers should check with their local FSA offices regarding ECP sign-up periods, which are set by the county FSA committees. For a producer's land to be eligible, the disaster must create new conservation problems that, if untreated, would impair or endanger the land and affect its productive capacity. Conservation problems existing prior to the applicable disaster are ineligible for ECP assistance. USDA offers additional programs to help farmers and ranchers recover from damages caused by natural disasters. These programs include the Emergency Loan Program, Federal Crop Insurance and the Noninsured Crop Disaster Assistance Program. More information on ECP and other disaster assistance programs is available at local FSA offices and online at: https://www.fsa.usda.gov
08.17.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Late yesterday afternoon, the U.S. Department of Agriculture Farm Service Agency (FSA) announced that they are distributing $1,049,300 million in new Emergency Conservation Program (ECP) funding to help farmers and ranchers in 28 counties in Alabama to rehabilitate land damaged by drought. ECP provides emergency funding and technical assistance for farmers and ranchers to rehabilitate farmland damaged by natural disasters and for carrying out emergency water conservation measures in periods of severe drought. FSA county committees determine land eligibility based on on-site inspections of damage, taking into account the type and extent of damage. The counties in Alabama that were selected by the FSA for ECP funding include Barbour, Blount, Bullock, Calhoun, Clay, Cleburne, Colbert, Coosa, Dale, Elmore, Fayette, Franklin, Geneva, Henry, Jackson, Jefferson, Lamar, Lauderdale, Lawrence, Limestone, Marion, Montgomery, Morgan, Pike, Randolph, Tallapoosa, Walker and Winston. For information regarding the ECP sign up period and eligibility requirements, please contact your local FSA office and online at https://www.fsa.usda.gov. Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) offered the following statement in response to the announcement: “Alabama is facing one of the most severe droughts in the history of our state. The damage being done to our farms and ranches is in many cases unparalleled. While yesterday’s announcement by FSA provides some measure of relief, more needs to be done before the drought passes the point of no return for our farmers and ranchers. I have joined my Alabama House colleagues in requesting a meeting with USDA Secretary Mike Johanns to further discuss what USDA can do to aid farmers. We will also continue to seek emergency federal funding so we can provide direct relief to those in need as soon as possible.”
08.10.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Secretary of Commerce Carlos Gutierrez personally called Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today informing him that the Committee for the Implementation of Textile Agreements (CITA) will immediately begin proceedings to implement a sock safeguard to protect the American sock industry against surging sock imports from Honduras. This proceeding is the first step necessary to fully implement the sock safeguard that Congressman Aderholt has been pursuing on behalf of the domestic sock industry. “Today CITA has decided to self initiate a sock safeguard process against Honduras,” Congressman Aderholt stated. “For some time I’ve called on the Department of Commerce to take action protecting the domestic sock industry against unfair foreign competition. Secretary Gutierrez’s call is a much needed development that promises action against these predatory imports.” The Committee for the Implementation of Textile Agreements (CITA) bears responsibility for safeguard implementation. CITA was established in 1972 and consists of representatives from the Departments of Commerce, State, Labor, and Treasury, and the U.S. Trade Representative's Office. “Today’s call by the Secretary is welcome news,” added Congressman Aderholt. “The numbers don’t lie. Imports have been on the rise while domestic production has declined. A sock safeguard represents one way to ensure that our manufacturers are given an opportunity to adjust to new market conditions and compete on a level playing field.” According to recently revised U.S. Census data on domestic sock production, production dropped by 19.6% in 2006. In the first quarter of 2007, domestic sock production dropped by another 13.5%. At the same time, import data from the Department of Commerce indicates that imports from Honduras have increased almost 50% in the year ending April 2007. World imports have increased 14% over that time. A Honduran sock safeguard has been one of Congressman Aderholt’s top priorities. Aderholt concluded, “This is a very positive step in that we are finally making progress on this issue. The Administration is seeing that imports from these countries are no small thing.”
08.07.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today announced the dates and locations for the annual 4th Congressional District Agriculture and Industry Tour. “I’m pleased to be able to announce the dates and locations for the eighth Annual 4th Congressional District Agriculture and Industry Tour,” said Congressman Aderholt. “North Alabama continues to experience solid economic growth and this tour provides an opportunity to highlight many of our local community’s successes in this area.” Taking place on Thursday, September 13 and Friday, September 14, this eighth annual event will highlight businesses in Cullman and Winston counties. Among the businesses and sites the Congressman will visit are: Topre America (Cullman); The Shrine of the Most Blessed Sacrament of Our Lady of the Angels Monastery (Hanceville); Festhalle Market Platz (Cullman); Cavalier Homes (Addison); and Southern Energy Homes (Addison). Congressman Aderholt continued, “In addition to learning more about these area businesses, this tour also provides me with the opportunity to meet and visit with constituents from across the district. I encourage anyone who has an interest in participating in the tour to call our district office and sign up.” The Agriculture and Industry Tour is open to the public, however space is limited. Anyone interested in attending should contact Jennifer Taylor in the Cullman District Office at (256) 734-6043. The registration fee for the two-day event, which includes transportation, dinner and lunch, is $85. There will be a walking tour of each site. Guests must pre-register by September 5 to attend.
08.01.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) voted today in opposition to H.R. 3162, Children's Health and Medicare Protection (CHAMP) Act, which reauthorizes the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). Congressman Aderholt supported the original SCHIP program in 1997 but was concerned with several provisions in the current bill. The bill passed the House by a 225 to 204 vote. He offered the following statement explaining his vote: “In 1997 I voted in favor of a new federal program that was intended to insure children whose families are low-income but not poor enough to qualify for Medicaid. SCHIP was a partnership between states and the federal government that gave states the flexibility to set their own eligibility requirements and generally run the program in a manner that suited their needs. The bill before the House today represented a gross perversion of that original vision of insurance for needy children. After studying this legislation, it was clear that while I support SCHIP, there was no way possible that I could vote for this liberal piece of legislation. First, and perhaps most importantly, in order to pay for this greatly expanded program Democrats have proposed cutting Medicare spending by at least $194 billion. In the 4th Congressional District that would hurt approximately 10,100 seniors who are currently enrolled in a Medicare Advantage Program. I will not support, nor will I vote for, any legislation that hurts senior citizens this way. Second, this proposal guts the current income eligibility requirements. It opens the door for families who already have private insurance coverage to participate in the program. It raises the eligibility age of “children” participating in the program to 25 and permits states to enroll childless adults as well. At the end of the day, this isn’t an insurance program for children any longer but rather the beginnings of a national socialized health care system such as Hillary Clinton proposed years ago. Finally, I believe it’s important to note that there are concerns that illegal immigrants may be eligible for SCHIP benefits under this proposal. I think most Americans would be very reluctant for Congress to go in that direction. At the end of the day, I believe that this bill guts SCHIP and kills its original purpose. Therefore, that’s not something I can support.” ###
07.27.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) announced that he opposed the Farm Bill voted on today in the U.S. House of Representatives because it features a stealth tax possibly affecting 70,000 jobs in the state of Alabama: “The leadership of the House of Representatives has taken a liberal path while saying that they would run the most open and honest House in history. Now, we see the truth of that statement with what has traditionally been a bi-partisan agriculture bill. Instead of working with Republicans, the House’s liberal leadership added a $4 billion tax increase on the American people behind closed doors at the last minute and without discussion, debate or any committee hearings. This stealth tax increase is targeted at U.S. subsidiary manufacturers, companies that would include Huhtamaki Food Service, Honda, Mercedes, Hyundai, and ThyssenKrupp Steel to name only a few. By voting for this bill, I would have been telling them and other manufacturers that we don’t appreciate their business or the jobs that they provide. In Alabama alone, that means 70,000 jobs. Certainly, I believe in Alabama’s farmers. There were provisions in the bill that I support and believe would be good for our state, but, in good conscience I can’t support this attack on companies that provide good, high paying jobs to so many Alabamians.”
07.26.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today announced that the House of Representatives fully funded the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Exploration Systems at the President’s requested level of $3.923 billion. “This is an important day for NASA and the Marshall Space Flight Center in particular. For the last several years NASA, particularly its exploration programs, has suffered from a lack of funding that has compromised its core missions,” said Congressman Aderholt. “My hope is that this is only the first step in an ongoing effort to ensure that the United States remains a leader in space exploration.” The bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives today by a vote of 281 to 142. On April 18, 2007, Congressman Aderholt sent a letter to Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Chairman Alan Mollohan and Ranking Member Rodney Frelinghuysen requesting that NASA Exploration Systems be funded at $4.423 billion. This amount was a $500 million increase over the President’s requested level. This increase was intended to make up for the $500 million cut that occurred when Congress passed the FY2007 Continuing Resolution earlier this year. “This significant cut in funding for NASA’s Exploration Systems was one of the reasons that I voted against the Continuing Resolution,” said Congressman Aderholt. “NASA told Congress that it would take this $500 million increase in order to make them whole. While that hasn’t happened yet I hold out hope that as this bill moves through the legislative process additional money will be found to make this happen.” The FY2008 Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies bill provides the annual funding for several federal departments including the U.S. Department of Commerce, the Justice Department, NASA and other agencies. The bill now moves to the U.S. Senate for further action. To see a copy of Congressman Aderholt's April 18, 2007 letter, please click on the link below.
07.20.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) has sponsored legislation that would ease restrictions on farm trucks engaged in transporting agricultural products within state lines. The bill, H.R. 3098 is a joint effort between himself, Congressman Dan Boren (OK-2), and Congresswoman Mary Fallin (OK-5) and was introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives yesterday. “There’s clearly a problem when local farmers trying to transport their goods to market are being subjected to rules intended for large commercial trucks,” stated Congressman Aderholt. “Instead of improving road safety farmers are facing more red tape, greater costs and countless bureaucratic headaches.” Currently, farm trucks operating within a state’s borders are classified as commercial motor vehicles meaning they must comply with federal regulations such as registering their vehicle with the U.S. Department of Transportation, holding a commercial drivers license and logging their driving hours-of-service. This bill would adjust the federal definition of commercial motor vehicles and specifically exempt drivers and farm trucks engaged in the intrastate transportation of agricultural products. Aderholt continued, “Highway safety is paramount to everyone but there’s a difference between short-haul farm trucks and larger commercial trucks operating regionally or cross-country. It’s a straightforward issue that requires a commonsense solution.” The Alabama Farmers Federation is supportive of the bill sponsored by Congressman Aderholt. “We appreciate the commitment by Congressman Aderholt, as well as the entire Alabama delegation, to help Alabama farmers retain the agricultural exemption for DOT registration while also ensuring there is no loss of federal funding to the state of Alabama,” said Jerry Newby, President of the Alabama Farmers Federation. “It’s clear that this issue is broader in scope than just Alabama, and we will work with our colleagues from the American Farm Bureau Federation to ensure we maintain the exemptions.”
07.19.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – After an extended debate during a House Appropriations Committee markup, U.S. Representatives Robert Aderholt (Ala.-04) and Bud Cramer (Ala.-05) received a commitment from Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee Chair Rosa DeLauro that she would work in the upcoming emergency supplemental to assist Alabama farmers suffering from exceptional drought. Today’s commitment resulted from ongoing discussion by Representatives Aderholt, Cramer, and DeLauro regarding relief for communities designated by the Secretary of Agriculture suffering from a D-4 drought. A D-4 or “exceptional” drought is the highest possible drought classification. “This is one of the worst droughts in our nation’s history and farmers across the country are counting on us to provide relief,” said Cramer. “My district is in the bullseye of the drought, and many of them are expecting a near loss of their total crops. It is critical that we provide farmers in North Alabama the relief they need to keep families in the farming business and keep American agriculture the strongest in the world.” Aderholt added, “While the federal government has provided some relief in the form of low interest loans, the farmers I’ve spoken with say this isn’t enough and additionally we’ve found that not all those affected by the drought qualify. There is also the issue of how quickly this aid will get to them. Time is critical to save pastures and livestock in the areas that have been hit hardest by this record drought.” Over the past several months, Congressman Aderholt has been very active in providing federal assistance to Alabama farmers: · Met with U.S. Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns to discuss Alabama drought conditions leading to all 67 Alabama counties being declared disaster areas by Secretary Johanns. · Led an effort by the Alabama Congressional Delegation to ask congressional appropriators to provide $10 million to Alabama through the Emergency Conservation program to rehabilitate drought ravaged pasture and drill additional wells to feed and water livestock. Also sought $7 million for Alabama through the Livestock Assistance Program. · Has sought to extend disaster relief passed by Congress to include crop losses due to the April freeze in Alabama. · Aderholt staff has held numerous discussions with the federal Farm Service Agency in Alabama to determine the extent of damage in North Alabama and work to assist area farmers.
07.17.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today announced the inclusion of $1,200,000 in funding for the states' Risk Based Data Management System, a portion of which will go to the Geological Survey of Alabama, located at the University of Alabama. The funds were included in the 2008 Energy and Water Appropriations bill at the request of Congressman Aderholt. The bill passed the House of Representatives today by a vote of 312 to 112. The money would be used by the Geological Survey of Alabama for oil and gas electronic commerce and environmental protection initiatives that in the past has allowed the expansion of oil and natural gas production in Alabama while providing enhanced environmental protection. “With gas prices as high as they are today, it is critical that we do everything possible to increase domestic production of oil while protecting the environment. This project at the Geological Survey of Alabama could help do just that,” said Congressman Aderholt. The Geological Survey of Alabama, established in 1848, provides service and information to Alabama and its citizens as a natural resource data gathering and research agency. As part of its mission, GSA explores and evaluates the mineral, water, energy, biological, and other natural resources of the State of Alabama and conducts basic and applied research in these fields. The 2008 Energy and Water Appropriations bill provides funding for several departments including the U.S. Department of Energy and related agencies such as the Appalachian Regional Commission. The bill now moves to the Senate for consideration.
06.28.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This morning, the U.S. Senate failed to invoke cloture that would have allowed a final vote on a bill seeking comprehensive immigration reform. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) immediately pulled the bill from the Senate floor following the vote and it is unclear when or even if it will again be considered. “This is a major victory for everyone who believes that our nation’s borders must first be secure before we consider other aspects of immigration reform,” said Congressman Aderholt. “For some time it’s appeared that the Senate was pursuing action that was unfavorable to many, including a vast majority of those I represent.” The 53-46 vote was short of the 60 votes needed to end debate on the bill and move to a final vote. Following the vote, Senator Reid pulled the bill from consideration. Under Senate rules, he can bring it back to the floor at any time but such action appears unlikely until he has 60 votes to end debate. “I’d like to thank Senators Sessions and Shelby for their efforts to defeat this bill in the Senate. I believe this legislation raised serious questions about amnesty for illegal immigrants that the nation isn’t prepared to answer at this time,” Congressman Aderholt added. Congressman Aderholt concluded, “I hear time and time again from constituents that they hope Congress will take this opportunity to really address the problem of illegal immigration by securing our borders first, not by securing amnesty for those who are here illegally.”
06.22.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - On Tuesday, June 19, Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) sent a letter to U.S. Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez asking him to take another look at a sock safeguard targeted at Honduras. Congressman Aderholt stated, “Domestic sock production continues to fall while world imports, particularly those from Honduras, continue to rise. In my mind there is no doubt that a sock safeguard targeted at Honduran imports is warranted. U.S. sock manufacturers are clearly hurting and government intervention on their behalf needs to happen sooner rather than later.” According to recently revised U.S. Census data on domestic sock production, production dropped by 19.6% in 2006. In the first quarter of 2007, domestic sock production dropped by another 13.5%. At the same time, import data from the Department of Commerce indicates that imports from Honduras have increased almost 50% in the year ending April 2007. World imports have increased 14% over that time. “Almost two years ago the Administration made certain promises in regard to the protection of U.S. sock producers from CAFTA countries,” said Congressman Aderholt. “To this point those promises remain unfulfilled. Over the course of several meetings with me, Secretary Gutierrez has demonstrated that he’s aware of these promises and committed to fulfilling them once he has the data to justify action. With these revised production and import figures I believe that he now has the necessary data to implement a sock safeguard.” The Committee for the Implementation of Textile Agreements (CITA) bears responsibility for safeguard implementation. CITA was established in 1972 and consists of representatives from the Departments of Commerce, State, Labor, and Treasury, and the U.S. Trade Representative's Office. Congressman Aderholt concluded, “Honduran sock imports have risen dramatically over the last year and constitute the largest threat to Fort Payne’s sock manufacturers. CITA has it within its power to protect them. My mission is to see that it happens.” To see the letter, click on the link below.
06.20.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today introduced an amendment to the 2008 Energy and Water Appropriations bill that increases funding for the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) by $30 million. The amendment was co-sponsored by Congressman Zack Space (D-OH 18). Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development Chairman Peter Visclosky has said he will work with Aderholt and Space on their funding increase request. “ARC has proven to be a real benefit to Alabama and the 12 other member states,” said Congressman Aderholt. “It has provided funding to needy communities that might not otherwise have been available, creating jobs and opportunity as a result.” Established by Congress in 1965, ARC was created to address the persistent poverty and growing economic despair of the Appalachian Region, extending from southern New York to northeast Mississippi. At that time, one of every three Appalachians lived in poverty, per capita income was 23 percent lower than the U.S. average, and high unemployment and harsh living conditions had, in the 1950s, forced more than 2 million Appalachians to leave their homes and seek work in other regions. “The Administration’s proposed ARC funding level was cut by $30 million, a cut that would have been devastating to ARC and its member states. I’d like to thank Congressman Space for working with me in order to restore full funding and Chairman Visclosky for his commitment to work with us on this issue,” continued Congressman Aderholt. Today, ARC works with the people of Appalachia to create opportunities for self-sustaining economic development to bring the area to socio-economic parity with the rest of the country. The restoration of ARC funds will be offset by a $30 million reduction to the Department of Energy’s administrative account. Congressman Aderholt concluded, “I recognize the importance of ARC for North Alabama and will continue to work to ensure that Congress and the Administration see this importance as well.”
06.15.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today joined a bipartisan effort to expand and improve family programming options for cable and satellite television consumers. The Family and Consumer Choice Act of 2007 offers a common sense solution to the problem of offensive, vulgar, violent and/or obscene programming that is currently forced on consumers by cable and satellite providers. “A parents job is to parent. Let me make it clear, this legislation isn’t a substitute for parental involvement but rather a tool for parents to better monitor and control what their children are watching on TV,” said Congressman Aderholt. “This bill offers a common sense approach that allows parents to parent and limit what their children are exposed to on television.” Currently consumers face limited choices of family programming and are forced to pay for many channels they don’t want. For example, in order to get popular educational, news and sports channels consumers are forced to also get channels that may be objectionable for children such as Spike TV or MTV. Polls have confirmed that parents are concerned that their children are being bombarded by obscene, indecent and violent programming. A late 2005 AP/Ipsos Poll showed that 66% of Americans say there is too much sex on TV and 68% say there is too much violence. Congressman Aderholt continued, “The way the system works now, in order to get channels that families want to watch, they are also forced to get channels they don’t want. When you go to the store to purchase a shirt, you’re not required to buy a pair of pants as well. Consumers deserve more options, not fewer. This bill is intended to give them those options without limiting what other consumers want to choose. ” The Family and Consumer Choice Act would require any multi-channel video programming distributor (cable or satellite provider) to do one of the following: limit indecent programming during daylight hours as broadcast television now does, offer a family tier of programming, or offer an opt-out “a-la-carte” cable package to customers. “This is an important issue for America’s families. That’s one reason that I decided to be an original co-sponsor of this bill. My children are another reason. I believe more households would subscribe to these services as a result of this legislation. This should be good for the cable and satellite companies,” concluded Congressman Aderholt.
06.08.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) announced today that District Field Representative Jason Harper will be traveling through the district next week to provide assistance to those who may need help with federal issues or casework. “With a district that stretches across the state it can be difficult for people to travel to our district offices to discuss their issues,” said Congressman Aderholt. “By bringing district staff into local communities we can reach out to people who otherwise couldn’t get assistance.” Mr. Harper will be in the following locations to assist residents unable to visit one of Congressman Aderholt’s four district offices: • Friday, June 15 in Fort Payne at the Fort Payne City Hall from 9:00 – 11:00 a.m. • Friday, June 15 in Guntersville at the Guntersville City Hall from 1:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m. Some of the most common questions the Congressman’s offices receive are about Social Security, Veteran’s Affairs and Medicare. A list of the services provided by Congressman Aderholt’s office can be found at www.aderholt.house.gov. Congressman Aderholt concluded, “My job is to serve the people of the 4th District of Alabama. We’re constantly looking at ways that we can do this job just a little bit better. This is an excellent opportunity for folks to come and discuss their issues with Jason and begin the process of finding solutions to them.”
06.08.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today announced that he successfully included $4.75 million in the Fiscal Year 2008 Homeland Security Appropriations bill to continue textile transshipment enforcement. “U.S. textile manufacturers, and especially sock manufacturers, have had a tough time over the last several years fighting against foreign manufacturers that utilize unnatural and unfair business practices. When you add illegal textile imports to the equation, their job becomes even more difficult. That’s why it’s so important for the U.S. government to undertake proactive efforts to keep these illegal products from reaching store shelves,” said Congressman Aderholt. Many different schemes are used to evade duty or quotas on textiles being brought into the country. Some importers circumvent quotas by transshipment, the practice of changing the country of origin of their goods. Still others use false documents or labels or provide incorrect descriptions of the merchandise. Over the last several years, Congressman Aderholt has worked to include funding for U.S. Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) Immigration and Customs Enforcement to stop illegal textile transshipments totaling $19 million over the last two years. Congressman Aderholt continued, “Sock manufacturers, particularly those in Fort Payne, are among the best in the world. They can compete with anyone provided that the playing field is level. Unfortunately, that’s not the case at this point. Stopping these illegal transshipments is one definitive way that we can make a difference and support our local industry.” Customs has announced that in 2006 they seized more than $100 million in wearing apparel and textile goods that were misrepresented, smuggled or illegally transshipped in an effort to circumvent U.S. textile trade laws and regulations. Of that amount, $3 million worth of socks were confiscated.Congressman Aderholt concluded, “Alabama’s textile manufacturers provide good jobs. I’ll continue to do everything in my power to help protect those jobs because they’re too important to do otherwise.”
06.07.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today voted against a measure that would increase federal funding for and reverse current Administration policy regarding embryonic stem cell research, a controversial method that many feel destroys human life. S. 5, the “Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2007,” passed the House this afternoon by a vote of 247 to 176. The bill now goes to President Bush who has stated his intention to veto it. Congressman Aderholt stated, “The simple fact is many taxpayers have moral problems with their tax dollars going toward research that destroys human embryonic stem cells. Especially since viable research that doesn’t destroy embryos can be performed on adult stem cells. We all support tax dollars going to that type of research.” “Medical and scientific research are worthy pursuits that are leading to life saving advances every day,” Congressman Aderholt continued. “Bills such as the one that passed today however suggest that embryonic stem cell research is the only path available to us. That’s just not the case, and as such, cannot justify the destruction of human life that this research entails.” S. 5, the “Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2007,” would expand the number of stem cell lines that are eligible for research funded by federal taxpayers. The goal of the bill is to accelerate scientific progress toward cures and treatments for a wide range of diseases and debilitating health conditions. Under the current federal policy on human embryonic stem cell research, only those stem cell lines derived before August 9, 2001, are eligible for federally funded research. This bill lifts that restriction. Stem cell lines shall be eligible for federally funded research regardless of the date on which they were derived. Congressman Aderholt continued, “Since 2004, federal funding for research on adult stem cells has risen by 60%. This is important because this research doesn’t involve the destruction of human life and that is something everyone can support. It’s also significant that before 2001 this funding was nonexistent.” If President Bush vetoes this bill as expected, it would then go back to the Senate to begin override proceedings. If overridden in the Senate it would then return to the House for a final vote. “My fear is that in their rush to judgment, Washington liberals have ignored recent advances in favor of the latest fad, embryonic stem cell research. Just yesterday, researchers announced they have achieved the equivalent of “turning back time” by producing embryonic stem cells without destroying a human embryo. Instead of encouraging research such as this, Congress is passing legislation that destroys human embryos. I urge President Bush to veto this bill quickly and call on my House and Senate colleagues to uphold such a veto.”
05.24.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - On Wednesday, a flag carried by the 1st Alabama Infantry Regiment during the War Between the States was presented to the Alabama delegation by the Nebraska delegation. In a ceremony outside the Cannon House Office Building in Washington, D.C., Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) joined Congressman Terry Everett (R-AL 3) in accepting the flag from the Nebraska State Historical Society. “It was an honor to be present as a piece of Alabama’s history began its journey home,” said Congressman Aderholt. “It’s been a long road since this flag first left Montgomery in early 1861. Soon it will have a permanent home at the Alabama State Archives where its story can educate a new generation of Alabamians.” The 1st Alabama Infantry was the first unit from Alabama to enter Confederate service. At the time of its creation, Alabama did not have a state flag so this particular regimental flag was an important identifying symbol for both the state and the regiment itself. The flag was carried by the regiment until they were surrendered at Island Number 10 near New Madrid, Missouri on April 8, 1862. Congressman Aderholt continued, “I’d like to thank the people of Nebraska for returning this flag to the Alabama Archives. The Civil War continues to stir a great deal of controversy to this day, but I believe it’s important to recognize it for what it was. It represented a seminal moment in American history when our country became a nation - bound together despite our differences.” The flag was handmade in Montgomery sometime after March 4, 1861. It is identical to the original Confederate national flag raised on that date except that it has an Alabama coat of arms in the center of the circle of seven stars representing the first states to secede from the United States. Following the bombardment of Ft. Sumter on April 12, 1861, four other states seceded and the Confederate flag subsequently carried eleven stars. The flag was captured by Union forces under the command of Brigadier General Eleazer Arthur Paine. The flag was then passed down to E.A. Paine’s son Phelps who eventually settled in Nebraska where the flag was displayed at the headquarters of the local chapter of the Grand Army of the Republic (GAR), Union veterans of the Civil War. Upon his death the flag remained with the GAR until that collection was transferred to the Nebraska Historical Society. The flag remained unidentified at the Nebraska Historical Society until May 2006. Once identified, it was proposed that the flag be deaccessioned and returned to Alabama. Ed Bridges, director of the Alabama Department of Archives and History, and Bob Bradley, curator of the state archives, personally took possession of the flag at yesterday’s repatriation ceremony. Once conservation work on the flag is completed, it will be permanently housed at the Alabama Department of Archives and History in Montgomery. NOTE: To see more photos from this event, please click here.
05.23.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) praised the expected release of a study by the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) that recommends that the leaking Bear Creek Dam be repaired or rebuilt by TVA at a potential cost of $35 million. The recommendation is expected to be released by TVA in a draft Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) that describes the possible actions and impacts from each of the alternatives studied. “This is great news for Franklin County, Northwest Alabama and its residents. The problem with Bear Creek Dam was called to my attention back in 2006, threatening the area’s drinking water supply,” said Congressman Aderholt. “With this recommendation, TVA is assuring the safety of the community and the continued well-being of Bear Creek Dam.” Bear Creek dam has had problems with leaking and needs repair to correct the problem and ensure the safety of the county’s drinking water supply. Prior to the study, TVA had been ambiguous about any plans regarding the dam and whether they would make repairs to the dam or attempt to remove it completely. Congressman Aderholt met with Tom Kilgore, chief executive officer of the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) to discuss this matter with the dam last month, on April 27, 2007. “I’d like to thank Tom Kilgore for his attention to this matter and his willingness to meet with me to discuss it,” continued Congressman Aderholt. In June 2006, then Chairman David Hobson of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water sent a letter to Mr. Kilgore at the request of Congressman Aderholt asking for detailed information on TVA’s plans for the dam. In his September 2006 response, Mr. Kilgore stated that TVA was studying alternatives for stopping the leakage problem at the dam, ranging from repairing to removing the dam. Today’s announcement is in response to the April 27 meeting and other actions taken by Congressman Aderholt and his staff. After the release of the EIS, there will be a 45 day window in which TVA can respond to comments. Following that they will issue a final EIS that will be out for review for 30 days. TVA will look to issue the Record of Decision in September, thus completing the study. While this is ongoing TVA will have an engineering firm working on designs with construction ideally starting by late fall.
05.22.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) announced today his strong opposition to the amnesty provision that is included in the new Border Security and Immigration Reform Agreement that was announced on Friday by Members of the United States Senate. “The people of Alabama and the Fourth District have made it clear that they do not like amnesty, therefore I cannot support any legislation that includes such a provision for illegal immigrants,” Congressman Aderholt stated. “No amnesty is what we’re hearing. Any ‘compromise’ that includes amnesty is really no compromise at all.” Under the current Senate proposal, no illegal immigrant will be allowed to receive permanent residency if they have not completed certain steps over an 8 to 12 year period. Those steps include: show nearly constant employment for at least 8 years in the future; demonstrate English proficiency; show familiarity with American civics; pay substantial fines; and prove he has not been convicted of a felony. Congressman Aderholt continued, “Allowing an 8 to 12 year grace period for illegal immigrants is of major concern. It stretches credibility to believe that people will take the steps necessary to follow this path before it’s too late. It is far more likely that in 6 years as illegal immigrants face this new deadline, a different Congress will offer legislation that will wipe out any penalties and allow these illegal immigrants a free and clear road to citizenship. Just look at our past history.” In 1986, Congress passed the Immigration Reform and Control Act. That law legalized some 2.7 million illegal immigrants, but because mandated enforcement measures were never put in place, millions more are believed to have illegally crossed the border in the hope of citizenship. It is now estimated that there are 12 million illegal immigrants in the United States. “The United States is a welcoming place for immigrants who enter the country legally. It always has been and always will be,” concluded Congressman Aderholt. “The concern is that this compromise would only encourage more illegal immigrants to enter the country and further exacerbate our current problems. Congress must take a stand and put the needs of our country first. What the Senate has proposed fails to do that.”
05.03.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Aderholt voted today in opposition to H.R. 1592, the Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act of 2007, a bill that undermines the constitutional principle of equal justice under the law as well as freedom of speech. The bill passed the House by a vote of 237 to 180. “The Bill of Rights was added to our Constitution expressly to protect the rights of all Americans,” Congressman Aderholt stated. “Not just certain Americans, but all of them. The bill that passed the House today ignores the principle of equal justice under the law and threatens to place limits on Americans’ freedom of speech, exactly the opposite of what the Founding Fathers intended.” Equal justice under the law is one of the cornerstones of the U.S. Constitution, providing equality and justice for all Americans regardless of race, sex or status. According to the Constitution, justice should be blind to the personal traits of victims. Under this bill, justice is no longer equal, but turns on the race, gender, sexual orientation, disability or other protected status of the victim. “This bill not only tramples equal justice under the law, it goes several steps further” added Congressman Aderholt. “There is concern out there that if this bill becomes law that religious leaders or members of religious groups could be criminally prosecuted based on comments that are taken out of context.” Hate crimes legislation, as represented by this bill, has already been used by left-leaning local governments to target expressions of traditional morality as “hate speech.” In New York for example, a pastor who had rented billboards and posted biblical quotations on sexual morality had them taken down by city officials who cited hate-crimes principles as justification. Additionally, the bill creates a new federal “thought crime” that requires law enforcement officials to probe, infer and deduce if a crime occurred “because of” bias towards a protected group, with a new grants program that could accidentally lead to false accusations of motive. A criminal’s thoughts will be considered an element of the crime, which the government must prove beyond a reasonable doubt. Congressman Aderholt concluded, “No one should harbor hate or ill-will toward another person; I condemn that and I believe most Americans do. However, this is a situation where a person is given privileged status and protection based on their race, gender, sexual orientation or disability.”
05.02.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) will join millions of Americans tomorrow in recognizing the 56th celebration of the National Day of Prayer (NDP). The National Day of Prayer tradition predates the founding of the United States of America, evidenced by the Continental Congress' proclamation in 1775 setting aside a day of prayer. In 1952, Congress established an annual day of prayer and, in 1988, that law was amended, designating the National Day of Prayer as the first Thursday in May. “Prayer has long been a part of our nation’s history,” Congressman Aderholt said. “The National Day of Prayer allows people an opportunity to reflect and thank God for the blessings that he has bestowed on the United States of America. With America at war and seeing incidents like what happened at Virginia Tech recently, this nation is more than ever in need of prayer.” This year's theme, "America, Unite in Prayer," is based on 2 Chronicles 7:14: "If my people, who are called by my name, will humble themselves and pray, and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven, will forgive their sin, and will heal their land." Millions will answer the call to prayer on May 3rd in observance of the NDP. Organized events will be held in thousands of public venues across the nation from city halls to courthouses in large and small towns in all 50 states where intercession will be made for our nation, government leaders, media, schools, churches, and families. While these events are ongoing, the organizers of the NDP will convene in the Cannon House Office Building in Washington, D.C. to observe this 56th annual event. Also in conjunction with the NDP, a separate event took place where the entire Bible is being read on the West Front of the United States Capitol. Congressman Aderholt and many others on Capitol Hill stopped by to read during the five day event. Congressman Aderholt concluded, “Prayer has played such an important role in the life of this nation. I’m thankful for the opportunity to express my beliefs in a nation that celebrates religious freedom and tolerance. When you witness the strife in other parts of the world you realize how special it is to pray freely to a God of your own choosing.”
05.01.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - With President Bush vetoing the War Supplemental Spending bill, Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) offered the following statement on the veto and what it means for additional spending programs that were included in the measure: “I applaud the decision by President Bush to veto the War Supplemental Spending bill. This bill was intended to fully fund the troops who are in harm’s way in Iraq and Afghanistan. Congress cannot place itself in a position to make decisions regarding an artificial withdrawal timeline that properly belongs to the President and his generals. The primary purpose of this bill seems to be to tie the hands of our commanders on the ground in such a way that they can’t possibly succeed. Having said that, however, I’m very supportive of several programs contained in the War Supplemental, particularly funding intended to help farmers who have lost their crops this year. It’s unfortunate that the liberal leaders in Congress have chosen to muddy the waters and inject this vital program into the middle of the war debate. Everyone understood the President’s position on vetoing this bill. If the leadership of the House truly cares about America’s farmers they will immediately bring a crop disaster aid bill to the floor so that we can quickly vote on it and send it on to the President for signature.”
04.27.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) announced today that District Field Director Paul Housel will be traveling through the district in the next several weeks to provide assistance to those who may need help with federal issues or casework. “With a district that stretches across the state it can be difficult for people to travel to our district offices to discuss their issues,” said Congressman Aderholt. “By bringing district staff into local communities we can reach out to people who otherwise couldn’t get assistance.” Mr. Housel will be in the following locations to assist residents unable to visit one of Congressman Aderholt’s four district offices: • Thursday, May 3 in Gordo at the Gordo City Hall from 9:00 – 11:00 a.m. • Friday, May 11 in Vernon at the Vernon City Hall from 9:00 – 11:00 a.m. • Friday, May 11 in Fayette at the Fayette City Hall from 1:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m. Some of the most common questions the Congressman’s offices receive are about Social Security, Veteran’s Affairs and Medicare. A list of the services provided by Congressman Aderholt’s office can be found at https://aderholt.house.gov. Congressman Aderholt concluded, “My job is to serve the people of the 4th District of Alabama. We’re constantly looking at ways that we can do this job just a little bit better. This is an excellent opportunity for folks to come and discuss their issues with Paul and begin the process of finding solutions to them.”
04.27.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - On Tuesday, Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) met with Tom Kilgore, chief executive officer of the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) to discuss Bear Creek Dam in Franklin County. Bear Creek dam has had problems with leaking and is in need of repair so that the county’s drinking water supply is not threatened. Up to this point, TVA has been ambiguous about any plans regarding the dam or whether they will make repairs to the dam or attempt to remove it completely. “Bear Creek Dam is vital to Franklin County and the entire area. County residents are justifiably concerned about the future of their drinking water supply and TVA’s potential actions in the matter,” said Congressman Aderholt. “This is especially true since it was our understanding that it was at TVA’s recommendation that the project was removed from Little Bear Creek Reservoir to its current site at Bear Creek Reservoir.” In June 2006, then Chairman David Hobson of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water sent a letter to Mr. Kilgore at the request of Congressman Aderholt asking for detailed information on TVA’s plans for the dam. In his September 2006 response, Mr. Kilgore stated that TVA was studying alternatives for stopping the leakage problem at the dam, ranging from repairing to removing the dam. That study is expected to be completed by autumn 2007. During the course of the meeting Congressman Aderholt expressed his concerns regarding TVA’s lack of a public commitment to begin repairs on the existing dam. Mr. Kilgore was very receptive to the Congressman’s concerns and said that TVA would look at all possible options in the matter. He concluded, “I believe Mr. Kilgore understood the concerns of our area and the importance of the dam to the county. This problem has far reaching consequences that spread beyond Franklin County. I will continue to remain on top of this issue and work with TVA and Mr. Kilgore to find a solution for the Franklin County area and its residents.”
04.25.2007	.newsdiv { width: 510px;border: 1px solid #5C7A97;background-color:#C6B78C;padding:5px; margin-top:-10px; display: inline; margin-bottom:30px;margin-right:60px; margin-top:10px;}.newsMonth ul { list-style-type: none; list-style-image: none; margin: 0; padding: 0; }.newsMonth li {display: inline; padding:5px}div.newsYear { width: 70px; float: left; }.newsdiv ul { margin: 2px 0px 2px 14px; padding:0px; }.newsData li { padding-bottom: 10px;} #sectionid_1 #rightbox #pushedid_117 .sectionintro { height: 350px; overflow:hidden; overflow:scroll; overflow:auto }Return to News & MediaIn order to let the media know about what is happening in Congress and what I think about things, my office sends out press releases and press statements. In this section you'll find copies of the information that I've sent to the press and that you might have seen in your local newspaper or on your radio or television. Please note that some of these releases also include attached files that require Adobe Reader to view the attachments. To download a free version of Adobe Reader, please click here.
04.24.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today offered the following statement regarding NASA funding for FY07 and FY08 and what it means for the future of the Robotic Lunar Program: “I was very encouraged to see Senator Shelby work to restore FY07 funding for the Robotic Lunar Program. This isn’t a luxury vehicle that we’re talking about but rather a crucial component of our nation’s lunar program that will extend mission capabilities while protecting astronauts from potentially dangerous situations. Securing the FY07 funding as Senator Shelby is attempting is important because once a program has been delayed or terminated, it can be very difficult to ever get it started again. On April 18 I sent a letter to Chairman Mollohan of the Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations Subcommittee adding to that effort by emphasizing the importance of protecting the specific Exploration portion of the budget which includes the Crew Launch Vehicle work. When this budget is cut, as happened in the Continuing Resolution for FY07, NASA legally can’t move money from aeronautics, or weather research, or other budget categories to make up for it. The Crew Launch Vehicle, the Robotic Lunar Program, and other programs require years of steady funding for success. To cut their funding in any one year places the entire program in danger in outlying years. Unless we undo the damage caused by the FY07 Continuing Resolution and maintain a steady funding stream, these programs risk being delayed or fizzling out entirely. Money for programs this large and complicated has to be included year by year. No President, and no Congress, is likely to propose and approve a dramatic spike in funding a few years from now in order to make up for previous low funding years. This issue also has national security implications as well. Today, Space is increasingly a matter of national security and not simply science for science’s sake. China has an extremely robust space development program that could be a threat to the United States in the future. We cannot allow this to happen by placing our own space program in a position where it is left to wither on the vine.”
04.20.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today introduced legislation in the House of Representatives that will correct problems dealing with the recognition of notarizations across state lines. The Interstate Recognition of Notarizations (IRON) Act, H.R. 1979, previously passed the House of Representatives in December 2006. However, the legislation failed to pass the Senate in the final hours of the 109th Congress. “This issue continues to be a problem for businesses and individuals who engage in business across state lines,” said Congressman Aderholt. “My legislation offers a commonsense solution to a problem that is more widespread than is generally recognized.” The IRON Act would eliminate the confusion which arises when states refuse to acknowledge the integrity of documents notarized out-of-state. This legislation would require that documents be recognized in any state or federal court if the subject affects interstate commerce and the document is duly notarized by seal or if a seal is tagged to an electronic document. The bill does not preclude the challenge of a notarized document, such as a will contest. Currently, each state is responsible for regulating its notaries. Typically, someone who wishes to become a notary pays a fee, submits an application and takes an oath of office. Some states require applicants to enroll in an educational course, pass an exam, and obtain a notary bond. This legislation does not change how the individual states regulate notaries in any manner. Congressman Aderholt continued, “I believe that this is a simple problem that needs to be addressed sooner rather than later. This is a bill that everyone in Congress can get behind and I look forward to its swift passage and enactment.” H.R. 1979 is expected to be referred to the House Committee on the Judiciary. Representatives Artur Davis (D-AL) and Bruce Braley (D-IA) are the original cosponsors.
04.18.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, the United States Supreme Court upheld the nationwide ban on partial birth abortions passed by Congress in 2003 in a 5-4 ruling. Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) cosponsored, and was a strong supporter of the Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act, which protects the unborn by prohibiting the procedure in which an intact, living, fetus is partially delivered, and then killed. “Today is a great day in our continuing fight to protect the lives of the unborn. I applaud the Supreme Court’s ruling in that they have reaffirmed the sanctity of life,” offered Congressman Aderholt. In its ruling, the Court held that opponents of the act “have not demonstrated that the Act would be unconstitutional in a large fraction of relevant cases.” Those siding with the majority included Chief Justice John Roberts, Justice Anthony Kennedy, Justice Samuel Alito, Justice Clarence Thomas, and Justice Antonin Scalia. Congressman Aderholt continued, “When people discuss abortion there is a tendency to couch the argument in terms of being simply a choice or decision. That’s not what the Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act is about. This ban has everything to do with protecting the innocent lives of the most vulnerable among us and the cruel procedure of partial birth abortion.” He concluded by saying, “Life is precious. To have continued allowing such a brutal, barbaric procedure is unconscionable. Again, I applaud the Supreme Court’s decision and look forward to the day when life, in all its forms, is given the respect it so richly deserves.”
04.04.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) has returned from a Middle Eastern fact finding trip which included visits to Israel and Syria. While visiting Israel, the congressional delegation consisting of Congressman Aderholt, Congressman Frank Wolf (VA-10) and Congressman Joe Pitts (PA-16), discussed that nation’s safety and security in the volatile region. During their stopover in Syria, the group reiterated the United State’s foreign policy position that Syria must end their support of terrorism and also stop foreign fighters from using Syria’s borders to enter Iraq and kill American soldiers and innocent Iraqis. “U.S. intelligence tells us that insurgents and foreign fighters have been crossing Syria’s border to enter Iraq and kill American troops and innocent Iraqis,” stated Congressman Aderholt. “Syria needs to know that America takes every loss of life to heart and feels very strongly that they must secure their borders from those who would attack American troops and Iraqi citizens. Terrorism of this or any other sort has no place in the world and Syria needs to get on board with that fact.” During their visit in Syria, Congressman Aderholt and the other members of the delegation met with government officials including President Bashar al-Assad and Syrian Foreign Minister Walid al-Mu’allim. In addition, they also met with businessmen, religious leaders and former political prisoner and current Syrian opposition leader Riad Seif. In their meetings they discussed Syria ending support for Hezbollah and Hamas, recognition of Israel’s right to exist in peace and security, and ceasing Syrian interference in Lebanon. “I, along with my colleagues, fully support the Administration’s long term strategy and decisions regarding Syria. My visit was in no way an attempt to make foreign policy or negotiate on behalf of the United States government. We made that very clear to Assad. I believe that all Americans including those in the 4th District want to see an end to Syria’s open border that places American soldiers in jeopardy as well as their support of terrorism,” said the Congressman. He continued, “I want that just as strongly as they do. The Administration has been very clear in that regard and I believe that we were successful in solidly backing their policies.” Congressman Aderholt concluded, “If this trip leads to one American soldier’s life being saved because of our message to Syria to close their border to terrorists, then the trip was worth it.”
02.16.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - The following statement was submitted to the Congressional Record from Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today in opposition to the Iraq resolution brought to the floor by House Democrats.House Concurrent Resolution 63, disapproving of the decision of the President announced on January 10, 2007, to deploy more than 20,000 additional United States combat troops to Iraq, passed the House this afternoon by a vote of 246 to 182.Congressman Aderholt voted against the resolution.“Today is a day that we will look back on and know that fundamental decisions regarding our nation’s history were made. The discussions that we are engaged in will go a long way in determining our future in the ongoing Global War on Terror and Iraq’s role in that fight. When this vote is cast on the non-binding, Democratic resolution, we will be sending a message to the world. The only question remaining is what message will we send?Will we say that America remains steadfast against the rising tide of hate and intolerance offered by militant Islamists? Will we say that we don’t have the stomach to finish the fight against terrorists who actively seek to kill us and destroy our way of life?The war in Iraq has become such a flashpoint that we struggle to separate the politics of the situation from the reality. The politics attacks the intelligence that led us to war, questions our nation’s elected leadership, and condemns the decisions made along the way. It leads to the resolution that we now have before us. The reality recognizes that we are at war now and our troops are putting their lives on the line each and every day. It says that if this is a fight that we believe in, a fight against global terrorism, we must do everything possible to support the men and women who are carrying it out on our behalf and never giving a hint to the contrary.Unfortunately we are at a point today where some have forgotten exactly who and what we are fighting. Prior to 9/11, we failed to understand the hate of people like Osama bin Laden and what could result from it despite all evidence to the contrary. • In 1979, 66 American diplomats were held hostage in Iran for 444 days. • In 1983, 241 Marines were killed in Beirut when their barracks was attacked.• Militant Islamic terrorists bombed the World Trade Center in 1993. • 225 people were killed in attacks on U.S. embassies in Tanzania and Kenya in 1998. • And, in 2000, 17 American sailors were killed when Al-Qaeda attacked the U.S.S. Cole.Today we are at a historic crossroads: we either boldly tackle the issue of militant Islam that exists on the Iraqi front and is part of this world-wide struggle, applying the lessons we have learned from the years leading up to 9/11, or we approach the issue as we naively demonstrated before 9/11 and expect more attacks and more American deaths.The war in Iraq has gone on longer than any of us would have wished. We’ve seen too many funerals for too many sons and daughters, husbands and wives. To all those who have lost a friend or loved one, our hearts go out to you.It should be noted that mistakes have been made, of that there can be no doubt. We must know without question what led us to this point, and that time will come. But now is not that time. Not while we still have American service men and women in harm’s way. History will play its part, teaching us our mistakes and urging us not to repeat them. But we don’t have the luxury of waiting on history to pass its judgment. Without resolve, it is certain we will fail in Iraq and there will be far-reaching consequences for our nation, the region and ultimately the world. Since September 11, there have been major terrorist attacks in Karachi, Bali, Moscow, Casablanca, Riyadh, Istanbul, Madrid, London and Amman. If we allow the terrorists present in Iraq to win, we can expect more of the same. We can expect to see another Afghanistan – a puppet government established to support and back the aims of their terrorist masters. This is totally unacceptable.Victory in Iraq is our only option. It is the only path through which we can hope for peace. Without victory, our terrorist enemies gain confidence in their opposition to the United States and their ability to defeat us militarily. We embolden them and offer them the opportunity to further their attacks against American men, women and children. The resolution that we are debating will send a message to the world. What will that message be? My fervent hope and prayer is that it will be a message of resolve, a message of strength, a message of victory. Now is the time to support our troops in the field unequivocally and vote against this non-binding resolution. We don’t want anyone to construe our action here today as not fully supporting our men and women who serve us in Iraq.”
01.12.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Robert Aderholt today announced that he has been reappointed to the House Appropriations Committee for the 110th Congress. He will serve on three Appropriations Subcommittees: Homeland Security; Transportation; and, Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies. The House Appropriations Committee is responsible for funding all non-entitlement federal programs and departments. “I’m pleased that I’m going to be able to continue my work on the Appropriations Committee,” Congressman Aderholt said. “It’s important that Congress enforce fiscal discipline on government spending and yet at the same time work for Alabama and the 4th Congressional District. Certainly a seat on the Appropriations Committee affords me an excellent opportunity to do just that.” Congressman Aderholt has served on the Appropriations Committee since he was first elected to office. During that time he has consistently supported programs vital to North Alabama’s continued growth and well-being such as transportation funding and other infrastructure investments. “Although Congress has undergone some changes, my commitment to the people of Alabama and the 4th District has not,” continued Congressman Aderholt. “My top priority remains leveraging the resources of the federal government to create good, high paying jobs while encouraging the growth of local communities. I’m also pleased to be given a seat on the Homeland Security subcommittee panel. The issue of Homeland Security is one of the most important issues facing our nation at this time.” Congressman Aderholt concluded, “The people of the 4th Congressional district work hard to provide for their families. Every action I take in Congress, from fighting for our traditional Alabama values to protecting such vital programs as Social Security, is meant to support that fact. I look forward to continuing my work during the appropriations process and supporting efforts within the 4th District and the State of Alabama for the next two years.”
12.13.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) announced today that $270,459 has been awarded to the 4th Congressional District by the Emergency Food and Shelter (EFS) Program. The following counties within the 4th Congressional District represented by Congressman Aderholt are receiving funds: Blount ($15,907); Cullman ($26,898); DeKalb ($26,318); Etowah ($38,704); Franklin ($12,816); Marion ($10,798); Marshall ($28,765); Morgan ($44,930); Pickens ($7,857); St. Clair ($21,810); Walker ($26,168); and Winston ($9,488). Additional jurisdictions in the 4th District may be selected at a later date by the EFS State Set-Aside Committee. The EFS National Board, chaired by the Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and composed of representatives from American Red Cross; Catholic Charities, USA; United Jewish Communities; National Council of the Churches of Christ in the U.S.A.; The Salvation Army; and United Way of America, provides supplemental funding to shelters, soup kitchens, and food banks. One-month awards for rent, mortgage, and utility assistance are also available. The funds are used to help individuals and families with non-disaster, temporary emergency needs. Congressman Aderholt stated, “During this holiday season, I’m pleased to see that the communities in the 4th District will have funding available to help those in need.” In each funded jurisdiction, a Local Board advertises the availability of the funds, establishes local priorities, selects local non-profit and government agencies to receive supplemental funding, and monitors program compliance. The Local Board’s composition mirrors the EFS Program National Board, with a local government official replacing FEMA and board members voting to select their chair. The EFS Program has been in existence since 1983 and was authorized under the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act of 1987. The EFS Program has distributed more than $2.952 billion to communities nationwide, and has accounted for millions of additional meals and nights of shelter to the hungry and homeless most in need across the nation.
12.07.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) yesterday voted in favor of the Unborn Child Pain Awareness Act of 2006, a bill he co-sponsored earlier this year. The bill received majority support in the House, but failed to pass under rules requiring two-thirds support for passage. The final vote was 250-162. H.R. 6099, The Unborn Child Pain Awareness Act, would require abortion providers to notify women who want to have an abortion 20 weeks after fertilization that the evidence suggests their unborn child feels pain and they may request anesthesia for their unborn child in order to reduce or eliminate the pain. This legislation would not require anesthesia and it specifically protects the doctor's right to inform the woman of any risks to her according to his or her own best medical judgment. Said Congressman Aderholt, “The decision to abort a child has far reaching consequences that I believe the mother should be made aware of before undergoing such a procedure. This bill would take another step in helping them to understand what they are actually doing to their unborn child and the pain that it will cause.” Studies show that fetuses respond to touch by 8 weeks gestation and respond to sound by 20 weeks. Testimony was offered to Congress that nerve endings in a developing child spread to all parts of the skin and tissue by the 20th week. Further, there is a large body of anatomical, behavioral and physiological evidence that unborn children can experience pain by 20 weeks, if not before. “Women have the right to know the facts about the medical development of unborn children,” continued Congressman Aderholt. “They need to know that they have the option to minimize or eliminate the pain an unborn child would feel during an abortion. I’m disappointed by yesterday’s vote and hope that this bill will be re-introduced in the 110th Congress and passed then.”
