03.08.2019	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the passage of H.R. 1, the For the People Act: “The For the People Act is one of the most sweeping reform packages to pass the House of Representatives in the past half century. H.R.1 will return the American political system to the people by ensuring that every eligible American can cast a ballot, while pushing back against the corrupting influence of big money in politics. “For too long, our country has lurched increasingly towards the interests of the privileged and the powerful. “Today is a historic day, and I was proud to cast my vote in favor of this bill. We must continue to prioritize reforms that strengthen our democracy, so that all voices can be heard.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Vice-Chairman of the House Rules Committee, Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.07.2019	Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), Lois Frankel (D-FL) and Ted Deutch (D-FL) released the following joint statement after ex-police officer Nouman Raja was found guilty of manslaughter and attempted murder in the fatal shooting of Corey Jones, who was shot and killed during the early hours of October 18, 2015: “Today’s ruling has delivered justice to the family of Corey Jones. While nothing will bring Corey back, we hope that this decision brings comfort to his family and friends in knowing that justice has been served. The tragic shooting that led to Corey’s death shook our community and broke our hearts. As we continue to heal, we must work together to ensure that every community across our nation takes the necessary steps to prevent tragedies like this from happening in the future.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Vice-Chairman of the House Rules Committee, Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.06.2019	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) introduced the Outpatient Mental Health Modernization Act of 2019, legislation that would require Medicare to reimburse Partial Hospitalization Programs (PHPs) for providing transportation, food, nutritional services and vocational counseling to psychiatric patients. Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors include Representatives Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX) and Debbie Dingell (D-MI). (Please find attached a copy of the bill): “Ensuring access to high quality healthcare for all is a top priority,” said Hastings. “The growing role of mental health PHPs in our healthcare system requires that we amend the law to assist PHPs in delivering the services, care and support to those who are living with severe and chronic mental illness. I am proud to introduce this bill to provide the necessary update to our healthcare safety net and ensure more equitable, affordable access to healthcare for our communities.” BILL SUMMARY: PHPs provide a structured and clinically intensive alternative to hospitalization for patients who otherwise might require sustained inpatient psychiatric hospitalization. PHP psychiatric patients typically receive four to six hours of treatment per day, five to six days a week in hospital-based settings and community mental health centers. However, Medicare does not cover the costs of nutritional planning, meals or transportation. Currently, PHP facilities are responsible for the full cost of providing food and transportation for the patient. The Outpatient Mental Health Modernization Act of 2019 requires Medicare to reimburse PHPs for providing transportation, food, nutritional services, and vocational counseling to psychiatric patients. The provision of vocational counseling provides a critical lifeline for patients to get back on their feet during and after recovery. The bill also establishes a Behavioral Health Advisory Committee in which a diverse group of behavioral health stakeholders would examine and provide recommendations on how to address the persisting challenges of access, stigma, quality and operability in the mental health delivery system. The bill is being supported by the National Association for Behavioral Health (NABH). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Vice-Chairman of the House Rules Committee, Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.06.2019	Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Ted Deutch (D-FL) released the following joint statement after the House of Representatives adopted their amendment #4 to H.R.1, the For the People Act of 2019 (Please find attached a copy of the amendment): “Access to the ballot box is fundamental to the health of our democracy and must be protected. We were pleased to offer today’s amendment to H.R.1, the For the People Act of 2019. Our amendment will ensure accountability and transparency to protect the voices of voters who choose to vote by mail in Federal elections by requiring states to report on how many ballots were invalidated on grounds of signature mismatch, as well as other important information. We must ensure that elections are free, fair, and unobstructed so that every vote is counted and every voice heard.” BACKGROUND: Hastings/Deutch Amendment #4 requires states to submit a report to Congress not later than 120 days after the end of a Federal election cycle regarding the number of ballots invalidated by signature mismatch, the attempts to contact voters to provide notice, and the cure process and results. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Vice-Chairman of the House Rules Committee, Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.04.2019	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking Women’s History Month: “Women’s History Month was first designated by Congress in 1987 to recognize the numerous struggles, contributions, and triumphs of women throughout the history of our nation. This past November, we ushered in one of the most diverse Democratic Caucuses, notably including a record number of women legislators in recent history. “We must acknowledge that many challenges for gender parity still remain, including paycheck fairness, paid family and medical leave, affordable access to high quality childcare, healthcare equality, and better retirement security. Republican attacks on women’s healthcare persist to this day in their actions to cut off access to reproductive rights, criminalize abortion, and undermine the Affordable Care Act, which protects 67 million women and girls with pre-existing conditions. The U.S. is also facing an epidemic of preventable maternal deaths, which disproportionately affect women of color. It has been over half a century since the Equal Pay Act was enacted. And yet, women still earn only 80 cents for every dollar earned by men, and for women of color, the amount is even less. “I remain committed to proudly supporting legislation critical to eliminating gender-based discrimination and expanding gender equality, including the Paycheck Fairness Act, which seeks to ensure equal pay for equal work. As we celebrate Women’s History Month, let us recommit ourselves to all causes that protect and strengthen women's rights.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Vice-Chairman of the House Rules Committee, Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.28.2019	Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), Brian Mast (R-FL), Lois Frankel (D-FL), and Ted Deutch (D-FL) released the following joint statement on the shooting that took place at the VA Medical Center in Riviera Beach yesterday evening, which injured one person: “We are sending our heartfelt thoughts and prayers to the victim who was injured and all those affected by last night’s shooting at the VA Medical Center in Riviera Beach. “One VA doctor sustained injuries and is now in stable condition. No one else was harmed and the suspected shooter is now in custody. We have been assured that the VA is taking the necessary steps to enhance security at the Medical Center and that FBI is on the scene leading the investigation. “As Members of Congress representing Palm Beach County, we stand ready and willing to do all that we can to ensure the safety of our community, so that veterans can safely access services at the West Palm Beach VA.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Vice-Chairman of the House Rules Committee, Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.27.2019	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the passage of H.R. 8, the Bipartisan Background Checks Act of 2019: “By passing the Bipartisan Background Checks of 2019, House Democrats took action today to help make communities across our nation safer. If enacted, this measure will close the loophole that allows unlicensed gun sellers to bypass a background check, ensuring that individuals prohibited from owning firearms are unable to obtain them. After years of inaction by House Republicans, I was proud to vote in favor of this critical bill. Americans are demanding action to address our country’s gun violence epidemic. It is imperative that we continue to do all that we can to end gun violence, because one life lost to gun violence is one too many. It is now time that the Senate take action.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Vice-Chairman of the House Rules Committee, Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.25.2019	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) reintroduced the Restoring the Partnership for County Health Care Costs Act of 2019, which would prohibit the federal government from stripping pre-trial individuals in county jails of their Medicare, Medicaid, CHIP, and SSI benefits, before an inmate has been convicted of a crime. Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors of the bill are (8): Reps. Gwen Moore (WI-04), Charlie Crist (FL-13), Wm. Lacy Clay (MO-01), Raul M. Grijalva (AZ-03), Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30), Andre Carson (IN-07), Bennie G. Thompson (MS-02), and Susan Wild (PA-07). (Please find attached a copy of the legislation): “The U.S. Supreme Court’s interpretation of the Constitution’s 8th Amendment requires government entities to provide medical care to all inmates. With current law allowing the federal government to cut off important safety net resources, local governments are burdened with the expense of providing health care to thousands of men, women, and juveniles currently awaiting trial, while also trying to manage widespread budget deficits and cuts to essential services. “We must remember that although these inmates are incarcerated, some for over a year, they are innocent until proven guilty and the termination of their benefits could very well undermine this cardinal presumption. Moreover, the denial of benefits disproportionately affects low-income and minority populations, as they are oftentimes unable to post bond, which would enable them to continue receiving benefits. “There is no question that the denial of access to fundamental programs and the erosion of the presumption of innocence are an affront to our sense of justice and our stated commitment to the rule of law.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Vice Chairman of the House Rules Committee, Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.21.2019	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after introducing a resolution supporting the concurrent-track approach to the Middle East Peace Process. Joining Hastings in introducing the resolution were House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Eliot Engel (D-NY) and Representatives David Schweikert (R-AZ) and Rob Woodall (R-GA). (Please find attached a copy of the resolution): “The Israeli-Palestinian conflict presents an immensely difficult challenge that has no easy answers. Despite the lack of progress on a formal peace agreement, Israel and some of her Arab neighbors have worked quietly and behind the scenes to improve bilateral relations in recent years. Recent signals from Arab nations, including Oman, Bahrain, and the United Arab Emirates, underscore the opportunities that exist to improve security, stability, and prosperity in the Middle East. The concurrent-track approach, where Arab and Muslim-majority states work to improve their bilateral relations with Israel as Israel and the Palestinian Authority work concurrently to advance the Israeli-Palestinian peace process, can help establish a new paradigm for the region. I thank my colleagues for introducing this bipartisan resolution with me and urge its timely consideration by the House,” said Congressman Alcee L. Hastings. "The United States has every interest in helping our ally, Israel, find new opportunities for cooperation and peace with all of its neighbors. I welcome the recent advances of Oman and recent statements from Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates about Israel. These are critical steps toward a more secure Middle East. This resolution makes an important statement about Congressional expectations for establishing peace in the Middle East, and I applaud Mr. Hastings and Mr. Schweikert for their leadership on this issue,” said Congressman Eliot Engel. “I am pleased to see this resolution re-introduced. As a steadfast supporter of Israel, the only democracy in the Middle East and one of America’s strongest allies, it is important to support peace in the region. The Administration has long pushed for Arab states in the region to improve relations with Israel, which is something we should continue to encourage,” said Congressman David Schweikert. “There is no question in my mind that the conflict between Israel and the Palestinian people will only be solved when both sides are able to come together and agree on a peaceful, two-state solution. With the unwavering support of the United States and peace-loving countries in the region and around the world, I hope that we can help provide Israel and the Palestinian Authority the opportunity to seize that two-state solution,” said Congressman Rob Woodall. “I am so proud to join my good friend Mr. Hastings in being an original co-sponsor of this resolution. Our long partnership working together on this issue is testament to how important resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is and how it transcends traditional partisan lines.” About the Resolution: H.Res.138 reaffirms support for a two-state solution negotiated between the State of Israel and the Palestinian Authority and urges the Palestinian Authority and regional Arab and Muslim-majority states to engage in negotiations with the State of Israel to advance the Israeli-Palestinian peace process and support the normalization of bilateral relations. The resolution commends the State of Israel's ongoing efforts to improve relations with Arab and Muslim-majority states in the region and those Arab and Muslim-majority states that have taken steps to improve bilateral relations with Israel. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Vice-Chairman of the House Rules Committee, Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.21.2019	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letter to the Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), Mark Green, requesting a review of the Agency’s efforts to provide critical humanitarian aid to the people of Venezuela. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter): February 21, 2019 The Honorable Mark Green Administrator U.S. Agency for International Development Ronald Reagan Building, Suite 610 1300 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20523-6100 Dear Administrator Green: As you know, the humanitarian crisis in Venezuela grows more fraught by the hour. Indeed, even before the most recent political and humanitarian turmoil of this year, Venezuelans were already facing stark shortages of food and medicine. A lack of access to social services has only exacerbated the situation. There is no doubt that the Venezuelan people deserve new leadership and aid in addressing the ongoing humanitarian crisis now occurring in the country, as well as assistance once they are able to start the work of rebuilding their country into the heralded nation it once was. To that end, I acknowledge your recent efforts, along with those of the Department of Defense, to ensure that the aid the United States is providing to the Venezuelan people is staged in the most strategically sound way so as to be ready for its disbursement to the Venezuelan people. The critical supplies now at the Columbia-Venezuela border include supplemental food to assist malnourished infants, medical supplies, high protein supplements, and hygiene kits. These supplies sit idle as we quickly approach President Trump’s February 23, 2019 deadline for Venezuela’s illegitimate president, Nicolas Maduro, to allow these supplies to cross into Venezuela so that they may be distributed to the Venezuelan people who are so desperately in need of their palliative effects. Finally, Mr. Maduro, and his illegitimate Vice President, Delcy Rodriguez, have, and continue to, engage in a grotesque disinformation campaign erroneously claiming that the aid the United States is providing is cover for a U.S. military operation and that the supplies are contaminated, poisoned, and carcinogenic. Given the above, I respectfully ask for answers to the following questions: • Does USAID have a contingency plan(s) for distributing the aid at the Columbia-Venezuela border should the February 23, 2019 pass? • What steps are currently being taken to ensure that U.S. aid now waiting at the Columbia-Venezuela border is protected from bad actors? • What ability, if any, does the USAID currently have to monitor humanitarian developments inside Venezuela should Mr. Maduro refuse to allow the United States’ critical aid to reach the Venezuelan people? • What steps is USAID taking to counter the Maduro regime’s disinformation campaign concerning the quality of U.S. aid? I thank you for your attention to these questions and look forward to your prompt reply. Should you have any questions, please feel free to contact my office at (202) 225-1313. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Vice-Chairman of the House Rules Committee, Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.20.2019	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after being appointed by House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn (D-SC) to serve as a Senior Whip during the 116th Congress: “I am honored for the opportunity to serve as Senior Whip for one of the most diverse and exciting Democratic Caucuses in history,” said Congressman Hastings. “I will work tirelessly with my good friend and colleague, Majority Whip James Clyburn, to create and advance a powerful legislative agenda that amplifies the voices of South Florida and our nation. The Leadership’s role is to unite the Democratic Caucus under a shared vision which honors America’s diversity and values. I look forward to joining this historic and effective Leadership team, and working with my colleagues in Congress, to deliver the reforms the American people voted for when they elected a Democratic Majority in the House of Representatives.” “I’m pleased that Congressman Hastings will be joining my Whip team as Senior Whip for the 116th Congress,” said Majority Whip James E. Clyburn. “Congressman Hastings is a well-respected consensus builder who has deep relationships within the Democratic Caucus. He will play a key role in ensuring that every voice of the most diverse Caucus ever is heard. As we begin to advance an agenda that will have a positive impact on Americans’ everyday lives, Congressman Hastings will be an invaluable member of the Whip team helping us secure the necessary votes to pass critical pieces of legislation.” BACKGROUND: Senior Whips are a group of seasoned Members and Caucus opinion leaders who meet on an ongoing basis to discuss some of the key issues facing Congress. Senior Whips bring a balanced and diverse perspective to the Whip Operation, which is necessary to tackle some of the more complex pieces of legislation that will be put forward in the 116th Congress. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Vice-Chairman of the House Rules Committee, Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.15.2019	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement following President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency: “President Trump’s decision to declare a national emergency over a fake crisis represents an alarmingly gross misuse of power and taxpayer dollars, and is in clear violation of the law. “The rationale for a southern border wall over other proven, effective, border security is entirely absent. Illegal immigration is at a record low and any drugs that make it across the border usually come through legal ports of entry. It is gravely concerning that the President has come to this decision based not on sound policy, but rather on a temper tantrum after his failed attempt to fund an inefficient, wasteful border wall, for which he shut down the government for over a month. “President Trump admitted that the border wall he failed to fund during his first two years in office has suddenly turned into a “national emergency” because of his own presidential campaign and the influence of Conservative media pundits. Congress entrusted the President with the authority to reallocate funds during urgent and unforeseen situations, not two-year old campaign promises and fabricated crises. Congress will exercise its legal authority and check the President’s subversion of the separation of powers and the rule of law to uphold our Constitution.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Vice-Chairman of the House Rules Committee, Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.14.2019	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking one year since the mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, which left 17 people dead and 17 injured: “One year after this tragedy, it is still difficult to put into words the feelings of sadness, heartbreak, and loss. On this solemn anniversary, I stand in solidarity with those who lost loved ones, the injured, and the countless families impacted by this senseless act of violence. “The Parkland community has faced unspeakable tragedy. Yet through their grief, they came together with strength and resolve, lifting each other and beginning the long process of healing together. I am awe-inspired by the students who turned their anguish into one of the most compelling student-led movements in American history, honoring those who were lost with action and shaping the next chapter on addressing gun violence in America. “Tragically, our nation continues to face a gun violence epidemic in communities across the country. There were 24 school shooting incidents last year alone, while nearly 40,000 Americans lost their lives to firearms. “Last night, for the first time in years, the House Judiciary Committee passed H.R.8, the Bipartisan Background Checks Act of 2019, which is now headed to the House floor. It is incumbent upon all of us to demand change, and this is what change looks like. “On this day of reflection, I pledge to do whatever I can to support commonsense reforms that will save lives and make our country a safer place for all.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Vice-Chairman of the House Rules Committee, Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.12.2019	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after he joined Representatives Ted Deutch (D-FL), Diana DeGette (D-CO), and Dina Titus (D-NV) as an original co-sponsor in reintroducing the Keep Americans Safe Act, legislation that will prohibit the transfer, importation, or possession of magazines able to hold more than 10 rounds of ammunition. A Senate companion was also introduced by Senator Bob Menendez (D-NJ): “I was pleased to join my colleagues in introducing the Keep Americans Safe Act, just two days ahead of the first anniversary of the of the horrific mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. Our nation is facing a gun violence epidemic. Each year, over 120,000 Americans become victims of gun violence. Every day, an average of 34 Americans are murdered with a firearm. In 2018, there was an average of one school shooting incident every seven and a half school days. The shameful reality of our country’s situation is unlike that of any other developed nation. “The Keep Americans Safe Act presents commonsense solutions that will limit the ammunition capacity of magazines, thus decreasing the scope of gun violence tragedies. Large capacity magazines were meant for war zones, but were used in Las Vegas, where 59 people were killed; in Sandy Hook, where 20 children and 6 adults were killed; in Aurora, where 12 people were killed; and at Fort Hood, where 13 people were killed. Large capacity magazines turn firearms into weapons of war, which have no place in our communities today. “Our nation’s inability to act on a commonsense solution to end gun violence is shameful. For far too long, this country has been plagued with the scourge of preventable violence, which tears apart families and destroys communities. I will continue to fight for legislation that brings us closer to ending gun violence in this country.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Vice-Chairman of the House Rules Committee, Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Dean and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.11.2019	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the passing of Congressman Walter B. Jones: “It was with great sadness that I learned of the passing of my friend and colleague, Congressman Walter B. Jones. We have lost a great man who was dedicated to serving the people of Eastern North Carolina with integrity, kindness, and compassion. “Walter had a distinguished record of proudly serving this country for over three decades, both as a Member of the North Carolina State Legislature and as a Member of Congress. He will be remembered for working across the aisle and tirelessly giving voice to military servicemembers, veterans, and caregivers. “My thoughts and prayers go out to his wife Joe Anne, his daughter Ashley, and his entire family. Our nation grieves with them for the loss of such a respected man and talented legislator.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.11.2019	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letter to Prime Minister Theresa May, urging the support an amendment to the United Kingdom’s Agriculture bill, which would ban the dog meat trade. Joining Hastings in sending the letter were Representatives Vern Buchanan (R-FL), Theodore Deutch (D-FL), and Lee Zeldin (R-NY). (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter): February 11, 2019 The Rt Hon Theresa May, MP Prime Minister Office of the Prime Minister 10 Downing Street London SW1A 2AA Dear Prime Minster May: In December, the U.S. House of Representatives took the lead on passing legislation that was signed into law banning the slaughter, consumption, and trade of dog and cat meat. The adoption of this important legislation not only sent a message to people in the United States, but also, those around the world, putting all who engage in this heinous practice on notice that it will no longer be tolerated regardless of where it is found to occur. We understand that MP Giles Watling for Clacton has proposed an amendment to the United Kingdom’s Agriculture bill, which would ban the dog meat trade. As supporters of the ban recently passed here in the U.S., we sincerely hope that you will support this effort. The slaughter of dogs does not prevent hunger or improve human welfare, nor is there any economic justification to continue this horrific and barbaric practice. While we would not presume to dictate to your government what policies it should enact, we are sure you would agree that this practice needs to be stopped in the United Kingdom, as well as worldwide. Our alliance is a partnership of the heart, bound by the history, traditions and values we share. We need to be united in imposing a ban against the dog meat trade. As Winston Churchill once said, “our victories on the battlefield proved what can be achieved by British and Americans working together heart and hand." We have, and can, change the world for the better when we join forces together. We thank you for your time and consideration, and look forward to your response. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Vern Buchanan Member of Congress Theodore Deutch Member of Congress Lee Zeldin Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Vice-Chairman of the House Rules Committee, Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.08.2019	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the passing of former House Energy and Commerce Chairman John Dingell, Jr. of Michigan, who was the longest serving Member of Congress in history: “When I first came to Congress in 1993, Congressman John Dingell had already been serving the people of Michigan for 38 years. His illustrious career in Congress spanned 59 years, from the Eisenhower Administration to the Obama Administration, as the longest serving Member of Congress in American history. “During the era of the New Deal, John helped usher in a new era of American prosperity, securing landmark victories promoting clean air and water, civil rights, safer food, protections for endangered species and the American automobile industry, and, perhaps dearest to his heart, healthcare reform. Chairman Dingell spent his entire career in pursuit of a more equitable, affordable, and comprehensive healthcare system, and it was his visionary leadership that helped to make this dream a reality for so many. He was one of the best legislators I ever had the privilege to serve with, and I was lucky to have benefited from his friendship for so many years. “The world and our country have lost a dear friend to so many. When legends pass, their great deeds live on. John Dingell is dead, long live John Dingell. “I offer my deepest condolences to John’s beloved wife, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell, and the entire Dingell family. Chairman Dingell was a remarkable man, and his legacy will no doubt live on for generations to come.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Vice-Chairman of the House Rules Committee, Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.08.2019	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the passing of Frank Robinson: “I was deeply saddened to hear of the passing of the legendary Frank Robinson. As a Hall of Fame outfielder, Robinson made history as a record-breaking athlete in Major League Baseball (MLB). Overcoming the color barrier, he propelled forward a powerful legacy of excellence and accomplishment in the Black community as the first black manager in Major League Baseball history. “It would be an impossible task to pinpoint the greatest moment in Robinson’s incredible career. Among the many honors and awards he earned, he was recognized as the Most Valuable Player in both the National and American Leagues, inducted into the National Baseball Hall of Fame in his first year of eligibility, and received the Presidential Medal of Freedom. “Robinson was, and will continue to be, an inspirational role model for all ballplayers, but perhaps most especially for minority players. His legacy has paved the way for people like Alex Cora who this past season became the first Puerto Rican manager to win the World Series when he led the Boston Red Sox to yet another championship win – a win celebrated by people of Puerto Rican descent in my District and throughout the country. There is no doubt in my mind that young managers like Mr. Cora, and many others in professional baseball, whether on the field or in the front office, stand on the shoulders of legends like Frank Robinson. “I send my most sincere condolences to the Robinson family during this time of great loss and mourning. Frank Robinson’s contributions to Major League baseball and our nation will forever be ingrained in American history.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as the Vice Chairman of the House Rules Committee, Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Dean and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.07.2019	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement recognizing the 19th Annual National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day: “Today marks the nineteenth anniversary of the National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day, which highlights the importance of educating our nation about the disproportionate impact that HIV/AIDS has on the African American community. This day is an important opportunity to not only spread awareness about this alarming health disparity and the lack of accessible healthcare that perpetuates it, but also to promote crucial preventative measures such as getting tested regularly, knowing your status, and seeking treatment. “HIV/AIDS affects African Americans more than any other racial or ethnic group in the United States. Out of the 1.1 million people living with HIV/AIDS, over 470,000 of these people are African-American. In 2016, roughly 43 percent of new HIV/AIDS diagnoses were reportedly given to African Americans, far surpassing rates of transmission among other racial populations in the United States. “A culmination of many barriers - including disproportionately low access to affordable healthcare, higher rates of poverty and incarceration, and the stigma of seeking treatment - drive this health disparity. Although much progress has been made in understanding this disease and improving medical treatment, there is still much work to do to reduce the disproportionate impact that HIV/AIDS has on our Black communities. “I remain committed to working with patients, advocates, researchers, healthcare providers, community leaders, and my colleagues in Congress to support the HIV/AIDS research, prevention and treatment effort and fight to end this health disparity within the Black community.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Vice-Chairman of the House Rules Committee, Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.06.2019	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement after the Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi, appointed him to chair the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe, also known as the Helsinki Commission, during the 116th Congress: “For more than four decades, the Helsinki Commission has championed human rights and democracy across North America, Europe, and Central Asia. While we have worked to keep these concerns on the U.S. agenda, much remains to be accomplished. Rogue actors are challenging the integrity of elections at home and abroad; Russia’s internal repression threatens its citizens while its external aggression imperils its neighbors; and members of vulnerable communities are targets of bigotry, discrimination, and violence. All of these challenges undermine comprehensive security in the region and place our societies at risk. “I’m honored to once again chair the Helsinki Commission, and look forward to continuing the bipartisan, bicameral cooperation that is vital to promoting human rights, military security, and economic cooperation in the 57 countries that make up the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe.” BACKGROUND: Chairman Hastings has served on the Helsinki Commission since 2001, and in 2007, he became the first African American to chair the commission. Hastings is also the only American to have ever served as President of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe’s Parliamentary Assembly (OSCE PA), and is the former Special Representative on Mediterranean Affairs of the Parliamentary Assembly. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Vice-Chairman of the House Rules Committee, Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.05.2019	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on President Trump’s 2nd State of the Union Address: “Tonight’s address was nothing more than a side-show. Following two years of divisive and incompetent leadership, the President’s call for bipartisanship and unity rang profoundly hollow. If President Trump truly wants to embrace bipartisanship, he first needs to understand that the Democratic House of Representatives is not going to let him walk all over them and the American people the way that Republicans have for the past two years. The President cannot call for unity while simultaneously considering sidestepping Congress on his border-wall pet project or threatening another wasteful shutdown. The President’s record of dishonesty is plain as day, and Democrats will not simply take him at his word. “We are two years into this Administration and the President has failed hardworking and working poor Americans. While trying to claim credit for our improving economy, President Trump seems determined to undermine our nation’s economic growth at every opportunity. Ignoring this country’s urgent need for affordable healthcare, the President has sought to destroy protections for every American with a pre-existing condition, weakened the health insurance marketplace, driven up Americans’ healthcare costs, and caused a surge in our uninsured rate as a result. The President has also rolled back protections against Wall Street’s fraud and abuse. Following massive tax giveaways to the wealthiest one percent and large corporations, including those that have shipped jobs overseas, our country is once again on a path towards trillion-dollar-plus deficits. “I was also disappointed, though not surprised, that the President once again missed the opportunity to commit to acting on gun violence. The President can give his thoughts, prayers, and kind words to the victims of gun violence, but until action is taken, our country will continue to suffer. More than 40,000 Americans were killed in shootings in 2017, the highest rate in more than 20 years. In 2018, we endured a school shooting nearly once a week. There is no need to parse words here. The President needs to show the American people that he is serious about addressing the very real problems cities across America are confronted with, and he should start by supporting commonsense gun control reforms. “Over the past two years, our nation has faced many challenges under the Trump Administration, from the delegitimization of the American news media, to the wasteful and unnecessary government shutdown, to the abdication of American leadership across the globe. One evening of faux-bipartisanship does not erase these and other failures of leadership. Tomorrow, the U.S. House of Representatives will get back to work making our country a stronger, more inclusive place for all. I urge the President and his Republican colleagues to join us.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Vice-Chairman of the House Rules Committee, Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.01.2019	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking the beginning of Black History Month: “Black History Month is a time to celebrate the past, present, and future of black culture in America. During this month-long celebration, we recognize the innumerable contributions to our country made by African Americans and reflect on what we must do to ensure that our communities are given equal opportunities to succeed. “African American culture has been inextricably linked to American history since the earliest days in our nation’s history. Through long periods of injustice, oppression, and persecution, black culture thrived and our people remained resilient. In overcoming persistent forces of discrimination and prejudice, African Americans helped shape our country’s culture, history, and society. This month, we celebrate their achievements and look towards the future. “As we pay tribute to African American leaders throughout the generations, let us work together to address enduring challenges facing our communities. Disparities in education, employment, and justice are still prevalent, and our hard-won achievements are at risk. These issues effect all Americans, and we must work together to address them. “This month, let us each celebrate Black History Month by rededicating ourselves to the fight for equality for all Americans.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Vice-Chairman of the House Rules Committee, Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.30.2019	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after the introduction of the Paycheck Fairness Act: “Today, I am proud to join Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) and Democratic Members of Congress to introduce the Paycheck Fairness Act. It’s been over half a century since the Equal Pay Act was enacted, yet women still earn only 80 cents for every dollar earned by men. For women of color, the amount is even less. Although women make up half of the American workforce, they earn 20 percent less than their male counterparts. All workers, regardless of age, gender, race, religion, or disability should be paid equally based on their work. “The Paycheck Fairness Act will move our country closer to closing the gender wage gap, which causes every woman an estimated loss of $418,800 in earnings over her lifetime. This important legislation will close loopholes in the 1963 Equal Pay Act, strengthen penalties against employers who violate the law, and require employers to prove that wage disparities among employees are not due to gender. “I am proud to have long championed the Paycheck Fairness Act and effective policies to level the playing field in the American workforce during my tenure in Congress. In the 116th Congress, I will continue to fight for legislation that mandates paycheck fairness, invests in employment opportunities for women, supports fair maternity and family leave policies and raises the minimum wage. Together, we can end this form of discrimination and ensure that all Americans earn equal pay for equal work.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Vice-Chairman of the House Rules Committee, Chairman-designate of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.29.2019	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement recognizing the 10th Anniversary of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act: “The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act was signed into law ten years ago today. I was proud to vote for this landmark legislation to enable women to more easily challenge unequal pay and encouraged employers to implement fair payment practices. Women play a critical role in our economy, so Congress must do more to close the gender wage-gap and bring an end to employer discrimination once and for all. “This bill was the first signed into law by President Barack Obama in 2009. Since then, Democrats in Congress have remained committed to achieving paycheck equity. Women, on average, still receive only $0.80 cents on the dollar compared to men, with women of color receiving even less. “As we mark the 10th Anniversary of this important legislation, let us renew our efforts to eliminate discrimination against women both inside and outside of the workplace. I remain committed to enacting legislation that mandates paycheck fairness and increases penalties for employers who discriminate based on an employee’s sex. Tolerating anything less than equal pay for equal work is unacceptable.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as the Vice Chairman of the House Rules Committee, Chairman-designate of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Dean and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.29.2019	Today, Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Rob Woodall (R-GA) introduced the Civics Learning Act of 2019, bipartisan legislation that increases funding for innovative and evidence-based civics education programs serving K-12 students and teachers, as well as empowering local schools to develop a curriculum tailored to their needs. Joining Hastings and Woodall as original co-sponsors include: Reps. Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Al Green (D-TX), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ilhan Omar (D-MN), Frederica Wilson (D-FL), Darren Soto (D-FL), Josh Harder (D-CA), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.-At-Large), Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), Susan Wild (D-PA), Jahana Hayes (D-CT), and Yvette Clarke (D-NY) (Please find attached a copy of the bill): “Recommitting our nation to high quality civics education is vital,” said Congressman Hastings. “It’s shocking that, in 2018, only a third of Americans could name all three branches of government. This startling reality reveals that federal support for civics education programs must be renewed, both to strengthen our democracy and the future of our students. I am proud to introduce this measure with my friend and colleague, Rep. Woodall, to ensure that today’s students become the productive, knowledgeable and engaged citizens of tomorrow.” “It is our intention to ensure Georgia educators are best situated to continue delivering the best possible education to our students for years to come,” said Congressman Woodall. “This legislation strikes the right balance between strengthening our students’ understanding of civics while allowing our schools to adopt approaches that fit their individual needs.” Bill Summary The Civics Learning Act of 2019 authorizes $30,000,000 for innovative and evidence-based civics learning and teaching programs, including but not limited to hands-on civic engagement activities, online and video game-based learning, service learning, and activities that include participation in student governance and learning about the Constitution. Recognizing that most civics programs focus on high school teachers and students, this bill would ensure funding for elementary, middle, and high school programs in order to create a lasting foundation for civic knowledge. In addition, this bill would prioritize funding for high-need schools, underserved populations, and low-access areas such as rural or inner-city communities. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Vice-Chairman of the House Rules Committee, Chairman-designate of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Dean and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.27.2019	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking International Holocaust Remembrance Day: “Today, I join the international community in reflecting on the murder of six million Jews during one of the darkest periods in human history. Between 1940 and 1945, two out of every three Jews in Europe perished in ghettos, mass shootings, forced labor camps, and extermination camps under the Nazi Regime, forever changing the face of Europe and the world. “The world’s Jewish population has yet to recover to its numbers prior to the Holocaust, yet global Jewry has witnessed a resurgence. Today, the Jewish State of Israel thrives and Jewish life has strengthened. Yet, we must always remain vigilant against the forces of anti-Semitism, racism, and xenophobia, each of which have risen sharply in our country and across the globe. We must never allow hatred to go unchallenged, and it is incumbent upon all of us to stand with the Jewish community and others working to confront injustice. “As we mark an international day of remembrance, we must commit to supporting Holocaust education across the globe and ensure survivors in our nation, many of whom live at or below the poverty line, have access to the lifesaving services they rely on. As a representative of South Florida, which possesses one of the largest populations of Holocaust survivors in the world, I will continue to do everything I can to ensure this community may live with dignity.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as the Vice Chairman of the House Rules Committee, Chairman-designate of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Dean and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.25.2019	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the passing of veterans’ advocate and Broward County Democratic activist Jack Shifrel: "I was deeply saddened to learn of the passing of my dear friend and fellow advocate Jack Shifrel. Jack was one of the first people to endorse me for public office. He supported me in three losing causes and vigorously supported me in 1992 when I was elected to Congress. I am eternally grateful to my dear, dear friend. “For decades Jack was a tireless voice for our veterans, the Democratic Party, and for countless other causes close to his heart. Jack dedicated his life to serving our community and ensuring that his fellow veterans had access to the services they rightfully deserved. He was deeply committed to improving access to health services for veterans, and his advocacy helped make it safer and easier for veterans to access the VA Clinic in Sunrise, Florida. Among the many hats Jack wore was that of the President of the Broward Veterans Coalition, where the good work he did continues to positively affect the lives of those who have served our country. “He was also known for going out of his way to mentor the next generation of Democratic activists, and was always available for advice and counsel. As a leader in the Broward Democratic Party, he was a delegate to five Democratic national conventions and an outspoken advocate for equal rights and what he considered our collective responsibility to each other. “Jack was one of a kind and made our entire community a better place. His loss will be felt in Broward County for years to come. I extend my deepest condolences to Jack’s wife, Laurie, his children Darrin, David, and Jillian, his siblings Lori, Myke, and Scott, his grandchildren, and his entire family during this extremely difficult time.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as the Vice Chairman of the House Rules Committee, Chairman-designate of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Dean and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.25.2019	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after President Trump announced that he would support temporarily reopening the government after 35 days of the Trump shutdown: “The President announced that he would sign the clean spending bill that Democrats have advocated for since this pointless shutdown began 35 days ago. The Trump shutdown will go down in history as a waste of time and precious resources, needlessly putting hundreds of thousands of American families in peril. “After jeopardizing our nation’s security for more than a month, the President’s capitulation will finally put this shameful episode behind us. Over the next three weeks, I will continue to oppose funding for the President’s ill-informed and wasteful border-wall proposal, and instead advocate for effective border security solutions. “Congress must immediately take steps to ensure that the federal employees impacted by this disastrous failure in leadership are insulated from further unnecessary hardship.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as the Vice Chairman of the House Rules Committee, Chairman-designate of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Dean and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.23.2019	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after introducing the Ending Corporal Punishment In Schools Act of 2019. The legislation would end corporal punishment in our nation’s schools. Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors include: Representatives Steve Cohen (D-TN), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Eleanor Holmes-Norton (D-DC-At-Large), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), and Tim Ryan (D-OH) (Please find a copy of the bill attached): “I am pleased to introduce the Ending Corporal Punishment In Schools Act of 2019, legislation prohibiting any educational institution that allows school personnel to inflict corporal punishment on students from receiving federal funding. Corporal punishment is an outdated, barbaric, and ineffective practice that has no place in our schools today. Still legal in 19 states, more than 100,000 students were physically punished by being hit, slapped, and spanked at school last year. Corporal punishment is disproportionately used as a form of punishment for African American students, male students, and students with disabilities. The time has come to end this practice once and for all. I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure the passage of this important legislation to make schools safe places where students can learn free from harm.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as the Vice Chairman of the House Rules Committee, Chairman-designate of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Dean and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.23.2019	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings made the following statement on Day 33 of the government shutdown: “In two days, hundreds of thousands of American workers across the country will miss another paycheck. President Trump’s stubborn refusal to open the government has left our country weaker and our national security increasingly compromised. Each day that passes brings new uncertainty for hundreds of thousands of families falling deeper into crisis. “Last night, while chairing a meeting of the House Rules Committee, I took a moment to highlight some of the impacts of the shutdown in and around my district. While thousands of federal workers remain furloughed, Air Traffic Controllers, Coast Guardsmen, TSA Agents, and many others continue to work unpaid. They do this country a great service, but they are quickly reaching a breaking point. Republican or Democrat, this shutdown is a pox on both our houses.” Transcript I do want to also take a moment of personal privilege away from my personal concerns and thank the 800,000 employees, and I am sure I speak for everybody in this room and for this entire Congress, to thank them, particularly those who have been furloughed or particularly those who have come back to work. Like you all, I have been on airplanes recently, and like most of us, I know TSA personnel personally from having gone through working with them. But if I start with this, it will make a mistake, and it is a mistake I intend to make. The air traffic controllers who are working without pay are doing this Nation a tremendous service. The same for the Coast Guard, and those of us that live in coastal regions recognize that, as well as those along the border, how important their work is, not to mention TSA. I came through a checkpoint, like I am sure most of you, where they had reduced staff, and without pronouncing it, it shows the potential for vulnerability. Our food safety is something all of us are likely to be concerned about, and I am sure that the FDA, the EPA, and not to mention the FBI and the number of cases that they are having to either hold in abeyance or try and work at the same time that this shutdown is ongoing. And, indeed, those who work at Border and Customs Control, they have their concerns. Cabinet agencies where there are unfilled positions, not enough immigration judges to handle the folks that are there. Let me tell you all something. This is 82 years of wisdom at this particular point in time. If we don't – I am talking now Republicans and Democrats, liberals and conservatives – if we don't within a reasonable period of time, going forward, shut this shutdown down, then we are going to witness a pox on all our Houses. Thank you. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as the Vice Chairman of the House Rules Committee, Chairman-designate of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Dean and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.23.2019	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the below letter to the Comptroller General of the Government Accountability Office, Gene L. Dodaro, requesting a review of the effects of President Trump’s trade tariffs on our nation’s ability to take the lead on 5G technology infrastructure and deployment. Joining Hastings in signing the letter were Representatives Jim McGovern (D-MA), Ron Kind (D-WI), and Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY). (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter): January 18, 2019 The Honorable Gene L. Dodaro Comptroller General of the United States Government Accountability Office 441 G St., NW Washington, DC 20548 Dear Mr. Dodaro: As you know, 5G will be the unifying fabric that connects billions of devices in our homes, cars, offices and communities. Using what are known as “small cells,” this technology will provide ultra-fast, low-latency connections to the internet and all other devices on the 5G network, unleashing whole new families of innovative applications and devices. Getting us to this future, however, does come with a cost, mostly in the form of upgrades to hundreds of thousands of pieces of infrastructure and ever-shrinking circuitry that goes into our mobile devices. Telecommunications experts estimate that the number of small cell deployments will quadruple over Long-Term Evolution (LTE) deployments, and the number of devices connecting to this new infrastructure could be ten times more than current numbers. It is estimated that approximately $250 billion dollars of new infrastructure will be needed for a nation-wide 5G deployment over the next few years. At the same time, while 5G has an up-front cost, it has the potential to unleash huge economic benefits as well. I am told the deployment of these new networks could yield as many as three million new jobs and provide a $500 billion boost to the United States economy. It is clear that we cannot delay the rollout of this new technology. Furthermore, the United States must lead the rest of the world when it comes to this rollout. The United States and Europe face an existential challenge from China over 5G’s intellectual property, standards, and patents. Huawei, for example, has research programs to develop alternatives to American suppliers, and U.S. trade restrictions have accelerated China’s efforts to develop its own 5G industry. While American companies lead in making essential 5G technologies, the United States no longer manufacturers any of the core telecommunications network equipment related to 5G. Only four companies produce 5G hardware in any meaningful capacity and none are United States-based: Ericsson and Nokia from Sweden and Finland respectively, and two China-based hardware manufacturers, Huawei and ZTE. Given their track records in security, consumer privacy, and reliability, we must not allow Chinese manufacturers to dictate 5G infrastructure to the United States. President Trump has said that his administration is committed to continued leadership in wireless technology and that the rollout of secure, ubiquitous 5G is a top priority for this nation, but his trade policies do not reflect this priority, and in many cases, actively harm this nation’s attempts to stay ahead of the game in 5G. Buried deep inside of the schedule of goods subject to taxes on Chinese imports include “machines for the reception, conversion and transmission or regeneration of voice, images or other data, including switching and routing apparatus” and “apparatus for transmission or reception of voice, images, or other data, including apparatus for communication in a wired or wireless network.” These will serve as the raw materials that technology companies in the United States could forge into 5G hardware. I believe these tariffs are coming at the exact wrong time for us if our goal is to win the race to a 5G future. Given our concerns, we request that the Government Accountability Office conduct a review of all Trump trade policies including, but not limited to, tariffs that effect the trade in foundational telecommunications equipment. We ask that your evaluation address the following: If the tariffs are kept in place up through 2020, what additional costs will the United States incur when deploying 5G infrastructure, with an analysis of how it will impact both cities and rural areas? How do these tariffs affect the competition among 5G hardware manufacturers? What are the national security implications of our entire supply chain of 5G infrastructure being dependent on foreign hardware manufacturers? What are the possible conflicts of interest between Hauwei and the Trump Administration? Please give this request your full and fair consideration. Thank you in advance for your attention to this request. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Jim McGovern Member of Congress Ron Kind Member of Congress Yvette D. Clarke Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as the Vice Chairman of the House Rules Committee, Chairman-designate of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Dean and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.22.2019	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking the 46th anniversary of the U.S. Supreme Court’s Roe v. Wade decision: “For the past 46 years, Roe v. Wade has protected the right of women in America to make their own healthcare decisions. It has ushered in a new era of safer, more accessible healthcare options and empowered a generation of women to make their own choices. “Today, Roe continues to be under attack. More than 400 laws have been passed in states across the country aimed at intimidating women and restricting access to abortion and other essential health services. Too often, these dangerous restrictions disproportionately effect low-income people, people of color, immigrants, LGBTQ+ people, and youth. Women all across this nation must have access to comprehensive reproductive healthcare services, just as every person should be able to live, work, and make decisions about their health and future with dignity, equality, and economic security. “It is time for the 116th Congress to end these attacks on women’s reproductive rights. We must ensure that all people, regardless of their income or how they are insured, can access affordable healthcare and exercise their constitutional rights. I remain steadfast in my commitment to eliminate federal restrictions on abortion and fight for reproductive freedom, dignity, and equality in Congress.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as the Vice Chairman of the House Rules Committee, Chairman-designate of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Dean and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.21.2019	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement in honor of Martin Luther King Jr. Day: “Today, we pause to reflect on the legacy of Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s life's work to overcome hate and inequality. Dr. King’s teachings empowered us to believe that change was not only possible but also inevitable, and they continue to serve as valuable guideposts on the road towards a more inclusive nation. “Last week, the House of Representatives voted to condemn white supremacy and white nationalism. That such a vote is necessary in this day and age is disheartening, but a stark reminder of the challenges that remain in our effort to purge prejudice from our nation. We must never equivocate in our condemnation of blind hate, nor shy away from the fight for equality. “As we honor Dr. King and observe a national day of service, let us each reflect on the state of our nation. So much has changed since Dr. King’s first call to action, yet many of the fights of our forefathers endure. Disparities in education, employment, wealth, and social capital continue to persist among American communities of color, and for millions of Americans, the idea of the American Dream remains out of reach. “Each of us has a responsibility to reject prejudice, foster tolerance, and work to level the playing field so that each American family can live with dignity. I join in celebrating Dr. King’s legacy today as we continue the hard work of transforming our country into the place we know it should be.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as the Vice Chairman House Rules Committee, Chairman-designate of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Dean and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation.. ###
01.17.2019	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on introducing a House concurrent resolution supporting Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Haitian nationals residing in the United States at the time Hurricane Matthew made landfall in Haiti. Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors include: Representatives Jim McGovern (D-MA), Gwen Moore (D-WI), and Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ). (Please find a copy of the bill attached): “Hurricane Matthew was the worst hurricane to hit Haiti in 50 years, taking the lives of over 1,000 people, leading to the internal displacement of 175,000 Haitians, and leaving 1.4 million in need of urgent humanitarian aid. Any decision regarding whether TPS ought to be extended or granted must take Hurricane Matthew into consideration. “The people of Haiti have faced several natural disasters over the years including the 2010 earthquake, the subsequent Cholera outbreak, and most recently Hurricane Matthew. As Haiti continue to work diligently to address these and other important issues, including creating strong democratic institutions, we must do all that we can to help Haiti rebuild. I, therefore encourage all my colleagues to join me in letting the people of Haiti and its diaspora know that we stand with them.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as the Vice Chairman House Rules Committee, Chairman-designate of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Dean and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.17.2019	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement after introducing the Haitian Educational Empowerment Act of 2019, legislation establishing a scholarship for Haitian students whose studies were interrupted by the 2010 earthquake or Hurricane Matthew. Joining Hastings in introducing the legislation were Representatives Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Marcia Fudge (D-OH), Nita Lowey (D-NY), Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. (D-GA), Yvette Clarke (D-NY), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Darren Soto (D-FL), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Frederica Wilson (D-FL), and Andy Levin (D-MI). (Please find a copy of the bill attached.) “I am pleased to introduce the Haitian Educational Empowerment Act of 2019, legislation that establishes a scholarship program for Haitian students whose studies were interrupted by the 2010 earthquake or Hurricane Matthew. Those of us who care about Haiti and its’ diaspora know that it remains on the road to recovery. The rebuilding continues from not only Hurricane Matthew, but also the 2010 earthquake and Cholera outbreak, all of which have been roadblocks to Haiti’s full recovery. These disasters claimed the lives of thousands of people, displaced over 175,000 Haitians, and severely damaged many of Haiti’s institutions of education. “The scholarships made available through this legislation will ensure that Haiti has access to the future teachers, doctors, lawyers and civil servants it will need to realize its full potential with strong democratic institutions and a robust economy. I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure the passage of this important legislation.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as the Vice Chairman House Rules Committee, Chairman-designate of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Dean and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.17.2019	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after the House of Representatives voted for the ninth time to reopen the government: “President Trump shut the government down 27 days ago and Democrats have been trying to reopen it ever since. Despite nine votes in the House of Representatives, including a short-term continuing resolution and full appropriations measures written by the Republican-controlled Senate, Senate Majority Leader McConnell has refused to act. The Senate has not considered a single bill to open the government since the shutdown began. This is an outrageous dereliction of the trust placed in our elected representatives. “The Trump Administration has begun selectively forcing thousands of federal employees to report to work without pay in order to diminish the fallout with his political base. This is an alarming abuse of power. I am thoroughly disgusted by the President’s moral and ethical failures, and Senator McConnell’s indifference as our country suffers. The financial security of over 800,000 civil servants and the security of our country is not a political token to be bargained over campaign promises. President Trump must come to the table and end this shutdown now!” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as the Vice Chairman House Rules Committee, Chairman-designate of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Dean and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.17.2019	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement after Democratic House Leadership supported vacating the vote on the continuing resolution passed this afternoon in order to allow Republican members to record their votes electronically: “House Majority Leader Hoyer’s support for vacating the vote on the continuing resolution in order to allow Republican members to record their votes electronically should be taken as a sign that our party is serious about governing more fairly. The House of Representatives needs to reassert itself as an open, effective, and inclusive body, and allowing the minority to revote on today’s measure to open the government is a testament to that commitment. “Following today’s vote, Republican Members of Congress jeered at the majority, with one member even yelling ‘go back to Puerto Rico.’ In comparison to the Majority’s decision to allow a revote, this action is a childish, unprofessional, and divisive comment that is all too reflective of past years of Republican leadership in this body. If we are to make this institution a more inclusive place, we need to start by treating each other with civility. I urge the Republican leadership to repudiate this behavior, so that we can work together towards this worthy goal.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as the Vice Chairman House Rules Committee, Chairman-designate of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Dean and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.16.2019	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement after joining House Democrats in introducing the Raise the Wage Act of 2019, legislation that would gradually raise the federal minimum wage to $15 by 2024. “It has been nearly 10 years since the federal minimum wage was increased. At $7.25 an hour, that’s just $15,000 a year for a full-time worker. I am proud to join with so many of my democratic colleagues to introduce the Raise the Wage Act to give low-wage workers in our country the raise they rightly deserve. “By raising the minimum wage to $15, we would provide millions of Americans with a long overdue raise and the means to lift themselves out of poverty. A living wage will increase productivity, decrease job turnover, and enable hardworking and working poor Americans to support their families and save for the future. Low-wage workers deserve to live with dignity. They deserve a living wage, and the time to act is now! I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure passage of this critically important legislation. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as the Vice Chairman House Rules Committee, Chairman-designate of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Dean and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.14.2019	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement announcing that he is undergoing treatment for pancreatic cancer at the Georgetown Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center: “I was recently diagnosed with pancreatic cancer, and in the midst of this traumatizing news, I found myself wondering not only if I would survive this disease, but also if it would impact my ability to perform my duties. Now that I have begun treatment, I feel hopeful about survival and about my ability to continue serving my constituents of Florida’s 20th Congressional district and the nation. “My doctors have stated that the advancement in the treatment of cancer is evolutionary and the success rates continue to climb resulting in a dramatic decrease in the number of cancer-related deaths. “I have been convinced that this is a battle worth fighting, and my life is defined by fighting battles worth fighting. Should it become clear that this cancer which has invaded my body cannot be defeated, I will tell you so. “I release this statement, because I want to be the source providing you with this information. I ask for your prayers at this time.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Vice Chairman of the House Rules Committee, Chairman-designate of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Dean and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation.
01.10.2019	Today, Congressmen Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Co-Chairmen of the Congressional Everglades Caucus, introduced the bipartisan Everglades for the Next Generation Act. The legislation authorizes Everglades restoration projects that are shovel-ready, ensuring that necessary progress in the region continues. It also provides the Army Corps of Engineers with the flexibility needed to avoid Congressional bottlenecking in the future. (Please find attached a copy of the bill). “Protection and restoration of the Everglades is a top priority,” said Hastings. “The Everglades is absolutely vital to the overall health of both South Florida’s ecosystem and economy. Congressional inaction has persevered for far too long despite bipartisan support for restoration. This measure will allow the Army Corps of Engineers to begin work on shovel-ready projects, without having to await another Water Resources Development Act.” “Everglades restoration continues to be one of my top priorities in Congress,” said Diaz-Balart. “As Co-Founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Everglades Caucus, I know how critical the preservation of this natural treasure is to our state. We must do everything we can to protect Florida’s ecosystem, and we cannot allow delays to occur which would impede the work that needs to be done. That is why I am glad to once again introduce legislation with my friend Rep. Alcee Hastings that will make it easier for the U.S. Army Corps to begin work on projects that have already been approved through the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan. This would lead to greater efficiency and expedited completion of critical Everglades restoration projects. As the 116th Congress begins, I will continue to prioritize and advocate on behalf of the Everglades and the projects that are so vital to its repair.” ###
01.08.2019	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after being appointed as Vice Chairman to the House Committee on Rules and taking over as Dean of the Florida Delegation: “I am grateful to Speaker Pelosi and the Democratic leadership team for appointing me Vice Chairman of the House Committee on Rules and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Legislative and Budget Process. I look forward to working with Chairman McGovern, as well as my fellow colleagues on the Committee in instituting a fair and democratic process that helps restore integrity to the House of Representatives. Last Congress, we saw the most closed Congress in the history of our country. I applaud Chairman McGovern’s focus on an open and transparent process, and look forward to playing an active role in cleaning-up Congress, so that we can better work on behalf and for the American people. “It is also with great pride that I have served as part of the Florida Delegation for the past 26 years, as a Member, Co-Chairman, and now Dean of the Delegation. I look forward to working with my distinguished Co-Chairman, Congressman Vern Buchanan, and my Florida colleagues on a bipartisan basis to ensure Florida receives the vital resources it needs.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings represents Florida’s 20th Congressional District and serves as Vice Chairman of the House Rules Committee, Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, Co-Chairman and Dean of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.08.2019	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on President Donald John Trump’s address to the nation: “Eighteen days into the government shutdown, the President continues to play games with American security. The President can reopen the government tonight by supporting bipartisan funding bills that have passed the House and received overwhelming support in the Republican Senate. Instead, he continues to fabricate absurd claims that thousands of terrorists are crossing the border from Mexico, while leaving nearly one million federal workers in limbo. This isn’t leadership; it’s a ransom demand. “Democrats agree that we need to invest in effective border security. An expensive, ineffective border wall will not meet this need. “As the President continues to grandstand, more than 800,000 federal workers are furloughed or working without pay and our country is losing billions of dollars. Farmers, homeowners, and small businesses are without assistance; tens of millions of people stand to lose vital food assistance; and the safety and security of our national transportation network is unnecessarily being placed in jeopardy. The President has the power to stop hurting our country and end his obnoxious shutdown."
01.07.2019	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the passing of Edith Schaffer Lederberg: “It is with a heavy heart that I learned of the passing of Edith Schaffer Lederberg. For more than forty years, Edith dedicated herself to advocating for and serving the senior community in Broward County, including as the Executive Director at the Aging and Disability Resource Center, where she worked diligently to ensure that every senior could live with the dignity and security they deserve. Our community has lost a devoted leader whose passion and longstanding commitment to our elder population was an inspiration. She touched so many lives and left an indelible mark on Broward County. My deepest condolences go out to the Lederberg family during this time of great sadness. May she rest in peace.” ###
01.03.2019	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the convening of the 116th Congress: “Today, the 116th Congress convenes with the new Democratic House taking swift action to pass two bills to reopen the government after a second week of the Trump shutdown. “I am eager to get to work on behalf of the countless families who have gone ignored during eight years of Republican control of the House. The Democratic Majority will prioritize investments in education, housing, and infrastructure. We will work to ensure that every American has access to affordable healthcare, a livable wage, and 21st century workplace protections. We will promote racial justice, protect clean air and clean water, and access to the ballot box, and we will do whatever we can to reassert Americas role as a leader and moral force across the globe. “Starting today, House Democrats will serve as a check on the reckless policies of the President’s administration. For two years, House Republicans stood idly and watched as the President worked against the interests of our nation, by promoting policies predicated on intolerance and apathy, while lurching from crisis to crisis. Today, the House will assert itself to hold this administration accountable. “As Democrats take control of Congress, we will strive for bipartisanship and common ground where we can – and will stand firm where we must. As we debate our differences, we will remain steadfast in working to unite, not divide our country and are prepared on day one to get the job done for the American people that we are so privileged to serve.” ###
01.03.2019	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after introducing the Build America Act, legislation that will strengthen and expand two existing infrastructure grant programs to invest approximately $10 billion in infrastructure improvements annually. Joining Hastings as original cosponsors of the legislation were Representatives Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY), Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), and Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. (D-GA). (Please find attached a copy of the legislation): “I am pleased to mark the beginning of the 116th Congress by reintroducing the Build America Act. This bill will significantly expand funding for two merit-based infrastructure grant programs, paving the way for billions of dollars of investments nationwide every year. These programs have been utilized by communities across the country for years, allowing them to more easily address their most pressing infrastructure needs. My bill gives these programs the resources they need to ensure every state can get the assistance they need to invest in roads, bridges, tunnels, ports, and public transportation. Each program requires matching funds from those seeking assistance, making them smart and effective avenues for leveraging federal funding to make a real impact across the country. I look forward to working with my colleagues to safeguard these avenues for funding so that we can start making the investments in infrastructure our country so desperately needs.” BACKGROUND: The Build America Act removes the Capital Investment Grant Program (CIG), also known as New Starts/Small Starts, and the BUILD Grant Program, formerly known as the Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery Grant Program, or TIGER Grants, from the annual appropriations process. The bill reestablishes them as mandatory programs with permanently expanded funding. ###
01.03.2019	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after voting to end President Trump’s 3rd government shutdown and reopen the federal government in entirety: “Today, as one of my first actions in the 116th Congress, I worked with my colleagues in the Democratically-controlled House of Representatives to pass legislation that would reopen the federal government in entirety. The package passed by House Democrats is a common sense solution to ending a crisis that should have never arisen in the first place. “Two years into his administration, the President appears to have learned nothing about how to effectively govern this country. While controlling all three branches of government, President Trump’s Republican Party shut down the government on three separate occasions, costing us billions of dollars and causing irrevocable harm on countless families. More than 800,000 families are currently without their paychecks because of this disastrous shutdown, jeopardizing their health, safety, and financial stability. “Today, House Democrats took steps to open the government and usher in a new era of leadership with greater transparency and accountability. The House of Representatives will reassert its role and serve as a check on the reckless policies of the President’s administration, and we will work to make our country more inclusive and more reflective of the values we hold.”
12.20.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after President Trump announced the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Syria: “The President’s abrupt decision to withdraw troops from Syria despite a number of unresolved and pressing national security matters is extremely troubling. His assessment that the Islamic State has been defeated is shockingly divorced from reality, and has been contradicted by national security professionals within his own administration. By leaving before the job is done, the President is playing games with our national security and the security of Israel, and jeopardizing the hard-won progress against the Islamic State. “When I was last in the region, I saw first-hand the horrors the Syrian people were, and are, suffering at the hands of the Assad regime. I also saw the effects of the refugee crisis on the stability of the region and the governments of Jordan, Lebanon, and Turkey. The United States must hold Russia and Iran accountable for their support of the Assad regime and its reprehensible crimes against the people of Syria. Withdrawing American forces as the President intends would abdicate American leadership in this troubled region, leaving Russia and Iran to assert themselves uncontested. It’s no wonder Russian President Vladimir Putin so quickly applauded President Trump’s announcement. “Americans deserve a well-considered, strong, and strategic U.S. policy on Syria that puts national interest first, not a hurried and possibly political decision made by a President whose campaign and administration’s possible ties to Russia are still under investigation by the Department of Justice. Rather than hastily withdraw and risk creating a power vacuum, the President should work with Congress to carefully craft and pass an Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) that defines our purpose and role in the region.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings represents Florida’s 20th Congressional District and serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.17.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after a U.S. District Judge in Texas struck down the Affordable Care Act (ACA) as unconstitutional: “Friday’s absurd court ruling follows more than 70 failed attempts by Congressional Republicans to dismantle the ACA and two U.S. Supreme Court rulings upholding the law. The American people sent a strong signal to Republicans last November that their relentless attacks on the ACA will not be tolerated. Dismantling life-saving protections that will help children, seniors, and those with pre-existing conditions is not in our country’s best interest. “Having been defeated time and time again in Congress, President Trump and the Republican Party are now attempting to use the courts to overturn the law. I predict they will fail. “I will continue to work with my colleagues in the 116th Congress to ensure that affordable healthcare is within reach for all. We owe it to all Americans to ensure that healthcare is affordable, accessible, and comprehensive. I call on my Republican colleagues to reverse their attacks on those who are most vulnerable and join the Democrats in strengthening healthcare all across our nation.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.13.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the passage of the conference report to H.R. 2, the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018, by a vote of 369-47: “Yesterday, the House of Representatives overwhelmingly passed a strong and bipartisan Farm Bill, which included much needed support for our nation’s farmers, life-saving programs like the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), conservation efforts, and important animal welfare provisions. The sugar program remains substantially the same, but includes a loan rate increase of 1 cent per pound for cane sugar and 1.28 cents for beet sugar. I commend Chairman Mike Conaway, Ranking Member Collin Peterson and the Farm Bill Conferees on including these important provisions. “The Farm Bill’s inclusion of language prohibiting the cruel dog and cat meat trade domestically in addition to the passage of the Dog and Cat Meat Trade Prohibition Act in September 2018 represents a historic step forward to unify animal cruelty laws across the United States and generate momentum for the animal welfare movement. I am proud to have championed this effort in Congress, along with my colleagues Representatives Vern Buchanan, David Trott and Brendan Boyle, to explicitly ban the killing and consumption dogs and cats across the United States.” BACKGROUND: The language included in the Farm Bill was based off of H.R. 6720, the Dog and Cat Meat Trade Prohibition Act, which passed the House in September 2018. H.R.6720, a modified version of H.R.1406, was originally introduced by Congressman Hastings (D-FL), as well as Representatives Vern Buchanan (R-FL), David Trott (R-MI) and Brendan Boyle (D-PA) on March 7, 2017. The legislation, which had broad bipartisan support in the House of Representatives, amends the Animal Welfare Act to prohibit people from knowingly slaughtering a dog or cat for human consumption. In addition, the bill prohibits people from knowingly transporting, possessing, buying, selling, or donating: (1) a dog or cat to be slaughtered for human consumption, or (2) dog or cat parts for human consumption, setting a maximum fine of $5,000 for violations. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.11.2018	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after Time Magazine recognized the Guardians and the War on Truth, including journalists Jamal Khashoggi, Maria Ressa, Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo, and news organization, the Capital Gazette of Annapolis, Maryland as the 2018 Person of the Year: “Each year, Time Magazine announces the person who has most influenced the world. In recognizing four journalists and one news organization that exemplify the “Guardians and the War on Truth,” Time has acknowledged the extreme courage and great personal risk journalists take in the pursuit of uncovering and reporting the truth. “The recognition of the late Jamal Khashoggi of the Washington Post, for which mounting evidence of whose death has implicated the Government of Saudi Arabia, marks the first time a deceased person has been given this honor. Khashoggi and the five journalists who were killed in the shooting at the Capitol Gazette this year paid the ultimate price for their dedication to reporting the truth. Journalists Jamal Khashoggi, Maria Ressa, Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo, and news organization, the Capital Gazette of Annapolis, Maryland should be honored for their dedication to the goal of informing the public and strengthening democracy. Indeed, they are deserving choices for this recognition. “Undeniably, 2018 has been a tumultuous year fraught by worrisome attacks on freedom of the press and human rights in the United States and across the globe. From attempts to discredit reporting as ‘fake news’ for political gain to the jailing or murder of journalists – freedom of the press and human rights have disturbingly been under attack. “As incoming Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission and President Emeritus of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) Parliamentary Assembly, I am committed to standing up for freedom of the press, human rights, equality, justice, and human dignity.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.07.2018	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) failed to pass a resolution offered by U.S. Ambassador Nikki Haley condemning the terrorist group Hamas: “The UNGA’s rejection of the US-sponsored resolution condemning Hamas for proliferating terror and firing rockets into Israel is an abject failure of the international community. As stated by Israel’s Ambassador to the United Nations (UN) Danny Dannon, ‘silence in the face of evil reveals your true colors.’ I could not agree more. “The indifference shown by so many at the UNGA for the lives of innocent Israeli and Palestinian victims of Hamas is both frustrating and heartbreaking. The failure of this resolution will likely be spun by the very forces it sought to reject to legitimize the continuation of terrorism and the cycle of violence that has already affected so many lives in Israel and Gaza. Such an outcome is, quite simply, disgusting. “I am and have always been a supporter of human rights across the globe, just as I am and always have been a supporter of the UN. However, it becomes increasingly difficult to continue supporting the UN when the Arab block incessantly unites against resolutions like this one while supporting offensive resolutions disavowing Jewish ties to the most holy site in Judaism and rejecting Israel’s right to exist. These unfair attacks only make peace more elusive. “While this vote was a missed opportunity to unequivocally reject terror, I take heart knowing that this resolution failed because of a last minute rule-change requiring a two-thirds majority rather than a simple majority. The 87 nations that voted to support the resolution should be commended for standing up to terror. The United States will continue to stand with Israel.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.04.2018	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), along with Representatives Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA), James P. McGovern (D-MA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Donald S. Beyer Jr. (D-VA), and Salud Carbajal (D-CA) sent the following letter to the Secretary of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), Sonny Perdue III, urging common sense reforms which promote the humane treatment of farm animals and the responsible use of taxpayer dollars in the Farm Service Agency’s Livestock Indemnity Program. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter): December 4, 2018 The Honorable Sonny Perdue III Secretary of Agriculture U.S. Department of Agriculture 1400 Independence Avenue S.W. Washington, D.C. 20250 Dear Secretary Perdue: We believe the United States Department of Agriculture Farm Service Agency’s Livestock Indemnity Program should implement common sense changes to the information collected from farmers prior to providing reimbursement for animals that have died as a result of adverse weather events. The Humane Farming Association informed us that, from 2013 to 2017, USDA’s LIP issued payments of approximately $199 million to farmers and ranchers for animal deaths due primarily to adverse weather events. The total animal deaths included a staggering 277,471 livestock and 6,686,168 poultry. Despite the large amount of taxpayer dollars and animal loss involved, the LIP does not currently ask farmers applying for reimbursement to answer any questions regarding the shelter, care, or treatment provided to animals that died due to adverse weather events. Furthermore, since the cap was removed in the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, there is now no limit on the amount of LIP compensation that a qualifying farmer can receive. Moreover, the Humane Farming Association informed us that many animals are provided little to no shelter and subjected to prolonged suffering and agonizing deaths that could be preventable if proper weather precautions and disaster management plans were encouraged by the FSA’s LIP. For example, in the summer of 2017 in California’s central valley, thousands of dairy cows died from heat stroke due to a lack of adequate protections from the heat such as sufficient shade, fans, and misters. In the aftermath, three counties in California declared states of emergency, because they were not able to render the dead fast enough. When no adequate protection is put in place during adverse weather events, producers are reimbursed for dead livestock at 75 percent of the animals’ market value. We believe this represents a clear disincentive for farmers to take the necessary steps to have a disaster management plan and provide their animals with protections from adverse weather events. Without this compensation, we believe many producers would no doubt make an effort to provide for their animals. Instead, we believe massive numbers of neglected livestock are dying painfully and needlessly while taxpayers foot the bill. For these reasons, we believe that producers applying for compensation under LIP be required to provide detailed information regarding the precautionary measures that the producer took to avoid the death of livestock during adverse weather events. We believe LIP applicants should be required to provide direct proof, including but not limited to photos, videos, or records, of preparations made to provide for the well-being of animals in their care during adverse weather events. In addition to the Livestock Death Loss Documentation required by LIP, which requires applicants to document the number and kind of livestock that died, we believe the FSA should require that applicants answer specific questions regarding the preparations that were made to protect animals from death from adverse weather events. These questions could include: What was the producer’s disaster management plan in the case of an adverse weather event? What steps were taken by the producer to keep animals from suffering from or dying as a result of exposure to heat, cold, or other elements? What type of shelter did the producer provide to animals prior to the eligible adverse weather event? What percentage of a producer’s animals did that shelter accommodate? Were transport vehicles available to evacuate the animals out of harm’s way? Were emergency food/water supplies available to accommodate animals that did not have access to normal food/water sources?Was veterinary assistance available to treat or humanely euthanize animals? We believe all farm animals deserve to be given an adequate level of humane treatment and care including proper food, water, and shelter. Furthermore, we believe farmers should not be rewarded with taxpayer dollars for not providing these most basic levels of humane treatment. For these reasons, we respectfully request that, if LIP compensation is made available, the FSA should only provide it to those producers who not only put in place adverse weather protections for their livestock, but also document those protections. Thank you for your attention to our request and we look forward to your response. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Debbie Wasserman Schultz Member of Congress Brendan F. Boyle Member of Congress James P. McGovern Member of Congress Earl Blumenauer Member of Congress Donald S. Beyer Jr. Member of Congress Salud Carbajal Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.01.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the passing of former President George H.W. Bush: “The United States has lost a dedicated public servant. President George H.W. Bush was the epitome of an American statesman: he served with distinction, championed diversity and freedom, and led our country with integrity, faith, and compassion. He was a frank leader, but a gentleman, nonetheless. Each of us could learn much from his example. “Despite our political differences, I will always remember President Bush for his selfless, humble approach to public service that is all too rare in today’s political atmosphere. His belief in a ‘kinder, gentler America’ full of light is a stark reminder of what each of us should stand for, and what America represents to the world. “I am deeply saddened by President George H.W. Bush’s passing. I extend my deepest sympathies to his children, President George W. Bush, former Governor Jeb Bush, Neil, Marvin, and Dorothy, and the entire Bush family. May they take consolation in knowing that our entire nation grieves with them, and that President Bush has been reunited with his beloved wife, Barbara, and their daughter, Robin." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.29.2018	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after President Donald John Trump’s former attorney Michael Cohen pleaded guilty to lying to Congress about Trump’s business interests in Russia: “Special Counsel Robert Mueller has brought 192 criminal charges against more than 30 defendants in his investigation into President Trump’s involvement of Russian interference in the 2016 Presidential election. Today’s guilty plea from President Trump’s former attorney Michael Cohen makes it clear that the President repeatedly lied about his business interests in Russia and that his associates were willing to lie and deceive Congress to cover it up. “Now, more than ever, the Special Counsel’s investigation must be allowed to continue unimpeded. Congress must act to ensure that no one, be it the President or members of his administration, be allowed to interfere or stifle this investigation.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.29.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) informed Congress that it would not repay underpaid GI benefits to thousands of veterans: “The VA’s announcement that it will ignore federal law and cheat veterans out of their GI benefits is insulting and unacceptable. The VA has the responsibility to provide for our veterans, and failing to uphold these responsibilities is a betrayal of the public’s trust. “The Trump Administration’s leadership of the VA has been characterized by gross negligence and severe failures in oversight. The Administration continues to undercut the VA’s mission to our veterans, and its leaders now appear to think that they can adopt Donald Trump’s own approach to leadership by refusing to fulfil its obligations to those it owes. “The President claims to champion veterans, but today’s announcement reiterates just how little he understands our nation’s commitment to the veteran community. If the Administration will not provide our veterans with their earned benefits, Congress must step in to ensure that every veteran gets the benefits they are entitled to.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.26.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the release of the Fourth National Climate Assessment Report by the Trump administration: “President Trump’s attempt to bury his own administration’s National Climate Assessment is as shameful as the report is shocking and makes clear that climate change is not a problem for the distant future, but a huge problem now. The message is loud and clear: The United States must urgently act on climate change. “Year after year, we see higher temperatures, rising sea levels, deadly wildfires, and record-breaking hurricane seasons along our coasts. The report concludes that these climate-related impacts on U.S. agriculture, health, tourism, fisheries, energy, infrastructure, and businesses will only get worse, as well as more expensive and challenging. The assessment also points out that climate change will not affect all communities equally, with low-income communities and communities of color suffering the most. “Climate change is not debatable, and no region of our country and no sector of our economy will be spared. While the Trump Administration and Congressional Republicans continue to deny that climate change exists, Democrats will use our new House Majority to take aggressive action to reduce climate pollution and help communities build their resilience to the impacts of climate change.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.11.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in recognition of Veterans Day: “On this Veterans Day, we honor those who have made the ultimate sacrifice and remember those who have served our nation in the name of freedom and democracy. By answering the call to serve during our most trying times, they exemplify the very best of our country. “As we pause to salute these heroes, let us not forget their families who have sacrificed alongside them. During a time when our nation is deeply divided, we should use their example of selflessness and humility to come together to make our country a better place for all. “As we mark this year’s Veterans Day, I pledge to continue working with my colleagues in Congress to ensure that our veterans are provided with the services they need and rightfully deserve.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.08.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on last night’s shooting at the Borderline Bar and Grill Dance Hall in Thousand Oaks, California: “My heart sank this morning when I learned of last night's shooting in Thousand Oaks, California. It is with profound grief that I offer my condolences to the families that lost loved ones and prayers for the injured. “I also join in paying tribute to Sergeant Ron Helus, who died in the line of duty while responding to this horrific event. First responders put their lives in danger every day to keep our communities safe and for that we owe them our gratitude. “This is the fourth mass shooting to affect our country in just two weeks. As I have said before, we needlessly endure heartbreak after heartbreak as our public places become targets of violence. The truth of the matter is that the current Republican Congress has done nothing to stop the epidemic of gun violence raging across our nation. This must end now! “Again and again, there have been calls for reforming our lax gun control laws, but such efforts have been routinely blocked by those who have placed the needs of the gun lobby over the interests of the American people. I look forward to joining with my colleagues in the 116th Congress to change course and make addressing gun violence a top priority.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.07.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on President Donald John Trump’s firing of Attorney General Jeff Sessions: “President Trump’s sudden dismissal of Attorney General Jeff Sessions is a thinly veiled attempt to undermine Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation. If the President fired Attorney General Sessions to in any way weaken the Mueller investigation, it would be an alarming abuse of power. No one in our country is above the law, and Congress must act swiftly to protect the Special Counsel, investigate the President’s actions, and, if necessary, hold him accountable. Given his record objecting to the Mueller investigation, I call on Acting Attorney General Matthew Whitaker to immediately recuse himself from having any involvement in this investigation.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.27.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the shooting at the Tree of Life Synagogue in the Squirrel Hill neighborhood of Pittsburgh: “The shooting at The Tree of Life Synagogue is a vile act of hatred. As the details continue to emerge, I offer my prayers and support to all those affected by this despicable act. Today is a day of great sadness, of mourning, and of reflection. “We know members of law enforcement were shot while responding to this event, and that the extent of their injuries are not yet known. These brave men and women deserve our gratitude for all that they do to keep us safe. I commend all of the first responders who rushed to the scene in service to their community. “We endure heartbreak after heartbreak in this country, and have allowed our places of worship, our schools, and our public spaces to become targets of hate and violence. This is beyond condemnation. “While some may choose to hide behind political expediency and say that, ‘now is not the time’ to talk about racism and gun violence, I say that now is exactly the time. Over the past two years, our country has witnessed a resurgence of openly aired racism and hate, including a dramatic increase in acts of Anti-Semitism. I, like so many others, have called on the President to tone down his rhetoric and take positive action, only to watch in dismay as he strokes the egos of American neo-Nazis, white supremacists, nationalists, and hate groups. “Again and again, there have been calls for reforming our lax gun control laws, and again and again these efforts have been blocked by those beholden to the gun lobby. This madness must end! For those who continue to stand in the way of even the most modest reforms, I am only left wondering when enough will finally be enough.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.26.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) apprehended a suspect in the bombing attempts of critics of the Trump Administration: “I join in thanking the members of law enforcement who worked diligently to locate and arrest a suspect in the string of bombing attempts throughout our country. I again condemn these cowardly attempts to incite fear and promote violence in the strongest terms. “Cesar Sayoc stands accused of deliberately targeting critics of the Trump Administration who express political views different from the President. I know that those targeted by these cowardly acts will not give in to intimidation and will continue to stand-up for their beliefs and their constitutionally protected rights. Mr. Sayoc’s culpability will be assessed, and if he is found guilty, will be held accountable for his actions. “It is a profound relief that a suspect has been apprehended, and that none of the explosives mailed to high-profile Democrats detonated. Many lives and unknown heartbreak has been spared by this miracle. We may learn of more packages in the days ahead, and I am confident that members of law enforcement will continue to respond as they have so professionally over the past week. “There is a sickness pervading in our country, and I have no doubt that in the coming days we will hear renewed calls for civility in our national rhetoric. If we are to treat this moment with the seriousness it deserves, we cannot shy away from addressing this disturbing trend head on. Each of us – from the President down – needs to play his or her part to restore respect within the political atmosphere. “The President’s castigation of the media as illegitimate and incitement against those who disagree with him has emerged as an enduring abuse of power. For too long, Republican leaders have stood idly by as their followers called for imprisoning their opponents, advanced racist or Anti-Semitic conspiracy theories, or even celebrated acts of violence. “We are better than this, and we must intervene before this disturbing trend begins to define us. We each have a responsibility to our neighbors, and I intend to continue working to make our country a better, safer, and more tolerant place for everybody.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.25.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the passing of Coral Springs Mayor Walter “Skip” Campbell: “I was deeply saddened to learn of the passing of Mayor Walter “Skip” Campbell Tuesday evening. Skip spent a lifetime working for our community, as a member of the Florida Senate and Mayor of Coral Springs. He leaves behind a legacy of dedicated public service. “Skip was known to be an astute problem-solver. He championed compromise for the good of our community and always had his sights set on pursuing justice. Coral Springs and all of South Florida is better because of his leadership. “I offer my sincerest condolences to Skip’s wife, Lynn, his two children, son Daniel and daughter Christina, and his three grandchildren, Alex, Aaron and Leo, during this time of great sadness.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.25.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the passing of former Palm Beach County Commissioner Burt Aaronson: “Burt Aaronson served the people of Palm Beach County for two decades, distinguishing himself as an independent thinker who did what was right for the people he represented. It was with great sadness that I learned of his passing. “Burt always put the people of Palm Beach County first. He expanded public safety facilities and parks, and established attractions like the Palm Beach International Film Festival. He was known as person willing to work with anyone who could help make our community better, and will undoubtedly be remembered for his larger-than-life character, his unwavering commitment to his family, and his devout commitment to Palm Beach County. “I offer my deepest sympathies to Burt’s wife, Sheila, his two children, Rick and Dan, and his five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren during this very sad time.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.20.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) issued the following statement on the passing of Judge Edward Rodgers: “My condolences go out to Eddie’s family. Our community has lost a man who was the manifestation of all that is good about a human being. He did so much good for so many of us. Borrowing from the spiritual, ‘The deeds he has done will speak for him.’ His legacy is iconic and will live on.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.18.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after earning a 100 percent scorecard from the Human Rights Campaign in the 115th Congress: “I am truly honored to receive this recognition from the Human Rights Campaign, our country’s largest civil rights organization working to achieve equality for the LGBTQ community. “Throughout my entire career, I have always proudly advocated for equal rights for all Americans, and will continue to fight for our LGBTQ friends. Under the Trump administration, LGBTQ equality remains under attack. While we still face many challenges, I will always be an advocate for equality and justice. “I am proud to stand on the right side of history in my support of LGBTQ equality. We must continue to support all efforts to end bigotry and prejudice towards gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgendered Americans to ensure a brighter future for all of our fellow citizens.” Background: The Human Rights Campaign (HRC) is America’s largest civil rights organization working to achieve equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer people. In addition to votes on LGBTQ-specific legislation, the HRC Scorecard also includes a number of votes that profoundly impact LGBTQ people and their families. The HRC Scorecard for the 115th Congress is available online at www.hrc.org/scorecard. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.17.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement in response to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell’s suggestion of gutting Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security entitlements to make up for record-breaking GOP budget deficits: “Republicans are at it again, suggesting that seniors, the disabled, and low-income Americans cover the costs of their out of control spending. Suggesting cuts to entitlements to cover record-breaking deficits is a gut-punch to those who rely on these critical programs, and it comes just months after Republicans exploded the deficit with their $2 trillion give away to corporations and the wealthiest people in our country. “Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security provide life-saving care for millions of Americans every year. These programs cover hospital care, home health care, and skilled nursing, and provide workers with protections, so that they do not need to retire into poverty. These benefits are earned by a lifetime of hard work and playing by the rules. It is ridiculous to suggest that they would be used so that millionaires and corporations that outsource American jobs can get richer. “The people of South Florida need these benefits. I will never vote to weaken them, and will continue to push back against any irresponsible and misguided effort to do so.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.04.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement recognizing National Breast Cancer Awareness Month: “As we mark the start of National Breast Cancer Awareness Month, I am proud to support the patients, providers, and advocates who are raising awareness about breast cancer prevention and treatment. When breast cancer is detected early in a localized area, the survival rate is 98 percent. It is clear that early detection through routine screening can be life-changing. “However, despite tremendous effort to combat this terrible disease, we still have significant work to do in learning how to prevent, treat, and cure breast cancer. In 2018, it is estimated that 266,120 new cases of invasive breast cancer will be diagnosed among U.S. women and approximately 2,470 new cases among U.S. men. More than 40,000 will die of the disease this year. In addition to invasive cancers, 63,960 new cases of in situ breast cancer will be diagnosed among women in the U.S. in 2018. “With recent advancements in research and treatment, more and more people have survived cancer and are living longer, healthier lives. This is why I was pleased to again lead the effort to fully fund the Peer-Reviewed Breast Cancer Research Program (BCRP) through the Defense Department’s (DoD) Congressionally Directed Medical Research Program (CDMRP). Over 180 Members of the House of Representatives joined me in advocating for robust funding for Fiscal Year 2019 to support this worthy program, which is a critical tool in the ongoing effort to end breast cancer. “I commend and applaud the advocates, researchers, survivors, and the men and women who fight breast cancer every day. I will continue to ensure that breast cancer research receives appropriate funding in Congress. Despite Republican attacks to the Affordable Care Act and to those with pre-existing conditions, I also remain more committed than ever to increasing access to affordable healthcare for all. We owe it to these individuals and their families to continue funding this lifesaving research and ensuring they are not denied health coverage.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.01.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking the first anniversary of the shooting at the Route 91 Harvest Festival in Las Vegas: “One year ago, we suffered the worst mass shooting in our country’s history. Fifty-eight people were killed and 869 injured when a gunman opened fire at the Route 91 Harvest Festival, firing more than 1,000 rounds in just 11 minutes. The scale of this tragedy remains profound, and the heartbreak unfathomable. Today, my thoughts and prayers are with the families of those who lost loved ones, those who were injured and still on the long road to recovery, and all who were affected by this devastating event. “More than 33,000 Americans will die from gun violence this year. They are our friends, our neighbors, and our family. Many of them will not garner a 'breaking news' headline. Until the national conversation about guns and gun violence yields action, we will continue to suffer from unnecessary tragedies and anguish. “There is no need to parse words. Republican Members of Congress have a bad habit of ignoring the devastation brought by gun violence and have blocked every single Democratic effort to enact reasonable reform measures. On this solemn anniversary, it is my hope that all Americans reflect on what we can do to end gun violence and how we can get there together.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.26.2018	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in honor of Ms. Evangelina Mendiola for winning this year’s Angels in Adoption Award. Hastings nominated Ms. Mendiola for the award, which is given annually by the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute’s (CCAI) Angels in Adoption Program: “I was so pleased to nominate Evangelina Mendiola for the 2018 Angels in Adoption Award and am elated to see her selected as an honoree. In addition to regularly opening her home and heart as a caring foster parent, Evangelina is currently in the process of adopting her fifth child. She certainly stands out in our community for her stalwart commitment to the welfare of children. “Evangelina has gone above and beyond to improve the lives of children in need of a permanent, loving home. I commend her inspiring dedication to the welfare of children, and wish her the very best as she continues to make the dream of a family a reality for the children she has given a warm and loving home.” ABOUT: Founded in 2001, Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI) is a nonprofit organization with the vision that every child should know the love and support of a caring family. Every year, CCAI’s Angels in Adoption™ Program selects a small group of outstanding individuals, families, or organizations across the nation that have made extraordinary contributions on behalf of children in need of families. For more information on Angels in Adoption, please visit: www.angelsinadoption.org. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings represents Florida’s 20th district, and serves as a Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida delegation. ###
09.12.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on passage of H.R.6720, the Dog and Cat Meat Trade Prohibition Act, which was approved by the House of Representatives this afternoon. (Please find a copy of the legislation attached): “The House of Representatives has voted to unify animal cruelty laws across the country, which would prohibit the slaughter of dogs and cats for human consumption. I am proud to have championed this effort in Congress to explicitly ban the killing and consumption dogs and cats across the United States, and am greatly appreciative of my friend and colleague Congressman Buchanan for taking the Dog and Cat Meat Trade Prohibition Act across the finish line today. As the House of Representatives also calls for the end of the dog and cat meat trade globally, it is important to that we hold ourselves to the same standards we wish to see in others. H.R.6720 makes that commitment, and I urge the Senate to take up this important bill without delay,” said Hastings. “More than half the households in America have a dog or cat as part of their family,” Congressman Vern Buchanan said. “We should send a clear message that slaughtering these beloved animals for food is unacceptable and will be punished.” BACKGROUND: H.R.6720 is a modified version of H.R.1406, which was originally introduced by Hastings, as well as Representatives Vern Buchanan (R-FL), David Trott (R-MI) and Brendan Boyle (D-PA) on March 7, 2017. The legislation, which has 246 cosponsors and broad bipartisan support in the House of Representatives, amends the Animal Welfare Act to prohibit people from knowingly slaughtering a dog or cat for human consumption. In addition, the bill prohibits people from knowingly transporting, possessing, buying, selling, or donating: (1) a dog or cat to be slaughtered for human consumption, or (2) dog or cat parts for human consumption, setting a maximum fine of $5,000 for violations. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation ###
09.12.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the passage of H.Res.401, a resolution urging all nations to outlaw the dog and cat meat trade and to enforce existing laws against such trade. Hastings introduced the resolution on June 22, 2017 with Congressman Vern Buchanan (R-FL). The resolution garnered broad bipartisan support with 152 cosponsors. (Please find a copy of the resolution attached): “Passage of H.Res.401 puts the U.S. House of Representatives on record opposing the dog and cat meat trade across the globe. This illicit trade is often associated with disturbing acts of animal cruelty and the inhumane slaughter of tens of millions of dogs and cats every year. Passage of this resolution was a culmination of years of hard work and dedication. From the bottom of my heart, I want to thank the thousands of activists across the country and around the globe for their tireless efforts. So many invested their own time and resources into getting this measure to the floor for a vote. They have never wavered in their commitment in the fight against the global dog and cat meat trade. I am proud to have championed this effort, which sends a strong signal to the world that the welfare of animals must be taken seriously. Today, we have moved one step closer to hopefully ending this horrific practice once and for all,” said Hastings. “The United States should be a leader against this inhumane and unsafe industry,” Buchanan said. BACKGROUND: H.Res.401 calls for an end to the dog and cat meat trade on cruelty and public health grounds, urges all nations to outlaw the dog and cat meat trade and enforce existing laws against such trade, and affirms the commitment of the United States to the protection of animals and to advancing the progress of animal protection around the world. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation ###
09.03.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in observance of Labor Day: “This Labor Day, we honor the hardworking men and women who make this country great. America’s cities and heartland have been built on the backs of workers, from its skyscrapers to its silos. Every day, hundreds of millions of laborers work towards the goal of supporting their families and making this country better. “I am proud to represent a state with the fourth largest economy in the nation. Florida has a GDP of close to a billion dollars, nearly that of the entire country of Mexico. We export to the rest of the world millions of dollars of fresh fruit, aircraft, electronics and other goods every single day. But we should also not forget that the rights of workers must be protected now more than ever, as the right to unionize and collectively bargain for wage growth are under attack. To all of the workers in Florida, know that I will continue to fight for these rights on your behalf. “Congress will reconvene after Labor Day with many issues left to address, including job creation and funding the government past September. Democrats have put forth A Better Deal, which would create good-paying jobs for American workers and put an end to Republicans’ $100 billion unfunded tax cut for the wealthy. These are necessary changes that will only make our country stronger, and I look forward to working in Congress to advocate for their passage. Today, I encourage everyone to reflect on the work that has built our great nation, and the work that we have yet to do." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.30.2018	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), along with Representatives Ted Deutch (D-FL), Lois Frankel (D-FL), Brian J. Mast (R-FL), and Senators Bill Nelson (D-FL) and Marco Rubio (R-FL) sent the following letter to the Secretary of the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), Ben Carson expressing their concern for the current state of disrepair stemming from years of neglect at the Stonybrook Apartments in the City of Riviera Beach. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter): August 30, 2018 The Honorable Ben Carson Secretary Department of Housing and Urban Development 451 7th Street S.W. Washington, DC 20410 Dear Secretary Carson: On behalf of the residents of the Global Ministries Foundation (GMF) owned properties, we write to express concern for the current state of disrepair stemming from years of neglect. Tenants have come to our offices with reports of leaking ceilings and water pipes, exposed wires, asbestos, and toxic black mold that poses an immediate health and safety risk. These slum-like conditions have made some of the GMF complexes throughout Florida virtually uninhabitable and have rendered dozens of units at Stonybrook, a 260-unit complex occupied predominantly by low-income, African American residents, “unfit for human occupancy” by the City of Riviera Beach. While we understand that GMF is expected to finalize the sale of these properties to Millennia Housing Management, Ltd., and that many of the structural repairs are expected to be completed in the near future, we are concerned with the length of time families will be forced to wait, in terrible conditions, for these repairs to be made. With this in mind, we request the Department of Housing and Urban Development to continue to work with the GMF properties and swiftly approve requests to access Section 8 Pass-Through Leases. This will help to ensure tenants of these dilapidated complexes will have access to safe and sanitary temporary housing until necessary repairs are made. Doing so will protect tenants from health and safety risks during this transition period while not dismantling tenant access to federal housing assistance. We appreciate your commitment to providing safe and affordable housing options for Florida’s low-income families and look forward to working with you on this important issue. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Bill Nelson United States Senator Marco Rubio United States Senator Lois Frankel Member of Congress Ted Deutch Member of Congress Brian J. Mast Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.30.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letters to Dr. Donald E. Fennoy II, Superintendent of Palm Beach County Public Schools, and Robert Runcie, Superintendent of Broward County Public Schools, urging them to consider the importance of teaching students to be vigilant of the growing threat of trafficking in our community. Joining Hastings in sending the letters included: Representatives Frederica S. Wilson (D-FL), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Lois Frankel (D-FL), and Ted Deutch (D-FL). (Please find below and attached copies of the letters): August 29, 2018 Dr. Donald E. Fennoy II Superintendent School District of Palm Beach County Fulton-Holland Educational Services Center 3300 Forest Hill Boulevard West Palm Beach, FL 33406 Dear Superintendent Fennoy: We last wrote your predecessor, Superintendent Robert Avossa, in May 2017, urging him to incorporate human trafficking education into the Palm Beach School System curriculum. We write today to urge you to consider the importance of teaching students to be vigilant of the threats posed by the growing threat of trafficking in our community. We commend you for your commitment to the education of K-12 students in our communities. We know you have worked very hard since assuming the role of Superintendent to provide nurturing and safe spaces to learn, which is critical for early education. Given the serious nature of trafficking in persons (TIP), we believe that more must be done to educate students, families, and faculty of the dangers and signs of trafficking, and the resources available for combatting this modern-day form of slavery. As you know, traffickers use force, fraud, or coercion to control victims and subject them to compelled labor or commercial sex acts. According to the International Labour Organization, an organization active in the global fight to eradicate modern slavery, there are 40.3 million victims of TIP worldwide. One in four of these victims of modern slavery are children. Within the United States, Florida has the third highest rate of TIP, and Palm Beach County ranks third for in-state TIP incidences. Many child victims of TIP are students in the public school system. A 2015 Department of Justice funded study of domestic sex trafficking of minors reported a median age of entry into prostitution of 15 years old. School administrators, staff, and students need to be aware that these reprehensible crimes are taking place right in our community, and that no school is immune from traffickers. Furthermore, educators and school personnel are well positioned to help identify and report suspected abuse and instances of trafficking. With appropriate training in the risk-factors, warning signs, recruitment, and methods for identifying trafficking, school faculty can save lives by recognizing the signs and intervening to connect students to services. As we are sure you will agree, it is of the upmost importance that we do more to prevent trafficking in our communities. We ask that you join us in moving the discussion forward on how we can best address this critically important issue. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Frederica S. Wilson Member of Congress Debbie Wasserman Schultz Member of Congress Lois Frankel Member of Congress Ted Deutch Member of Congress August 29, 2018 Robert W. Runcie Superintendent Broward County Public Schools 600 SE Third Ave Ft. Lauderdale, FL 33301 Dear Superintendent Runcie: We last wrote you in May 2017, urging you to incorporate human trafficking education into the Palm Beach School System curriculum. We write today to again urge you to consider the importance of teaching students to be vigilant of the threats posed by the growing threat of trafficking in our community. We commend you for your commitment to the education of K-12 students in our communities. We know you have worked very hard to provide nurturing and safe spaces to learn, which is critical for early education. While we were pleased to see a section on Human Trafficking on the Broward County Public Schools website, in addition to the noting of January 11th as Human Trafficking Awareness Day on the Diversity, Prevention and Intervention school calendar, we urge you to further incorporate human trafficking education into the curriculums of the Broward County Public Schools systems. Given the serious nature of trafficking in persons (TIP), we believe that more must be done to educate students, families, and faculty of the dangers and signs of trafficking, and the resources available for combatting this modern-day form of slavery. As you know, traffickers use force, fraud, or coercion to control victims and subject them to compelled labor or commercial sex acts. According to the International Labour Organization, an organization active in the global fight to eradicate modern slavery, there are 40.3 million victims of TIP worldwide. One in four of these victims of modern slavery are children. Within the United States, Florida has the third highest rate of TIP, and Broward County ranks first for in-state TIP incidences. Many child victims of TIP are students in the public school system. A 2015 Department of Justice funded study of domestic sex trafficking of minors reported a median age of entry into prostitution of 15 years old. School administrators, staff, and students need to be aware that these reprehensible crimes are taking place right in our community, and that no school is immune from traffickers. Furthermore, educators and school personnel are well positioned to help identify and report suspected abuse and instances of trafficking. With appropriate training in the risk-factors, warning signs, recruitment, and methods for identifying trafficking, school faculty can save lives by recognizing the signs and intervening to connect students to services. As we are sure you will agree, it is of the upmost importance that we do more to prevent trafficking in our communities. We ask that you join us in moving the discussion forward on how we can best address this critically important issue. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Frederica S. Wilson Member of Congress Debbie Wasserman Schultz Member of Congress Lois Frankel Member of Congress Ted Deutch Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.26.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) issued the following statement on the passing of Senator John McCain: “I was so incredibly saddened to hear the news of Senator John McCain’s passing. He was a classic Patriot and served our nation with honor and distinction. May his family find the peace that they need in this difficult time, and know that his legacy will forever endure. “Throughout Senator McCain’s years of distinguished service, we all saw firsthand his integrity, humility, courage and grace. “My thoughts and prayers are with his entire family. “Senator McCain inspired a nation and will be dearly missed." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.20.2018	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after touring transportation and infrastructure improvement projects prioritized by the Broward Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO): “As our region prepares for the future, we need to continue making our streets safer and more easily travelled. The project locations I visited today showcase Broward’s long-term vision for making our roads more accessible to bicyclists and pedestrians as part of an important initiative to connect 300 miles of streets with new bike lanes, sidewalks, crossings, and lighting. Our residents should know that they have a great team working tirelessly to make Broward a better place for everyone who lives or visits here. I am pleased to work closely with the MPO to ensure the needs of our county are met and supported by federal resources whenever possible,” said Hastings. ”I want to thank Congressman Hastings for touring these important transportation projects in his District,” said MPO Executive Director Greg Stuart. “Rep. Hastings has been a strong advocate for increasing transportation funding in Washington and we appreciate his hard work and engagement on transportation and infrastructure issues.” Hastings with (left to right) Sunrise Vice-Mayor Larry Sofield, Pompano Beach CRA Director Nguyen Tran, Peggy Castano (Lauderdale Lakes), James Cromar (MPO), Lauderdale Lakes Mayor Hazelle Rogers, MPO Executive Director Greg Stuart, Lauderdale Lakes Commissioner Beverly Williams, Peter Gies (MPO), Pompano Beach City Manager Greg Harrison, MPO Board Chair Richard Blattner, myself, and Sunrise City Manager Richard Salamon Background: The MPO currently has programed $5.21 billion dollars’ worth of projects in Broward County, including projects that Hastings helped secure funding for. All of the projects are part of the Broward MPO’s Complete Streets Initiative. The goal of Complete Streets is to create a network of bicycle and sidewalk facilities in order to safely connect destinations and allow residents to safely and efficiently reach their destination. The tour included visits to: The Nob Hill Soccer Club Park/Sunset Strip Project – The Sunset Strip project was a $3.6 million dollar project funded entirely with federal funds. Completed earlier this year, a 4.4 mile segment of Sunset Strip was transformed from a four-lane road to a two-lane road with buffered bike lanes and wider sidewalks that enhance mobility and provide additional safety benefits for residents. This project is complete and open to traffic. NW 31st Avenue/MLK Avenue Project – The 31st Avenue project is a $10.9 million dollar project. The project will add five-foot bike lanes in each direction and narrow lane width to promote both vehicle and bicycle improvements. The first 6.5 mile segment, running from Riverland Road to Commercial Boulevard, is currently under construction, and was funded entirely with federal funds programmed by the Broward MPO. The second segment, approximately 1.7 miles, runs from Commercial Boulevard to McNab Road, and was a project awarded as part of the MPO’s 2016 TIGER Grant application. Construction is expected to begin in 2020. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. Project – The Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. project totals $7.3 million and is funded in part by a 2016 TIGER Grant award (approximately $3.8 million (is funded at the federal level.). The one-mile project will add seven-foot buffered bike lanes in each direction, reconstruct sidewalks to ensure they meet ADA standards, add lighting, and improve drainage. Construction is expected to begin in 2020. Additional Point of Contact at the Broward MPO: Daniel Knickelbein, knickelbeind@browardmpo.org Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.06.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking the anniversary of the Voting Rights Act: “The Voting Rights Act was enacted on the simple premise that every American should be able to vote, period. For too long, entrenched racist policies prevented African Americans and other racial minorities from casting their ballots across the country. The Voting Rights Act changed that by establishing new protections for minority voters nationwide. “More than half a century later, our country has regrettably slid backwards in the fight to ensure access to the ballot box. The promise of equality at the voting booth has been supplanted by efforts to suppress minority votes through arbitrary requirements that disproportionately affect African Americans and other minorities. The Supreme Court irresponsibly threw out a key provision of the Voting Rights Act in 2013, and Republicans continue to block any effort to reinstate updated provisions as urged by the Court. In recent years, the Republican voter suppression playbook has been in full swing in states nationwide, eliminating same-day registration, reducing early voting, targeting Sunday voting, doing away with pre-registration, fighting online voter registration and passing restrictive voter identification laws. “We must make it easier to vote in America, not harder. Restrictive voting laws only serve to disenfranchise minority voters, and we must call out this shameful trend for what it is. “Today, as our country celebrates the anniversary of the Voting Rights Act, I reaffirm my commitment to protecting all Americans at the polls. I will continue to advocate for reforms to our electoral process that benefit – not suppress – the American electorate." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.03.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) will be a guest speaker at the annual FoundCare, Inc. Back-To-School Community Health Fair. FoundCare provides quality healthcare to the Palm Beach County community by offering healthcare and social services to individuals and families regardless of their insurance coverage or ability to pay. Services include pediatric and adult primary care, chronic disease management, behavioral health services, dentistry, laboratory services and X-rays, and an on-site pharmacy. The Health Fair will be held on Tuesday, August 7, 2018 at 1:00 PM. The event will be held at FoundCare’s West Palm Beach Health Center facility, located at 2330 South Congress Avenue in West Palm Beach. DETAILS: WHO: Congressman Alcee L. Hastings WHAT: Guest Speaker at the annual FoundCare, Inc. Back-To-School Community Health Fair WHEN: Tuesday, August 7, 2018 at 1:00 PM WHERE: FoundCare, Inc. West Palm Beach Health Center 2330 South Congress Avenue West Palm Beach, Florida Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.03.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), along with Congressmen Vern Buchanan (R-FL), Dave A. Trott (R-MI), and Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA) sent the following letter to Chairmen K. Michael Conaway and Pat Roberts, and Ranking Members Collin C. Peterson and Debbie Stabenow of the 2018 Farm Bill Conference Committee. The letter urges the Conference Committee to retain legislation prohibiting the slaughter of dogs and cats for the purpose of human consumption in the United States, a practice that is still legal in 44 states. On March 3, 2017, Hastings introduced H.R. 1406, the Dog and Cat Meat Trade Prohibition Act of 2017. Language was included in both the 2018 House and Senate Farm Bills. Since its introduction, H.R. 1406 has garnered the bipartisan support of 245 co-sponsors. (Please find attached and below a copy of the letter): August 2, 2018 The Honorable K. Michael Conaway Chairman House Agriculture Committee 1301 Longworth House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Pat Roberts Chairman Senate Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry Committee 328A Russell Senate Office Building Washington, DC 20510 The Honorable Collin C. Peterson Ranking Member House Agriculture Committee 1301 Longworth House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Debbie Stabenow Ranking Member Senate Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry Committee 328A Russell Senate Office Building Washington, DC 20510 Dear Chairmen Conaway and Roberts and Ranking Members Peterson and Stabenow: As you prepare to go to conference on H.R.2/S.3042, the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018, we would like to thank you for including language on the prohibition of the dog and cat meat trade in both versions of the bill. We write to urge you to retain this language in conference. As you may know, we introduced H.R.1406, the Dog and Cat Meat Trade Prohibition Act of 2017 on March 7, 2017. Since its introduction, H.R.1406 has garnered the bipartisan support of 245 co-sponsors. While the slaughter of dogs and cats for consumption is not commonplace in the United States, it is not explicitly prohibited in federal law. Unbelievably, it is still legal to slaughter dogs and cats for the purpose of human consumption in 44 states across the country. This important legislation will prohibit the slaughter and trade of dogs and cats for human consumption, and provide penalties to ensure that individuals involved in the dog or cat meat trade are held accountable. Dogs and cats play a vital role in the collective experience of Americans and deserve protection and compassion. In the United States, dogs and cats are owned for companionship, recreation, show, and sport, not for human consumption. It is long overdue that we explicitly ban the killing and consumption of these animals. We thank you again for including this language of the ban on the dog and cat meat trade, and strongly urge you to retain this language in the final version of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018. Thank you very much for your time and attention to our request. We stand ready to do all that we can to assist. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Vern Buchanan Member of Congress Dave A. Trott Member of Congress Brendan F. Boyle Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.30.2018	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letter to Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi, urging her to immediately move for injunctive relief in federal court to prevent the publication of electronic plans for 3-D Printed Guns in Florida (Please find attached and below a copy of the letter): July 30, 2018 Ms. Pam Bondi Attorney General Office of Attorney General State of Florida The Capitol PL-01 Tallahassee, FL 32399-1050 Dear Attorney General Bondi: I write to bring to your attention an important and timely matter. As soon as Wednesday, August 1, 2018, the U.S. Department of State may allow online, the posting of electronic files that contain the requisite code that will allow individuals to produce untraceable firearms. These firearms will be made of plastic and will not contain any serial code. Due to the undeniable danger posed by this development, I respectfully request that you immediately move for injunctive relief in federal court to stop the publication of these electronic files. As you may know, the upcoming publication of the code that will allow anyone to print 3-D weapons at home is the result of a recent settlement in the case of Defense Distributed v. United States Department of State. In reversing years of precedent, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has, in allowing for the publication of these electronic files, capitulated to the head of Defense Distributed, a self-described anarchist who has stated a desired intention to defend the publication of these codes by violent means. The irreparable harm posed by the publication of these codes is unquestionable. Once the codes are published online, Pandora’s Box will have been opened and the ability to rectify the situation via legal remedy will be negligible at best. States like Florida must be given an opportunity to entertain legislation that regulates 3-D weapons before our state is awash in these untraceable weapons of war. Injunctive relief is also appropriate in the current situation because the balance of hardships quite clearly tip in your favor as Florida’s chief legal officer. The wide-spread printing of do-it-yourself guns will only embolden those people that Florida’s brave police officers work tirelessly to protect us from – terrorists, violent felons, and domestic abusers. The hardships for these officers and, by extension you, are two-fold: First, as noted above, these do-it-yourself weapons are made of plastic and therefore, unlikely to be detected by any metal detector making it exponentially difficult for law enforcement to ensure that guns are not brought into restricted areas under Florida law including courthouses, polling stations, and prisons. Second, the individuals who will make these weapons will not be licensed manufacturers and for that reason will not be subject to serialization requirements. Florida’s law enforcement officers use serial numbers on firearms used in crimes to start their investigations. These serial numbers allow the officers to trace firearms to their first retail purchaser using this information to further investigate, and ultimately solve, crimes. Allowing non-serialized firearms to be easily created at home will needlessly undermine our law enforcement officers’ ability to successfully investigate crimes. Finally, the public interest served through injunctive relief being granted in the current situation is clear. The citizens of Florida have an obvious right in the enforcement of their laws, both at the state level and federal level. The publication of code that will make it easy to print untraceable firearms – firearms used by terrorists, violent felons, and domestic abusers, clearly undermines the public interest in being safe from violent crime. I thank you for your timely consideration of this request and look forward to your response. Should you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact my office at 202-225-1313. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.30.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on 2018 World Day against Trafficking in Persons: “I join with so many around the world in observing United Nations’ World Day against Trafficking in Persons today. Approximately twenty one million people are victims of trafficking each year, and three quarters of these victims are women and girls. Often, they are lured into this illicit multi-billion dollar industry under false premises or lies and subjected to forced labor and sexual exploitation. “While the most vulnerable children come from regions of the world where there are ongoing humanitarian crises, the United States is one of the top destinations in the world for trafficked victims. Centers of tourism, including Florida, are major destinations for human trafficking victims – many of whom come from our own communities and schools. Florida now has the third highest rate of trafficking in the country, and Broward and Palm Beach Counties rank 1st and 4th respectively for in-state incidences. “Our region may be a destination for trafficking victims, but it is also a place where heroes fight daily against this human tragedy. I proudly support those in our community who work tirelessly to combat trafficking. People like Mr. Roger DeHart, a devoted public servant who used his vacation time to walk from the Broward County Courthouse to the U.S. Capitol to raise awareness of trafficking earlier this year showcase the power that individuals have in pushing back against trafficking. Others serving on our local task forces and anti-trafficking coalitions work day and night to rescue victims and push back against traffickers. This World Day against Trafficking in Persons let us all work to bring an end to this epidemic of human-caused suffering.” Background As Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida delegation, Congressman Alcee. L Hastings has been a strong proponent for anti-trafficking efforts in Florida and across the globe. Earlier this year, he joined with other members of Congress in advocating for additional resources for combatting trafficking. He is also a cosponsor of multiple pieces of legislation regarding trafficking, including: H.R. 1865, the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act of 2017, H.R. 53, the CATCH Traffickers Act of 2017, H.R. 2664, the Enhancing Detection of Human Trafficking Act, H.R. 3304, the Human Trafficking Accountability Act, and H.R. 466, the Sex Trafficking Demand Reduction Act. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings represents Florida’s 20th district, and serves as a Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida delegation. ###
07.26.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the passing of Janet Burnett: “I was deeply saddened to learn of the passing of Janet Burnett. Janet was a great leader in Florida Democratic politics. She not only led the Broward Democratic Black Caucus, but was also a fixture at meetings and rallies, and amongst other activities throughout Broward County. Janet was someone that you could always count on to stand up for fundamental democratic principles and what was right for the community. She spoke her mind and was a real force to be reckoned with. “Janet was a shining example to all who knew her. She leaves behind a legacy of impeccable service and invaluable leadership. She will be greatly missed. My heart goes out to Janet’s family, her children Michelle, Marlon, and Kimani, and her grandchildren Kimani, Jr., and Michael during this time of great sadness.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.19.2018	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) led a letter with his Co-Chair of the Florida Congressional Delegation, Congressman Vern Buchanan (R-FL), urging House Leadership to bring S. 1057, the Harmful Algal Bloom and Hypoxia Research and Control Amendments Act of 2017, to the house floor for a vote without delay. This measure, which passed the Senate by voice vote, would take critical steps toward safeguarding the health of Florida’s coastal economies and ecosystems against harmful algal blooms. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter): July 19, 2018 The Honorable Paul Ryan Speaker U.S. House of Representatives H-232, the Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Kevin McCarthy House Majority Leader U.S. House of Representatives H-107, the Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Speaker Ryan and Majority Leader McCarthy: We write regarding S. 1057, the Harmful Algal Bloom and Hypoxia Research and Control Amendments Act of 2017. We respectfully ask that you bring this bill to the floor for a vote without delay. S. 1057, an important bipartisan bill, passed the Senate by Voice Vote on September 26, 2017. This bill would reauthorize the Harmful Algal Bloom and Hypoxia Research and Control Act of 1998 (HABHRCA), set to expire in August, from fiscal year (FY) 2018 through FY 2023. The measure would build on previous authorizations by reauthorizing the Harmful Algal Bloom Federal Interagency Task Force and formally adding the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to the task force; granting the federal government the authority to declare severe algal blooms or hypoxic events as events of national significance, allowing states and localities access to disaster-like funding; and permitting private donations to be used to fund recovery for events of national significance. For the third time in five years, harmful algal blooms in Lake Okeechobee serve as a major cause for health and economic concerns for coastal communities on the St. Lucie River, Indian River Lagoon, and the Caloosahatchee River and Estuary. Last month, the toxic blue-green algae began to spread across Lake Okeechobee, and now covers about 90 percent of the Lake. The foul bloom has since spread to the St. Lucie River and to the Caloosahatchee River, prompting Governor Rick Scott (R-FL) to declare a state of emergency for seven Florida counties – Glades, Hendry, Lee, Martin, Okeechobee, Palm Beach, and St. Lucie – on Monday, July 9, 2018. For nearly two decades, the HABHRCA program has served as the federal government’s research and response framework for harmful algal blooms. S. 1057 would take critical steps toward safeguarding the health of Florida’s and our nation’s coastal ecosystems and economies, and would do a great deal in protecting Lake Okeechobee and coastal waterways from this toxic algae. We urge you to bring S. 1057 to the floor, so that Congress can help protect communities against environmental, economic, and public health risks caused by harmful algal blooms. Thank you for your time and consideration of this request. We look forward to following up with both of you in person to discuss, and stand ready to do all that we can to assist. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Vern Buchanan Member of Congress
07.18.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in recognition of Nelson Mandela International Day 2018, which also marks Nelson Mandela’s 100th birthday: “In South Africa, they have a term, Ubuntu, which means ‘I am because we are.’ The philosophy of Ubuntu, an interconnected and shared humanity across the globe is something that Nelson Mandela stressed every day of his life. As we commemorate Nelson Mandela International Day, we are encouraged to reflect on this shared humanity and remember the legacy of Nelson Mandela around the world. “A commanding advocate for equal rights and opportunities, Nelson Mandela led the charge against institutional racism and discrimination in South Africa, fighting apartheid and fostering an era of peace and reconciliation. Truly, the name Nelson Mandela has become synonymous with peace, justice, and the most steadfast perseverance. “I am a proud original co-sponsor of H.Res.455, introduced by my colleague Congressman John Lewis, urging all Americans to reflect on peace, tolerance, democracy, human rights, and reconciliation on this day. “Nelson Mandela believed that we are only people through other people, that community is one of the building blocks of society. More than 20 years after his release from prison and tenure as President of South Africa, Nelson Mandela’s wisdom, work, and legacy continues to inspire people across the globe.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.18.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement at a Rules Committee hearing blasting H.Con.Res.119, Expressing the sense of Congress that a carbon tax would be detrimental to the United States economy: “The anti-climate resolution H.Con.Res.119 is the latest example of Republicans burying their heads in the sand about climate change. Instead of considering legislation responsive to the needs of the American people, we are wasting our valuable, limited time expressing opposition to a hypothetical carbon tax that does not exist and has not been proposed in the 115th Congress. “Climate change remains an unnecessarily politically divisive topic in Congress. Rather than sitting down and coming together with realistic options for what our nation can do, the Republican Majority continues to block any conservation-related measure proposed by the Minority in order to cater to the whims of extreme voices within their party. I don’t understand how anyone can argue against protections for clean water, clean air, and preservation of the landscapes emblematic of our country. I can’t fathom how someone could do this and then turn around and claim to be pro-environment. “I live in South Florida. When I drive down A1A from Fort Lauderdale to Miami Beach, I see first-hand the effects of climate change, sea-level rise, and the resulting coastal erosion. When I speak on this issue I tell everyone listening that 50 years from now, none of the condos, hotels, or large scale development presently taking place in South Florida will be there anymore. Between developers and Mother Nature, I am betting on the water. “A few years ago while in Tromso, Norway, I saw something that I never imagined I would ever witness: I saw a polar bear drown. It’s a profound thing to see – an animal struggling with all its might to reach its young on an ice flow that had floated away, until it could struggle no longer and succumbed to its environment. This may sound like tear-jerky stuff, but when we start losing these things we ultimately lose ourselves. If we continue down this path and do not work together, we will lose our humanity. “It should be this institution that changes our course. We shouldn’t be pandering to those who really don’t understand the issue: it is our responsibility to undertake, and we must do so with the urgency it deserves. We have the ability in this great institution to come together; those who favor oil, those who favor coal, and the so-called ‘tree-huggers’ who favor things like renewable energy and environmentally conscious policies, to be real visionaries for sustainable environmental practices. We are not doing ourselves any service by offering up messaging legislation that stands no chance of becoming law – nor should it ever become law.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.17.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement after joining the Vietnam War Commemoration Program, which works to ensure that America’s Vietnam veterans are recognized, honored, and provided with the services they rightly deserve: “As a country, we recognize the service, sacrifice, and patriotism of our veterans. Veterans of the Vietnam War never got the recognition they deserved, but they are no less worthy. In fact, when I meet Vietnam veterans in my district and thank them for their service, I am often told that I am the first person to ever do so. This is unfortunate, yet it happens far too frequently. “I am pleased to announce today that I have partnered with the United States of America Vietnam War Commemoration, which was authorized by Congress in commemoration of the War’s 50th anniversary, to help ensure that Vietnam veterans are thanked and given the respect they deserve. Beginning this week, I will proudly display the Commemoration’s flag outside of my Washington, D.C. office to pay tribute to the Vietnam veterans and their families, and ensure that veterans of this conflict are honored appropriately.” Background: The Vietnam War Commemoration program was authorized by the 2008 National Defense Authorization Act, giving the Secretary of Defense authority to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Vietnam War through formal events and ceremonies. Through the Congressional Partnership Program, participating Members of Congress are authorized to present Vietnam Veteran Lapel Pins on behalf of the United States in honor of the veteran’s service. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.17.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after meeting with student ambassadors from the National Campaign to Stop Violence. During the meeting, students presented Hastings with a copy of the published writings of 330 middle school students from Palm Beach County on reducing youth violence: “Today, I had the opportunity to meet with students participating in the ‘Do the Write Thing’ Challenge Program. These students truly inspire me. There are so many things we must do to improve as a nation, and it gratifies me to know that young people are taking time and making personal commitments to address youth violence in our community. I am proud to represent such articulate students, who are standing up against youth violence and propelling a very important debate forward in our country.” Hastings Meets with Justin Hersh (Emerald Cove Middle School) and Anushka Scudder (Boca Raton Middle School) Hastings with Justin Hersh, Anushka Scudder, and their Principals, Dr. Eugina Feaman and Peter Slack Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.12.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the passing of Florida environmental activist, Nathaniel Reed: “It is with great sadness that I learned of the passing of Nathaniel Reed this afternoon. Nathaniel was a stellar supporter of national parks, a staunch environmental advocate, and co-author of the Endangered Species Act. Nathaniel was a powerhouse of Florida politics, but more than that, he was a dear friend and a mentor to me, as well as to countless others. “In a long career spent both in and out of government service, Nathaniel played a role in stopping construction of the world’s largest airport in Big Cypress Swamp, helped establish a national park in Biscayne Bay, and assisted in preserving more than 100 million acres of parks and wildlife refuges in Alaska. “During his six decades of activism, he was a tireless crusader for the environment and the Everglades. Nathaniel inspired generations of conservationists, and what he did for America’s River of Grass is immeasurable. “He is survived by his wife of 54 years, Alita, three children, Adrian, Nathaniel Jr. and Lia, and five grandchildren. I offer my thoughts and prayers to Alita, his family, and all who called Nathaniel a friend during this great time of sadness." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.12.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after his amendment to H.R.6237, the Matthew Young Pollard Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 2018 and 2019, was adopted by voice vote in the House of Representatives. H.R.6237 subsequently passed in the House of Representatives today by a vote of 363-54. “Expanding the intelligence community’s (IC) recruitment of minorities in rural and underserved regions of the United States is a common-sense step to building a stronger, more diversified workforce. Although we have seen improvement in some areas – for instance, an increase in minority hiring for Fiscal Year 2017 over that of Fiscal Year 2016 – we have also seen a disappointing decrease in the percentage of women hired over that same time period. I believe that we can do better in both metrics and I think one smart way of doing that is by getting agencies to broaden their searches geographically. This country’s strength is borne from its dedication to the rule of law, the belief that the best form of government is one that is of the people, by the people, and for the people, and from its diversity. It is time for our IC agencies to more fully commit to reaching all American people in an effort to let them know that inspiring and important work awaits them in the Intelligence Community,” said Hastings. Background: The Hastings Amendment directs the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, in consultation with the heads of other Intelligence Community agencies, to create and implement a plan to expand the IC’s recruitment efforts so that rural and underserved regions in the U.S. are more fully represented in these efforts. The amendment is intended to help IC agencies actively join forces in order to broaden their respective recruitment efforts, and by so doing, increase the diversity among their ranks. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.10.2018	Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Vern Buchanan (R-FL), Co-Chairs of the Florida Congressional Delegation, will hold a delegation meeting on the 2018 hurricane season. The meeting will take place on Thursday, July 12th at 8:30 AM in room 2253 of the Rayburn House Office Building, and is open to the public. The distinguished panel will include: Dr. Neil Jacobs Assistant Secretary of Commerce, Environmental Observation and Prediction, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Iliana M. Rentz Manager, Emergency Preparedness Power Delivery, Florida Power & Light Bill Johnson, RN Director, Palm Beach Co. Emergency Management Representative from Florida National Guard or Florida Department of Emergency Management (Invited) DETAILS: WHO: Representatives Alcee L. Hastings and Vern Buchanan WHAT: Florida Delegation Meeting on 2018 Hurricane Season WHEN: Thursday, July 12th at 8:30 AM WHERE: Room 2253 of the Rayburn House Office Building Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.09.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on President Donald John Trump’s nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court of the United States: “The nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court is President Trump’s latest shameful effort to further roll back the progress we have made on voting rights, workers’ rights, women’s rights, civil rights, clean air and water, gun control, healthcare, and so much more. We cannot take nominations to the Supreme Court lightly. We need a justice who will be truly independent and not bound by political promises and litmus tests. “Two years ago, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell intentionally left a vacancy on the Supreme Court for more than ten months in order to win a political victory. This unprecedented and disgraceful obstruction, followed by Senator McConnell’s unilateral change in Senate procedure to force through the nomination of Justice Gorsuch, called into question the Senate’s ability to effectively carry out its Constitutional responsibility to provide oversight of the Executive Branch’s judicial nominees. “I am particularly alarmed by President Trump’s support for overturning Roe v. Wade and eroding women’s access to healthcare. It has been 45 years since the Supreme Court ruled on Roe, yet the President has signaled that he will stop at nothing to turn back the clock on reproductive freedoms, even going so far as to say that women receiving abortions should be ‘punished’ regardless of the circumstance. A woman has the right to make her own decisions about her body – end of story. Judge Kavanaugh’s support for Congressional Republicans’ obsession with cutting off access to women’s healthcare is insulting, dangerous, and intrinsically disqualifying.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.04.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement in celebration of Independence Day: “Our nation was founded on the principle that each of us is bestowed with the right to liberty and happiness. Today, we celebrate those rights, and our nation’s ascendance as a global leader in the fight for equality and democracy. “As we celebrate with our families and communities, let us reflect on the sacrifices of previous generations – and the responsibilities required of each of us to ensure that we do not cede the hard fought victories of the past. Our country is great because each of us – no matter where we come from, what we look like, or how we worship – is equal under the law. We are first and foremost Americans. “This Independence Day, I will be thinking about how we can make our nation a more inclusive, fair, and diverse home for all. I encourage everyone to join me in reflecting on what makes our nation strong, and how we can work together to make it even stronger. Have a safe and happy Independence Day!” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.28.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement after his amendments to the H.R.6157, the Department of Defense (DOD) Appropriations Act, Fiscal Year 2019, were adopted by the House of Representatives: “I was pleased to offer a number of amendments to the FY19 Defense Appropriations Act that were adopted with bipartisan support this week. These amendments will direct millions of dollars to cybersecurity training and recruitment, and congressionally directed peer-reviewed breast cancer research,” said Congressman Hastings. Background: Hastings Amendment #4 allocates an additional $5 million for the training and retention of cybersecurity professionals within the Department of Defense. The amendment was co-sponsored by Congresswoman Jacky Rosen (D-NV) “We all understand the importance of prioritizing cybersecurity and the defense of cyberspace, because the challenges we face today will continue to grow. Actors half a world away are targeting our hospitals, banks, and financial networks – not to mention military installations. Attacks are getting more sophisticated, and they are happening every single day. We must ensure that the necessary resources for training the next generation of cybersecurity specialists are made available now – wherever they are needed. I am pleased to have worked with the Appropriations committee to bring this amendment to the floor,” further noted Hastings. Hastings Amendment #16 allocates an additional $5 million for the Congressionally Directed Peer-Reviewed Breast Cancer Research Program. The amendment was co-sponsored by Representatives Jim McGovern (D-MA), Ryan Costello (R-PA), and Peter King (R-NY). “Earlier this year, I worked with Representatives McGovern, Costello, and King to request ample funding for the DOD Peer-Reviewed Breast Cancer Research Program. This program is innovative and competitive, and is designed to fill gaps in medical research in areas that are traditionally underfunded. This year, an estimated 270,000 new cases of invasive breast cancer will be diagnosed in our country. The program is vital, and I am pleased to have worked with the Appropriations committee to ensure it has the highest amount of funding possible for the coming fiscal year,” concluded Hastings. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.27.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after the Supreme Court handed down a 5-4 decision in the case of Janus v. AFSCME Council 31: “Today, the Supreme Court overturned four decades of precedent. This decision will undermine the basic rights of more than 17 million public-sector workers, which will impact good paying jobs, wages, healthcare, retirement, and workplace conditions for hardworking Americans all across our nation. “The men and women of the labor movement are the backbone of our country. This blatant attack on unions is just another example of conservatives looking to hand out more tax cuts for the rich. I find this to be absolutely shameful! “I will never stop defending the right of our brothers and sisters in labor to defend their freedom to stand together and negotiate for fair working conditions.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.26.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the Supreme Court’s ruling in Trump v. Hawaii upholding the Trump Administration’s Muslim Ban: “Today’s ruling by the Supreme Court is an endorsement of intolerance. Religious freedom is a core American value. No person should be prevented from coming to our country because of his or her faith alone. “No matter how the President attempts to rewrite or repackage his Muslim Ban, the fact remains that he has repeatedly made bigoted and xenophobic statements about Muslims throughout his campaign and first year in office. We know where this immoral ban came from. The Supreme Court may have declared it constitutional by the thinnest of margins, yet it is just as immoral, discriminatory, and un-American as the day it was first announced. “The President does not seem to grasp how the Muslim Ban harms America. We gain nothing when we vilify refugees or asylum seekers fleeing from terrorism. We gain nothing when we arbitrarily keep families separated or deny entry to academics, researchers, and businesspersons. By banning Muslims, we play into the hands of extremists who seek to vilify our country, recruit, and radicalize new members. “The President’s Muslim Ban is a moral failure and a security risk. Regardless of today’s decision, the President should repeal this ban immediately.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.26.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement after the U.S. Supreme Court issued a 5-4 decision in National Institute of Family and Life Advocates v. Becerra: “It is deeply alarming to me that reproductive rights are still under attack in our country. Today’s ruling will harm women and further endanger their constitutional right to comprehensive reproductive healthcare services. “In February, I joined my colleagues in the Senate and House, led by Representatives Jerry Nadler and Judy Chu, in signing an Amicus Brief to support the respondents in NIFLA v. Becerra and uphold California’s Reproductive FACT Act. I believe the decision to continue or terminate a pregnancy should be between a woman, her family, and her doctor, based on her values and circumstances. This decision should absolutely be made free from pressure, misinformation, and coercion from so-called Crisis Pregnancy Centers. These centers, which operate without a medical license from the State, deceptively prey on vulnerable women and put public health at risk. “NIFLA v. Becerra is a dangerous erosion of women’s constitutional rights and a direct result of President Donald John Trump nominating Justice Neil Gorsuch, a vocally anti-choice judge, to the Supreme Court. We must continue to push back against the anti-choice efforts of this Administration and the Republican Majority. Women deserve the truth when making reproductive health decisions.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.22.2018	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) introduced a resolution honoring the Dillard Center for the Arts Jazz Ensemble for winning first place at the prestigious Essentially Ellington High School Jazz Band Competition on May 12, 2018 in New York City. Dillard’s Jazz ensemble is the only band from Broward County to ever compete in Essentially Ellington. The group joined the nation’s top 15 high school jazz bands in the competition. Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors of the resolution include: Reps. Ted Deutch (D-FL), Lois Frankel (D-FL), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), and Frederica S. Wilson (D-FL). (Please find attached a copy of the resolution): “As a long-time supporter of the arts, I could not be more proud of the musicians of the Dillard Center for the Arts Jazz Ensemble. These students continue the proud tradition of excellent musicianship at Dillard High School. I congratulate them all for taking first place at the Essentially Ellington Competition in New York City,” said Congressman Hastings. “Dillard is a shining example of what public schools can be for our children. We should continue to do everything possible in Congress to support youth arts education in public schooling.” “As a lifelong educator, I strongly support access to the arts for our youth,” said Congresswoman Frederica S. Wilson. “I congratulate the Dillard Center on this remarkable accomplishment and look forward to joining with my colleagues to continue promoting opportunities for artistic development in our public schools.” “The Dillard Center for the Arts Jazz Ensemble continues to be a shining example of what talented musicians can accomplish when they have the support of their entire community. I want to congratulate these student performers on this unforgettable achievement,” said Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman-Schultz. “As a musician, I know the hours of practice and studying that these students had to put in to master their instruments and music to become top in the nation,” said Congressman Ted Deutch. “But the young men and women of the Dillard jazz ensemble showed the country what incredible talent we have in South Florida. We are so proud of you for winning first place!” “As a lover of the arts, I congratulate the Dillard Jazz Ensemble and encourage them to keep shining,” said Congresswoman Lois Frankel. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.21.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement blasting House Republicans for blocking his amendment that would have created a pathway to citizenship for long-term Temporary Protected Status (TPS) holders. Hastings offered the amendment to both H.R. 4760 and H.R.6136. (Please attached a copy of the amendment): “Last night in the Rules Committee, I offered an amendment that would have provided a pathway to citizenship for certain long-term TPS holders. Not surprisingly in this historically closed Congress, my amendment was not made in order. “As we discuss the need for DREAMers to have a pathay to citizenship, which they must, I want to make sure that those who are in our country under TPS are not passed over and forgotten. These individuals are hardworking taxpayers, many of whom have U.S.-born children or U.S. citizen spouses, and they contribute to our economy and communities in myriad and dynamic ways. They work at our airports, in our service industries, in our health care sector, and on our construction sites. They are fathers, mothers, sisters, and brothers. They are members of our faith based communities. And every single one of them to a person hails from a country still recovering from natural disasters, internal violence, or both. “I will give you just one example, on January 12, 2010, Haiti was devastated by a 7.0 magnitude earthquake. One and a half million people were displaced, 300,000 buildings were destroyed, and eight years on, tens of thousands of people remain in camps waiting for the day when they can start to try to put their lives back together again. However, between the day that earthquake laid waste to much of Haiti and today, the Haitian people have suffered a cholera outbreak that to date has killed roughly ten thousand people and can be directly linked to the aftermath of the earthquake, and Hurricane Matthew. That hurricane was the first Category Four hurricane to hit Haiti in over half a century claiming one thousand lives and displacing more than 2 million people. “Haiti, quite simply, continues to climb out from the rubble of the earthquake, cholera outbreak, and Hurricane Matthew and we here in the United States have tried to help them do so, as we should. In its wisdom, the Trump Administration has decided to end TPS for Haiti and many other countries. Not only does this conclusion fly in the face of the facts as we know them, but it needlessly inflicts countless wounds on our communities, on families, and our economy – not to mention the economies of the countries which have been able to benefit in their respective recoveries from the remittances sent back home from those here under TPS. “Allowing those in our country who are here under TPS and who would like to become citizens the opportunity to do so is not only morally right, but it is the right thing to do for our communities and our economy.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.21.2018	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) hosted his annual Black and Jewish Members of Congress Breakfast, focused on the state of Black and Jewish relations in America and ways to improve interactions between these communities in the coming year. Hastings has hosted this event annually for the last sixteen years. Joining him as Honorary Co-Chairs of the event were Senator Cory Booker and Representatives Eliot Engel, John Lewis, Nita Lowey, Cedric Richmond, and Lee Zeldin. “We find ourselves in troubling times,” said Hastings. “Over the past year, many of the gains our communities have made have been eroded. Today, the majority of Americans consider racism to be a significant problem. Anti-Semitism is on the rise; discrimination is on the rise; prejudice is on the rise; and disproportionate violence continues to affect the Black community. It is against this backdrop that we came together today to consider the problems we face and asked, ‘where do we go from here?’ and ‘how do we get there together?’ I am proud to have prioritized these issues in the Congress and will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure these vital conversations continue.” Attending the event as Special Guests were Jonathan Greenblatt, CEO and National Director, Anti-Defamation League (ADL), Derrick Johnson, President and CEO, National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), and Hillary O. Shelton, Senior Vice President for Advocacy and Policy, NAACP. Garrett O’Brien and Yoni Mesfein, Student Leaders from Operation Understanding D.C., also participated in the roundtable discussion. Members of Congress in attendance at the breakfast included (34): Senator Benjamin Cardin and Representatives Alma Adams, Joyce Beatty, Eddie Bernice Johnson, Anthony Brown, David Cicilline, Yvette D. Clarke, Emanuel Cleaver, II, Stephen Cohen, Bonnie Watson Coleman, Danny K. Davis, Val Demings, Ted Deutch, Dwight Evans, Lois Frankel, Marcia Fudge, Shelia Jackson Lee, Hank Johnson, Robin Kelly, Brenda Lawrence, Alan Lowenthal, Nita Lowey, A. Donald McEachin, Gregory W. Meeks, Jerrold Nadler, Jamie Raskin, Jacky Rosen, Brad Schneider, Brad Sherman, Bennie Thompson, Marc Veasey, Maxine Waters, Frederica S. Wilson, and Lee Zeldin. “On this 54th anniversary of the murder of Mississippi voting rights activists Andrew Goodman, Mickey Schwerner, and James Chaney, we come together knowing that black-Jewish partnerships have a deep past and an essential future. In this time of increasing hate, violence, emboldened white supremacists, deep tribalism, and disturbing partisan divides, we must be able to count on each other. Coalitions are how we get things done. Together, we honor our shared struggles against prejudice, hatred, and discrimination, and this strengthens our ability to discuss best practices and ways to make progress together,” said Jonathan Greenblatt, CEO and National Director of the Anti-Defamation League (ADL). “During a time when those at the apex of power and influence are seeking to divide our nation, Congressman Hastings annual Black and Jewish Members of Congress Breakfast is more important than ever,” said NAACP President and CEO Derrick Johnson. “It’s important that our communities work together in unity against hate.” “We thank and commend Congressman Hastings and those who have worked so hard to support his vision, and strived to preserve and strengthen crucial ties between the African American and Jewish American Communities,” said Hilary O. Shelton, Director of the NAACP Washington Bureau and the Senior Vice President for Policy and Advocacy. “Looking back over the past 16 years of the alliance, we are grateful for his demonstrated recognition of the unique, yet similar challenges each community continues to face, struggle and address. We also greatly appreciate his recognition of the convergence of interest that manifest this powerful partnership that continues to be desperately needed. In essence, we understand that we are stronger together, and that we must defend one another as we would family that find ourselves under attack. We have a strong history together, and Congressman Hastings and others are to be congratulated and thanked for events like this which remind us that our future is brightest when we work together.” “Now, more than ever, Black and Jewish communities must stand united to fight racism, anti-Semitism and all forms of discrimination. Operation Understanding DC gives youth in the DMV the tools to address these challenges by teaching them history, training them to facilitate challenging conversations around race and privilege and spreading tikkun olam (repair the world), through their interactions and relationships,” said Yolanda Savage-Narva, Executive Director of Operation Understanding D.C. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.20.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the statement in observance of World Refugee Day: “UN World Refugee Day is observed every year on June 20th to emphasize the overwhelming rate of displacement across the globe. We mark World Refugee Day today knowing that more than 68.5 million people have been forced from their homes by war, persecution, or violence. Last year alone, more than 44,000 people were forced to flee their homes every single day. “Despite this overwhelming need, the United States has failed to meet its responsibilities to the international community. In admitting just 14,000 refugees so far this year, our country has continued to turn a blind eye to a global humanitarian emergency. The Trump Administration has withdrawn the United States from international agreements, damaging our standing across the globe and leaving millions of desperate women and children to fend for themselves. “Having visited numerous refugee camps, I can personally attest to the importance of offering protection to those who have been displaced. Rather than implementing abhorrent policies like family separation or arbitrarily capping the number of refugees admitted to our country, President Trump must reassure the world that the United States – a country whose story has been written by those fleeing oppression – will not abandon the world’s most vulnerable populations. We gain nothing from draconian immigration policies.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.20.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the 2018 Yulin Dog Meat Festival, which began today in the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region of China: “As the 2018 Yulin Dog Meat Festival begins, we must continue to shed light on the horrific treatment of animals subject to the dog and cat meat trade. I find it absolutely shameful that this festival and others like it still continue. “It is time for Congress to consider my resolution, H.Res.401, which urges all nations to outlaw the dog and cat meat trade and to enforce existing laws against such trade. This measure has been passed out of the House Foreign Affairs Committee favorably with the support of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle. By passing this resolution, we can reaffirm America’s commitment to the humane treatment of our most beloved companions. “I proudly stand with the millions of people across the globe and in China, who wish to see this festival come to an end once and for all. I also want to thank the countless activists who continue their tireless fight every single day in order to save and protect the voiceless. “I will never waiver in my commitment in working to end the brutal and inhumane treatment and consumption of dogs and cats. I sincerely hope that the House GOP leadership will stand with me, and bring my resolution to the floor without delay.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.19.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in observance of Juneteenth, which commemorates the day that the last slaves in the United States were set free: "Today, I join Americans across our nation in celebration of Juneteenth. This day commemorates the liberation of the last slaves in the United States after Union soldiers arrived to Galveston, Texas on June 19, 1865, over two years after President Abraham Lincoln signed the Emancipation Proclamation. This marked the end of institutional slavery and set the United States on a path towards equality and freedom for all. “As we reflect on the past 153 years, let us never forget the toils of persecution, discrimination, and the trailblazers who paved the way towards a more perfect union. African Americans have made remarkable progress across the nation and the world, and can feel immense pride in how far we have come. Although we have made great strides, our work is not complete. “On this day forward, let us recommit ourselves to the struggle for equality for all while breaking the chains of injustice that continues to infringe upon our communities. We must remain vigilant, united, and never grow weary in fighting to uphold our principles and values. In our communities, we must do more to support families, schools, and institutions to ensure their success for future generations to come. I hope that we will continue to be inspired by the joyous celebrations commemorating Juneteenth and the symbolism it holds for us all.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.18.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), along with Senator Cory Booker and Representatives Eliot Engel, John Lewis, Nita M. Lowey, Cedric Richmond, and Lee Zeldin will host an important breakfast for Black and Jewish Members of Congress on Thursday, June 21st from 9:00 AM to 10:00 AM in room HVC-200 of the U.S. Capitol Visitors Center. The breakfast, which is held annually, will focus on the state of Black and Jewish relations and how to increase engagement between these two communities. Special guests at the event will include: Jonathan Greenblatt CEO and National Director of the Anti-Defamation League (ADL) Derrick Johnson President and CEO of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) (invited) Hillary O. Shelton Senior Vice President for Advocacy and Policy of the NAACP Students from Operation Understanding D.C. DETAILS: WHO: Congressman Alcee L. Hastings WHAT: Black & Jewish Members of Congress Breakfast WHEN: Thursday, June 21st at 9:00 AM WHERE: Room HVC-200 of the U.S. Capitol Visitors Center Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.15.2018	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) led a letter to the Department of Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen M. Nielsen and the General Services Administration (GSA) Administrator Emily W. Murphy, urging them to expeditiously resolve the concerning conditions at an Immigration & Customs Enforcement (ICE) branch office in Miramar, Florida. Joining Hastings as co-signers of the letter include: Senator Bill Nelson, Senator Marco Rubio, Representative Frederica Wilson, and Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter): June 15, 2018 The Honorable Kirstjen M. Nielsen Secretary U.S. Department of Homeland Security 245 Murray Lane, SW Washington, D.C. 20528 The Honorable Emily W. Murphy Administrator U.S. General Services Administration 1800 F Street, NW Washington, D.C. 20405 Dear Secretary Nielsen and Administrator Murphy: As Members of the Florida Delegation, we are following up on the concerning conditions at an Immigration & Customs Enforcement (ICE) branch office located at 2805 SW 145th Avenue in Miramar, Florida (Miramar ICE Facility). On February 27, 2018, we wrote to Administrator Murphy expressing our concerns with the operations at the Miramar ICE Facility, specifically noting that the programming and service changes at the location resulted in various parking and safety challenges, as well as humanitarian concerns – lack of shelter, water, and restroom availability for the 250-300 patrons standing in line outside for hours. While we have been working with ICE and General Services Administration (GSA) officials to secure an adjacent parking lot, as well as correct the other pressing issues at the Miramar ICE Facility – schedule reporting times, providing outside restrooms, and access to water and shelter – there have been no discernable changes on the ground. On May 31, 2018, ICE and GSA officials briefed Members of the Florida Delegation on their ongoing efforts, but failed to provide a timeline for when GSA can procure the adjacent parking lot, install a water fountain and provide cover to outside of the building. Separately, the City of Miramar is working with the private property owner to place temporary canopies outside. We hope that ICE and GSA will continue to work with the City to accomplish this goal. It is also our understanding that the Miramar ICE Facility is the only reporting office in the South Florida area for the non-detained, with the next closest located in Orlando, Florida. The patrons visiting the Miramar ICE Facility are travelling from counties well beyond the Palm Beach, Broward, and Miami-Dade area. Given South Florida’s immigrant population and the hundreds of patrons visiting the Miramar ICE Facility daily, we believe it is necessary to open an additional facility in the South Florida region. It is our understanding that there is a reporting facility located at 8860 Salrose Lane, Fort Myers, FL 33912, but that it is not open for public use. Given that it is summer in Florida with temperatures reaching into the high 80s and low 90s, and with Hurricane Season having begun, we urge you to resolve this issue expeditiously. We ask you to provide a timeline for securing the adjacent parking lot, installing a water fountain outside, putting up an awning outside the building, and providing greater access to restrooms. Additionally, we ask you to provide us with information for why the Fort Myers facility is not open for public use, and how Congress can assist in ensuring its opening. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. We look forward to your prompt response. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Bill Nelson United States Senator Marco Rubio United States Senator Debbie Wasserman Schultz Member of Congress Frederica Wilson Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.15.2018	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), along with Representatives Ted Deutch (D-FL), Lois Frankel (D-FL), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), and Frederica Wilson (D-FL), introduced a resolution honoring the City Commission of Lauderdale Lakes, Florida after it became the first city government to be comprised entirely of women of color (Please find attached a copy of the Resolution): “The residents Lauderdale Lakes wisely choose five women of color to head their City Commission,” said Congressman Hastings. “This is just the start of a trend that I believe will continue long into the future, with women and people of color increasingly being entrusted to hold the highest positions in their communities. I wish Mayor Hazelle Rogers, Vice Mayor Beverly Williams, and City Commissioners Sandra Davey, Gloria Lewis, and Veronica Edwards Phillips, many more prosperous years for the City under their leadership.” “By making history as the first city government of its size to be composed entirely of women of color, Lauderdale Lakes is setting an example for the rest of the nation to follow,” said Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz. “Residents of Lauderdale Lakes can feel confident that their city leaders will build a future where no one is left out or left behind.” “The residents of Lauderdale Lakes made history when they chose women of color to fill their City Commission. These minority city leaders are bringing new and diverse ideas to help their residents and businesses thrive,” said Congressman Ted Deutch. "Women of color have a proud and storied legacy of political engagement and activism in this nation. It is a privilege to recognize the five women who will head the Lauderdale Lakes City Commission. This is an historic achievement that sets an example for both women of color and communities across the United States. I am confident that they will serve Lauderdale Lakes with compassion, wisdom, and honor,” said Congresswoman Wilson. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.15.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement marking the 6th anniversary of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) initiative, which was established by President Obama on June 15, 2012: “When President Obama created the DACA Program six years ago, he recognized the injustice of deporting young people to countries they have never known. DACA recipients are Americans in every way, but citizenship. They have lived here and been educated here. They serve in our military and study in our universities. They are talented, passionate, and patriotic, and our country is stronger with them. “The about-face from President Donald John Trump’s Administration is an attack on American values. It is outrageous that the Republican Congress has embraced the President’s draconian immigration policies. We gain nothing by terrorizing immigrants who want nothing more than a safe place for their families to thrive. Arbitrarily breaking-up law-abiding families, separating children from their mothers, and closing the door to those fleeing for the lives goes against everything that makes our country great. “As we highlight the tremendous contribution DREAMers have made to our country, we must also remember the importance of those in our communities who are here under Temporary Protected Status (TPS). Over 300,000 individuals are in our country under TPS and come from, among other countries Haiti, Honduras, and Nepal. These countries have suffered, and continue to suffer, unbelievable hardship and cannot be expected to absorb tens of thousands of their citizens as they work to rebuild their respective countries. Our neighbors, friends, and family members who reside in the United States under TPS are, to a person, law abiding and tax paying people who make our communities stronger. To needlessly cancel these TPS designations, as the Trump Administration has done in recent months, is shameful and beneath the dignity of our country. “I have met so many of these individuals and they continue to inspire me with their dreams to contribute to this country as Americans. Rather than demonize them, we should lift them up. I vow to continue fighting for each of the individuals and their families.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.14.2018	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letter to Speaker of the House Paul Ryan and House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, urging them to bring H.Res.401 to the house floor for a vote without delay. The resolution, which was reported favorably by the House Foreign Affairs Committee on November 15, 2017, urges all nations to end the dog and cat meat trade, and highlights the inherent cruelty of annual events like the Yulin Dog Meat Festival, which is set to begin on June 21, 2018. (Please find attached and below a copy of the letter): June 14, 2018 The Honorable Paul Ryan Speaker U.S. House of Representatives H-232, the Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Kevin McCarthy House Majority Leader U.S. House of Representatives H-107, the Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Speaker Ryan and Majority Leader McCarthy: I write to urge you to schedule H.Res.401 for a vote without delay. As you know, I introduced this bipartisan resolution with Congressman Vern Buchanan (R-FL) in June 2017. It has since been reported favorably by the House Foreign Affairs Committee on November 15, 2017, with the support and co-sponsorship of Chairman Ed Royce (R-CA). H.Res.401 urges all nations to outlaw the dog and cat meat trade, which is responsible for extreme animal cruelty affecting tens of millions of dogs and cats every year. One festival that symbolizes the need for this resolution is the Yulin Dog Meat Festival, which celebrates the torture of animals prior to their slaughter, where dogs are often skinned or boiled alive. This festival, held annually in the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region of China, will begin on June 21, 2018. Once again, I respectfully ask that you expeditiously bring H.Res.401 to the floor for a vote. By passing this measure, Congress will send a strong signal to all nations that we will not stand by while the brutal and inhumane treatment and consumption of dog and cat meat continues. I look forward to following up with both of you in person to discuss in further detail, and stand ready to do all that I can to assist in moving this process forward. Thank you for your time and consideration of my request. With warm personal regards, I remain, Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.14.2018	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Fiscal Year 2018 Work Plan: The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers will boost funding for Florida Everglades’ restoration efforts this fiscal year by an extra $29 million, a funding commitment that was sought by Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and Alcee L. Hastings (FL-20). The Army Corps’ funding increase was included in its recently-released 2018 fiscal year Work Plan. The added backing amounts to a 38 percent increase over the initial $76.5 million funding amount sought in the President’s fiscal year 2018 budget request, bringing the overall Everglades restoration funding for this fiscal year to $105.4 million. Reps. Hastings and Wasserman Schultz have fought aggressively for additional funding, and applauded the Army Corps’ prioritization of the South Florida Ecosystem Restoration projects. “Committing these extra resources underscores the Army Corps’ commitment to Everglades restoration,” said Congressman Alcee L. Hastings, co-chairman of the Everglades Caucus. “South Florida depends on this ecosystem for so much, including drinking water and flood protection, so it’s good to see a larger investment being made to protect the well-being of our state. We need to continue prioritizing Everglades restoration efforts.” “Only strong federal funding can restore this vital and sensitive ecosystem, and the Army Corps’ latest funding priorities shows that commitment – one which must continue,” said Wasserman Schultz. “So much of South Florida’s quality of life depends on the Everglades, and we owe it to all Americans and future generations to make these restoration efforts a priority. I will continue to work closely with the Army Corps and Florida’s Congressional delegation to do just that.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.12.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking the one year anniversary of the Pulse Nightclub shooting: "Two years ago, 49 people were killed at the Pulse Nightclub in what was at the time the worst mass shooting in the history of the United States. Like so many others, I was devastated by this senseless attack on the LGBTQ community. “People from every walk of life across the United States condemned this horrific shooting, asking why we are powerless to prevent violence in our country. The House of Representatives held its usual moment of silence, and then went back to business as usual. “Despite all of the protests, all of the rallies, all of the listening sessions, and even a Congressional sit-in, the largest mass shooting in the history of our nation could not shake Republicans to break with the extreme voices in their party. To date, no new laws have been enacted and nothing has changed to prevent future tragedies like the one that occurred at Pulse. Even common-sense reforms like banning bump stocks and strengthening background checks have been adamantly opposed by the National Rifle Association (NRA) and their Republican allies in Congress. This cycle of violence will not stop until we have leaders willing to stand up to the gun industry. "On this solemn anniversary, I call on my colleagues in Congress, with particular regard to those who have stood in the way of common-sense gun reform in the past, to join me and other Democrats in advocating for smart gun control policies that will save American lives. I honor the memories of those who were killed, and reaffirm my commitment to combatting the proliferation of gun violence in America.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.12.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the summit in Singapore between President Donald John Trump and North Korean Dictator Kim Jong-un: “North Korea poses a significant risk to our national security and the security of our allies in the region and across the globe. While diplomacy is our best chance at staving off crisis on the Korean Peninsula, our efforts must be carried out through a united front with global leaders. That is not what happened in Singapore. “In meeting face-to-face with North Korean Dictator Kim Jong-un, President Trump legitimized a known criminal. In exchange for elevating Kim, the President asked for nothing and received nothing in return. This was political theater, plain and simple. “Our purpose must be clear: the complete and permanent denuclearization of North Korea. On this issue, there can be no middle-ground, and we are no closer to stabilizing the region today than we were before the summit. Rather, the President capitulated to Kim by ending joint military exercises, sidelining our South Korean and Japanese allies, and endangering the tens of thousands of American troops stationed in the region. “I am deeply alarmed that the joint statement issued by the President and Mr. Kim ignored the systemic human rights abuses that have occurred in North Korea since its founding and continue today on a daily basis. The Kim regime is responsible for the systematic imprisonment, murder, torture, rape, starvation, and enslavement of hundreds of thousands of people, and the death and imprisonment of American citizens. These are crimes against humanity – a fact that President Trump wantonly ignored while smiling for the cameras with his arm around the man responsible. “Finally, I strongly object to the manner in which the President departed the G-7 prior to arriving in Singapore. It is unconscionable that the President would spurn our greatest allies while cozying up to strongmen like Kim and Putin. There must be no light between us and Western leaders. The President’s disdain for those who have stood by our country for decades is a remarkable abdication of American exceptionalism that should concern every person in this country.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.08.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings joined Congressman Charlie Crist and Florida Democrats in calling on HUD Secretary Ben Carson to abandon his proposal to drastically increase rents on low-income Floridians (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter): June 7, 2018 The Honorable Ben Carson, Secretary United States Department of Housing and Urban Development RE: Urge reversal of Trump Administration proposal to triple rents on poorest Florida families Dear Secretary Carson: As members of the Congressional Delegation from Florida, we write with grave concerns about your plan that would dramatically increase rents on the poorest Floridians. This cruel proposal by your U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Making Affordable Housing Work Act, reflects a lack of compassion and understanding of affordable housing in our state. Among the misguided provisions, you propose tripling rents on those in severe poverty. According to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, that alone would result in the eviction of 1.7 million Americans, including nearly one million children. Further compounding this problem is the way the proposal recalculates affordability. Local experts say perhaps most concerning is a provision to eliminate income deductions for families who pay medical or child care expenses. Under this proposal the majority of families will be paying more, even though they are already having to make choices between buying medicine and feeding their children. By failing to adjust income for spending on basic necessities and child care, it unfairly targets single mothers with steep rent hikes. As primary caretakers and breadwinners, single mothers are already doing the work of two parents. They have earned our support. Instead, HUD is proposing unaffordable rent hikes and homelessness with no justification. At a time when 83 percent of the recently passed trillion-dollar tax bill is going to the top one percent of Americans, asking Congress to balance the budget on the backs of the most vulnerable is unconscionable. As representatives who care about our most vulnerable constituents, we stand prepared to work with you to pursue policies that would truly improve the state of affordable housing in Florida. As the economy continues to recover and more and more people move to Florida, even some middle-class families are finding housing unaffordable. We should continue to encourage development of new affordable units. In addition, we should be working together to make affordable housing accessible, specifically by reducing and ultimately eliminating waiting lists. For many of our neighbors, including struggling families, children, and seniors, the wait for rental assistance often stretches for years. We can more efficiently assist those in need by providing additional funding for cash-strapped public housing authorities and fully funding rental assistance programs to keep up with need. Finally, rather than imposing punishing work requirements, we should support those able to work with improved employment opportunities and skills training. We have a real housing squeeze in Florida and your rent-tripling proposal will make it worse for families across our state. We vow to vigorously oppose the Making Affordable Housing Work Act as drafted and urge you to reverse course on this proposal that would hurt our most vulnerable constituents. Sincerely, Charlie Crist Member of Congress Kathy Castor Member of Congress Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Debbie Wasserman Schultz Member of Congress Ted Deutch Member of Congress Frederica Wilson Member of Congress Lois Frankel Member of Congress Val Butler Demings Member of Congress Al Lawson Member of Congress Stephanie Murphy Member of Congress Darren Soto Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation ###
06.08.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after his amendment to H.R.5895, the Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, adding millions of dollars to cybersecurity of the electric power grid, was rejected by Republicans in the House: “Every aspect of daily life, from the use of cellphones, to functioning traffic lights, to the cooling of our homes during summer, relies on the electric power grid. While we have never been more dependent on electricity, our grid has never been as vulnerable as it is today. With the rise of nation-state supported computer hackers in countries like Russia, China, Iran and North Korea, the computers that control our power networks are increasingly seen as the most impactful targets for those who wish to do us harm. This is a security issue, and outages from attacks could have catastrophic consequences. I am disappointed that my amendment was rejected by House Republicans, but will continue to advocate for prioritizing cybersecurity and addressing this vulnerability.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation ###
06.07.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking Caribbean American Heritage Month: “This month, the United States honors our longstanding relationship with the nations of the Caribbean and celebrates the Caribbean-Americans who have embodied the American Dream through their talents and hard work. “Throughout history, Americans with Caribbean roots have shaped the development of our country within all facets of society – from sports to academia to architecture. Today, there are more than 4 million Caribbean Americans who live in the United States. Florida is home to the largest population of Caribbean-Americans in the country, and I am proud to represent a district with such a rich and diverse cultural identity. “As we mark National Caribbean-American Heritage month, I am pleased to recognize the many contributions that Caribbean-Americans have made in shaping and strengthening our country.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation ###
06.07.2018	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking LGBTQ Pride Month: “The month of June marks LGBTQ Pride Month and the 49th anniversary of the Stonewall Riots. I am proud to celebrate the LGBTQ community and those individuals who continue to promote equality. I have spent my career advocating for equal rights for all Americans, and I have a 100 percent pro-equality voting record regarding legislation affecting the LGBTQ community. “As we approach the second anniversary of the PULSE nightclub shooting, I will continue to fight for our LGBTQ friends. Members of this community are still denied equal opportunity and are often disregarded by the Trump administration and some of my Republican colleagues. We must ensure that we protect LGBTQ Americans as they pursue the ideals we all hold dear. “Throughout this Pride Month, we must recognize the progress we have made while acknowledging the steps we still must take toward a more inclusive and free society. This nation only truly thrives when every community within it is respected and given equal protection under the law. I am proud to stand with the LGBTQ community.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.01.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the 2018 hurricane season, which begins today: “Forecasters have predicted that this year’s hurricane season will again be above average. Given last year’s damaging storms, it is critical that all Floridians adequately prepare beforehand. “Last year, Broward and Palm Beach Counties were luckily spared from direct hits by large storms. However, this week, we learned that an estimated 4,600 Puerto Ricans lost their lives as a result of Hurricane Maria. This tragic figure is a stark reminder of the danger posed by hurricanes. “As we enter hurricane season, I will continue to work closely with federal, state, and local agencies to ensure that the necessary resources are available in the event of a hurricane affecting our region. “My office has once again prepared a list of resources for the benefit of my constituents and South Floridians, including a preparedness checklist, contact information for national and state-wide emergency hotlines, and locations of emergency shelters. This information can be found on my official website: www.alceehastings.house.gov. I urge everyone to take the necessary precautions to prepare ahead of time.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.28.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in observance of Memorial Day: “The America we cherish came with great sacrifice. As we observe Memorial Day, I join with all Americans in recognizing and honoring the men and women who gave their lives in service to our country. “I am proud to represent a state with the nation’s third largest veteran population. As we recognize the service of so many, we must recognize that the needs of the veterans community and their families continue to grow. We must keep our promise to this community, and support veterans and their families with the benefits and resources they rightfully earned. One homeless veteran is too many; one veteran without access to healthcare is too many; and one veteran unable to pursue his or her education is one too many." “This Memorial Day, I proudly honor the service members and veterans that keep our country strong." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.24.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after the House of Representatives adopted his amendments to H.R.5515, the FY19 National Defense Authorization Act, which passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 351-66: “I was pleased to offer a number of amendments to the FY19 NDAA that were adopted with bipartisan support. The NDAA is sweeping legislation, and this year’s bill was overwhelmingly bipartisan. My amendments will be highly beneficial for veterans and all of South Florida,” said Hastings. Background: Hastings Amendment #157 authorizes the Secretary of Defense to establish a joint Military Transition Outreach Pilot Program to contact servicemembers 30, 60, and 90 days after separation or retirement from active duty. “The need for this program is simple: too many veterans leave the military unaware of their earned benefits or the services available for assisting them and their families as they transition to civilian life. During this critical time of transition, too many people fall through the cracks, and many more have concerns or questions that they cannot easily get answered. The pilot program created by this amendment will help to close the communication gaps. We should ensure that each of our veterans has the knowledge and resources they need to fully utilize their benefits.” said Hastings. Hastings Amendment #27 directs the Secretary of Defense to report to Congress on military installations that have been made available for disaster recovery over the past 10 fiscal years, as well as installations assessed to be available for fast response to disasters in the future. “We have a significant number of active installations under DOD deemed to be in excess – more than 20 percent,” said Hastings. “When responding to disasters, DOD and FEMA often coordinate their efforts, and excess space on military installations facilitates recovery efforts, serving as staging areas and shelter. We know there are going to be more disasters, and this information will help us be better prepared for the future.” Hastings co-sponsored two additional amendments also adopted by the House of Representatives. The first, offered by a group of 21 Representatives, helps students attending Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSIs), and Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander Serving Institutions (AANAPISI) access the Department of Defense Cyber Scholarship Program. The second, offered by Representatives Alma Adams (D-NC) and Hastings, promotes increased participation in Federal procurement by HBCUs and minority serving institutions. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.16.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings sent the following letter to the U.S. Department of Justice requesting funds for the Florida Department of Law Enforcement’s (FDLE) Mental Competency (MECOM) Database. These funds would be used to update the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) Indices with disqualifying mental health records. May 16, 2018 Alan Hanson Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Office of Justice Programs United States Department of Justice 810 Seventh Street NW Washington, D.C. 20531 Dear Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Hanson: I write in support of the Florida Department of Law Enforcement’s (FDLE) request for funds to support the Mental Competency (MECOM) Database in Florida. These funds would be used to establish a pilot program that would ascertain the existence of disqualifying mental health records that would then be entered into the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) Indices in a timely manner. In Florida, Clerks of Court are required to submit criminal court dispositions and mental health records that would disqualify an individual from purchasing or possessing a firearm. A 2016 report issued by Florida’s Inspector General found that 17 percent of mental health records were being reported late. This report showed that some records had still not been reported a year after a final disposition finding that an individual had a disqualifying mental health condition. As I am sure you are aware, Floridians have suffered multiple mass shootings in the past two years with the most recent mass shooting occurring on February 14, 2018 at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. That shooting left 14 students and 3 teachers dead at the hands of a shooter who was able to too easily acquire a weapon of war. It is imperative that these databases are updated on a regular basis and without delay, so that they can be relied upon in what should be everyone’s endeavor to keep firearms out of the hands of those who wish to do harm to others. I respectfully request your full and fair consideration of the FDLE’s grant application. If you should have any further questions, please do not hesitate to contact my office at (202) 225-1313. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.15.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), Congressman Ted Deutch (D-FL), and Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL) released the following statement in reaction to the newly elected National Rifle Association (NRA) President Oliver North calling student gun reform activists “civil terrorists”: “Oliver North’s comparing gun reform activists to civil terrorists is as outrageous as it is shameful,” said Congressman Hastings. “I’ve got news for Mr. North: the Stoneman Douglas High School students and others like them are not afraid to take you on, and they surely won’t back down from the NRA’s mob-like intimidation efforts. Our student leaders are heroes, and they are the ones who will transform the gun-control movement. The NRA has truly lost its way if it goes to such lengths to protect gun sale profits.” “The American people understand that the NRA will do anything to protect its interests, but these expletives are too far even for the NRA,” said Congressman Deutch. “The student-survivors are heroes, and they are leading a movement that has the NRA terrified. The NRA’s intimidation tactics and shameful language will not stop these students or the national gun violence prevention movement from achieving sensible gun laws in our country.” “The Marjory Stonemen Douglas students who have bravely taken on the NRA since the Parkland tragedy are inspiring role models, not frightening criminals, as the new NRA President Oliver North has tried to characterize them,” said Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz. “An actual criminal himself, North’s dangerous rhetoric, aimed at teenagers he disagrees with, shows just how low the NRA will go to put gun sales and profits over human life and common-sense firearm laws.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.14.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement marking the formal opening of the U.S. Embassy in Jerusalem: “In 1995, I voted in favor of the Jerusalem Embassy Act, recognizing Jerusalem as the undivided capital of Israel and committing the United States to relocating its embassy to the city. Jerusalem is, and always will be, the eternal capital of the Jewish people. “While I am pleased to see this commitment come to fruition, I remain concerned about its impact on the security of our embassies and consulates throughout the world. “Israel is our closest ally, and we cannot lose sight of the immense challenges the Israeli people face on a daily basis. Israel’s security must remain foremost in our bilateral partnership. “The United States must continue to play a leading role in mediating the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and support a two-state solution that provides for peace, security, and mutual recognition for both the Israeli and Palestinian people. “The relocation of the U.S. Embassy to Jerusalem must not distract from this critical issue.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.09.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement commending Mr. Roger DeHart, who is currently walking more than 1,000 miles from Fort Lauderdale, Florida to Washington D.C., in order to raise awareness about human trafficking: “I am so truly honored to recognize Mr. Roger DeHart, a devoted public servant who is currently walking from Fort Lauderdale to Washington, in order to raise awareness about human trafficking. Roger is a Deputy Officer at the Broward County Courthouse. He began training for this walk six months ago, and after pooling his vacation time, he set-off from the steps of the Broward County Courthouse to the steps of the U.S. Capitol. Roger’s walk will culminate on May 19th at Union Square in Washington, where he will host a rally with elected officials, his family, friends, and survivors of human trafficking. “Human trafficking is a form of modern-day slavery, and the United States is one of the top destinations in the world for trafficked victims. Centers of tourism, including Florida, are major destinations for human trafficking victims – many of whom come from our own communities and schools. Florida now has the third highest rate of trafficking in the country, and Broward and Palm Beach Counties rank 1st and 4th respectively for in-state incidences. “We are seeing a disturbing trend of victims being targeted at schools, where traffickers use force, fraud, or coercion to control victims and subject them to compelled labor or commercial sex acts. One year ago, I led members of the South Florida Congressional Delegation in urging the Palm Beach County and Broward County Public Schools systems to incorporate human trafficking education into their curriculums in order to push back against this horrific crime. “I am awe inspired by Roger’s activism and dedication to raising awareness about an issue that is taking place in every state across our nation. Roger deserves a debt of gratitude for all that he is doing to bring about real change, and working to end human trafficking once and for all. It only takes one person to make a difference. I thank Roger for being an unsung hero to so many, for his service to our community and to our nation.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings represents Florida’s 20th district, and serves as a Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida delegation. ###
05.09.2018	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letter to Florida House Speaker Richard Corcoran and Florida Senate President Joe Negron, advising them to prioritize the repeal of the firearm preemption law that limits the ability of localities to implement sensible gun control measures. Joining Hastings’ as co-signers of the letter include: Senator Bill Nelson, Reps. Val Demings, Charlie Crist, Lois Frankel, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Stephanie Murphy, Al Lawson, Darren Soto, Kathy Castor, Frederica Wilson, and Ted Deutch. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter): May 9, 2018 The Honorable Speaker Richard Corcoran Florida House of Representatives 420 The Capitol 402 South Monroe Street Tallahassee, FL 32399 The Honorable Senate President Joe Negron Florida Senate Suite 409 Capitol 404 South Monroe Street Tallahassee, FL 32399 Dear Speaker Corcoran and Senate President Negron: We write in the wake of the February shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, where a 19-year-old used a semiautomatic AR-15 to methodically murder 14 of his former classmates and three teachers. Once again, the citizens of Florida were forced to try to make sense of the senseless. In the wake of this horrific tragedy, countless Floridians have been demanding reforms to gun policy at the local level, but Florida’s laws make that impossible. As you know, Florida Statute § 790.33 reserves for the state the exclusive right to regulate firearms. This law not only prevents localities from enacting any kind of firearm measure, but also subjects a violating locality or local official to a civil fine – a provision that we believe may be unconstitutional given that legislators are immune from civil liability for legislative activities. It is our opinion that you prioritize the repeal of this law and allow local officials to enact reasonable firearm measures that best reflects the views of their constituents. Florida has a population of over 20 million people, with a diverse geography ranging from rural pockets to expanding suburbs to overflowing cities. Laws that work for Franklin County may not necessarily work for Broward County. In passing this firearm preemption law, the Florida State Legislature has instituted a one-size-fits-all approach that completely cuts out local officials from enacting gun policies that best serve their communities. The principle of home rule is based on the concept that the closer the government is to the people, the more responsive it will be. Instead of letting the cities and counties work, you have shifted local government responsibility to the State. Students advocating for gun violence prevention reforms should not have to take a seven-hour bus ride to Tallahassee to demand change. They should be able to push for change in their local city hall or at their county commissioners meeting. All Floridians have a right to make their communities safe from the onslaught of gun violence they witness month after month. They have a right to implement laws that prohibit individuals with a history of mental illness from buying a gun. They have a right to implement laws that would rid their streets of military-grade firearms. They have a right to implement laws that would ban high-capacity magazines. And they have a right to pass these and any other laws they deem necessary to address gun violence in their communities, without interference from Tallahassee. In just the past two years, Florida has suffered two of the deadliest mass shootings in modern U.S. history. It is our opinion that the Florida State Legislature is long overdue to prioritize the repeal of the firearm preemption law that limits the ability of localities to implement sensible gun measures. Local officials should not be personally penalized for enacting reasonable firearm measures that best reflect the views of their constituents. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Bill Nelson U.S. Senator Val Demings Member of Congress Charlie Crist Member of Congress Lois Frankel Member of Congress Debbie Wasserman Schultz Member of Congress Stephanie Murphy Member of Congress Al Lawson Member of Congress Darren Soto Member of Congress Kathy Castor Member of Congress Frederica Wilson Member of Congress Ted Deutch Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings represents Florida’s 20th district, and serves as a Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida delegation. ###
05.08.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after President Donald John Trump announced the withdrawal of the United States from the Iran Nuclear Agreement: “I am deeply concerned that President Trump’s decision to remove the United States from the Iran Nuclear Agreement was made to fulfil a campaign pledge, rather than in the interest of global security. Although I opposed the agreement, in part because of its provisions protecting Iran’s capacity for manufacturing advanced centrifuges in the future, unilaterally withdrawing from the deal may put our credibility on the international stage in jeopardy at the worst possible time. Now that the President has taken this action, we must look ahead to what comes next. Iran must be contained, and without an international framework in place to do so, our options are limited. I await the President’s plan for how to move forward with a new paradigm for nonproliferation that protects the stability of the region and ensures the security of our ally Israel.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings represents Florida’s 20th district, and serves as a Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida delegation. ###
04.20.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement in support of the National School Walkout, commemorating the 19th anniversary of the mass shooting at Columbine High School: “I am extremely proud of the students across our nation, who are taking part in the National School Walkout Day. The passion and energy of these students in the days since the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School is inspiring, and I will continue to work with them and any other person committed to sending commonsense gun legislation to the President’s desk. “The gun violence epidemic that has gripped this country is neither a Democratic nor a Republican issue, but rather, one of national importance; the solutions to which must not face further delay. Unfortunately, with this Republican-led Congress, all we have seen is delay – and all we are going to continue to see is delay. The only option I see is to renew and double our efforts to ensure the election of people who care about addressing our country’s gun violence epidemic through the passage of commonsense gun reform legislation. I believe that this generation will be the generation to make this a reality. “I was pleased to see the Florida State Legislature pass a gun control bill that included provisions to raise the minimum age for all gun purchases to 21 from 18, to ban bump stocks, and to expand mental health services and regulations, but more work remains to be done. The Florida State Legislature should now work to ban assault weapons, ban high-capacity magazines, and strengthen background checks. To the extent that body will not move on such legislation, I have advocated that the Legislature overturn the State pre-emption law that makes it a civil offense to pass commonsense gun reform at the local level. It is my considered opinion that not only is this pre-emption law undemocratic and dangerous, but unconstitutional. “All Floridians, and Americans for that matter, have a right to make their communities safe from the onslaught of gun violence this country witnesses month after month. They have a right to demand that individuals with a history of mental illness cannot buy a gun. They have a right to demand an end to the preposterous number of military-style firearms flowing through their streets.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.18.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement marking Yom Ha'atzmaut, Israel’s Independence Day: “I am proud to congratulate the State of Israel as it celebrates its 70th Independence Day. The U.S.-Israel relationship is paramount, and we must never take for granted the close ties between us. “Israel’s story is truly remarkable. I have been privileged to visit Israel as a Member of Congress 18 times, and each time I go I am inspired by what I see. Despite constant challenges to its very right to exist, Israel has developed into a modern, multinational democracy with a thriving high-tech sector and an open society. “Too often, Israel is unfairly targeted on the world stage. As we see a resurgence of anti-Semitism and anti-Zionism, including efforts to boycott, divest, or otherwise isolate Israel, it is more important than ever that we continue to stand with our Israeli allies. “As we celebrate this important milestone, I again urge House leadership to bring up my resolution, H.Res.393, to reaffirm the House of Representative’s commitment to the State of Israel and peace and security in the region.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.13.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after President Trump ordered military strikes against the Syrian regime, in response to the brutal chemical weapons attack on civilians in Douma: “Last week’s chemical weapon attack in Douma, like the one carried out in April 2017 against the town of Khan Shaykhun, is an outrageous war crime perpetrated by the Assad regime. The use of chemical weapons requires a swift, strong, and deliberate international response. “The President indicated tonight that he is prepared to sustain our response in Syria. For too long, Congress has sat idly by as the Executive Branch engages our military in numerous conflicts overseas through an Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF), which was enacted in 2001. This cannot continue! I call on the Speaker to bring an AUMF before the House of Representatives immediately. “The United States must also hold Russia and Iran accountable for their support of the Assad regime, and perpetuation of the conflict in Syria.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.12.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking Yom HaShoah, Holocaust and Heroism Remembrance Day: “I join with my friends in the Jewish community in observance of Yom HaShoah. Today, we memorialize the millions of Jews murdered during the Holocaust and recognize the brave few who aided those fleeing persecution. “Few nations acted as the systematic persecution of Jews spread across Europe. Many, including the United States, turned away Jewish refugees. As we face a resurgence of anti-Semitism and historic levels of displacement worldwide, it is imperative that we recognize the continued need to provide aid to oppressed people everywhere. “In reflecting on this day, we are again reminded that we must always combat hatred and intolerance wherever it exists. To ignore the lessons of the Holocaust would be a betrayal to the victims, their families, survivors, and their descendants.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.10.2018	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking Equal Pay Day, the date to which the average woman must work to in order to earn what her male counterpart earned the previous year: “It has been 55 years since the passage of the Equal Pay Act, yet women still do not receive equal pay for equal work. Last year, the average working woman earned 80 cents for every dollar earned by her male counterpart – and the gap is wider for women of color. This disparity affects millions of women, many of whom are the primary breadwinners for their families, and has a significant impact on our countries economic prosperity. “The time has long since passed that address this issue once and for all. Congress must build on its successes in the past and ensure that all workplaces are safe environments where all people are treated equally and without discrimination. I am proud to support House Democrats’ When Women Succeed, America Succeeds agenda, and will continue to do all that I can in the fight for gender equality.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.10.2018	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) led a letter to Florida Secretary of State Ken Detzner, urging him as Florida’s chief state election official to request funds through the Election Security Grants Program to help fortify Florida’s election equipment and systems databases, as well as provide cybersecurity training to election officials. With just seven months before the 2018 midterm elections, this funding for election security could not come at a more critical time. Joining Hastings’ as co-signers of the letter include: Reps. Val Demings, Lois Frankel, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Al Lawson, Kathy Castor, Frederica Wilson, Ted Deutch, and Charlie Crist. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter): April 9, 2018 The Honorable Ken Detzner Secretary of State Florida Department of State R.A. Gray Building 500 South Bronough Street Tallahassee, Florida 32399 Dear Secretary Detzner: In November 2016, 139 million Americans cast their ballots in the midst of a major cyber-enabled influence operation at the hands of the Russian government. According to U.S. intelligence reports, hackers backed by the Russian government targeted voting registration systems in 21 states, and attempted to penetrate voting equipment vendors, political parties, and local election boards. While most state systems were not breached, the U.S. Intelligence Community has repeatedly warned that Russia will try to disrupt midterm elections in November 2018. In fact, Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats told the Senate Intelligence Committee: “There should be no doubt that Russia perceived that its past efforts as successful and views the 2018 U.S. midterm election as a potential target for Russian midterm operations.” As you know, the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2018 (Omnibus) included $380 million to the Election Assistance Commission to make grant payments to states to secure and improve their election systems. These grants, authorized under Title 1 Section 101 of the Help America Vote Act (HAVA) of 2002, will provide much-needed federal funding for improving election security in the states. States are directed to use these funds to replace paperless voting equipment with paper-based voting equipment, implement a post-election audit system, upgrade voting equipment to address cyber vulnerabilities, provide cybersecurity training for state and local election officials, and implement cybersecurity best practices for election systems. With just seven months before the 2018 midterm elections, federal funding for election security could not come at a more critical time. As instructed by the Omnibus, the Election Assistance Commission will make $19,187,003 available to the State of Florida. We urge you as our chief state election official to request these grant funds to help fortify Florida’s election equipment and systems databases, as well as provide cybersecurity training to election officials. Thank you for your time and consideration of our request. We look forward to a prompt response. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Val Demings Member of Congress Lois Frankel Member of Congress Debbie Wasserman Schultz Member of Congress Al Lawson Member of Congress Kathy Castor Member of Congress Frederica Wilson Member of Congress Ted Deutch Member of Congress Charlie Crist Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.16.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the passing of Congresswoman Louise Slaughter, Ranking Member and Former Chairwoman of the House Rules Committee, and the Dean of the New York House Delegation: “I am absolutely heartbroken at the passing of my dear friend and colleague, Congresswoman Louise Slaughter. For 30 years, Louise poured every ounce of energy she had into serving her district and her constituents in upstate New York. She never hesitated to speak her mind, and she never wavered in espousing her beliefs. I will always be grateful for the time that I had to serve alongside her. “Louise was one of my dearest friends in Congress, and I am overcome with sadness by this tragic news. Her legacy speaks for itself. She was not just a champion of women’s rights; she was the champion of working families everywhere. Today, we have lost one of our fiercest public servants, and her absence will leave an unfillable void. “I offer my deepest condolences to Louise’s daughters, her family, her friends, her district, and her Congressional staff during this extremely difficult time.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.15.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the seventh anniversary of the Syrian Civil War: “Since 2011, it is estimated that almost 500,000 Syrians have been killed with millions more displaced, creating a refugee crisis across Europe and the Middle East. Today, we will sadly mark the seventh anniversary of the Syrian Civil War, which is one of the bloodiest wars of the last 70 years. “I traveled to Syria in January 2010 and personally met with President Bashar al-Assad. As I pressed him on the importance of honoring the right of his people to exercise their civil liberties and fundamental freedoms, I knew immediately that he would not give in. Many others, like me, recognized this long before civil war erupted. And yet, years have passed without the necessary effort by the international community to stop the violence. “On May 28, 2013, I sent a letter to former President Barack Obama and Ambassador Susan Rice, urging them to support imposing a no-fly zone over Syria, particularly in light of the continued indiscriminate shelling of innocent civilians and the use of chemical weapons by the Assad regime. I renewed my calls for a no-fly zone to President Obama again on September 25, 2015. “What we have witnessed since the start of this civil war is indiscriminate, brutal attacks against civilians. The international community must no longer sit idly by and let more families be torn apart and more civilians become refugees. “According to the United Nations (UN), nearly 3 million Syrian children have lived their entire lives gripped by civil war. This is absolutely outrageous, and something needs to happen, and it needs to happen now! “It has been seven years, let me repeat myself, seven years, since this civil war began. This crisis, in which millions of innocent Syrians find themselves today, demands our full attention and fervent commitment to creating a strategy that will bring an end to the deplorable conditions facing the Syrian people. The need for immediate and strong action remains. With each passing day, the violence has grown more sectarian, militarized, and radicalized at the cost of innocent Syrian lives.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.27.2018	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letter to Florida House Speaker Richard Corcoran and Florida Senate President Joe Negron, urging them to prioritize the repeal of the firearm preemption law that limits the ability of localities to implement sensible gun control measures. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter): February 27, 2018 The Honorable Speaker Richard Corcoran Florida House of Representatives 420 The Capitol 402 South Monroe Street Tallahassee, FL 32399 The Honorable Senate President Joe Negron Florida Senate 330 Senate Office Building 404 S. Monroe Street Tallahassee, FL 32399 Dear Speaker Corcoran and Senate President Negron: I write in the wake of yet another tragic shooting, this time involving a 19-year-old using a semiautomatic AR-15 that he legally purchased and used to methodically murder 14 of his former classmates and 3 teachers at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida. Once again, the citizens of Florida have been forced to try to make sense of the senseless. They have been forced to try to make sense of the lack of leadership from you and other elected officials who are beholden to the gun lobby in our State and around the country. What’s worse than this inability to lead, is the fact that the Florida Legislature passed a law (Florida Statute § 790.33) that reserved for the state the exclusive right to regulate firearms. Not only does Florida’s firearm preemption law prevent localities from enacting any kind of firearm measure, but it also subjects a violating locality or local official to a civil fine – what I believe to be an unconstitutional provision given that legislators generally are immune from civil liability. It was my understanding that a founding principle of the Republican Party is that local control is best, yet Florida’s firearm preemption law flies in the face of that principle. Florida has a population of over 20 million people, with a diverse geography ranging from rural pockets to expanding suburbs to overflowing cities. It seems obvious that whatever works for Hendry County will not necessarily work for Broward County. Yet in passing this firearm preemption law, the Florida State Legislature seems intent on instituting a one-size-fits-all approach that completely cuts out local officials from enacting gun policies that best serve their communities. At the same time Republicans rail against big government mandates, they seem delighted in passing laws that directly attack the principle of home rule and avert the powers of local government officials. Home rule is based on a concept that the closer the government is to the people, the more responsive it will be. Instead of letting the cities and counties work, you have shifted local government responsibility to the State. Students should not have to take a seven-hour bus ride to Tallahassee to demand change. They should be able to push for change in their local city hall or at their county commissioners meeting. All Floridians, and Americans for that matter, have a right to make their communities safe from the onslaught of gun violence this country witnesses month after month. They have a right to demand that individuals with a history of mental illness cannot buy a gun. They have a right to demand an end to the preposterous number of military-style firearms flowing through their streets. Florida is now home to two of the most deadly mass shootings in modern U.S. history. If the Florida State Legislature refuses to lead on gun safety, it should at the very least step aside so that local government officials can fill the void and protect our State’s citizens. I respectfully urge you to prioritize the repeal of the firearm preemption law that limits the ability of localities to implement sensible gun measures, so that they may exhibit the leadership that has been so clearly lacking at the State level. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Cc: The Honorable Rick Scott, Governor, Florida
02.14.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School Shooting in Parkland, FL: “Our worst fears have been realized, and our community has been left shattered. The lives of 17 innocent individuals have been ripped away from us in a cowardly mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. I am heartbroken tonight and without words. “I am so grateful to all of the first responders who acted selflessly and without hesitation to prevent further loss of life, and am thankful for the teachers who did everything possible to keep their students safe. “There is nothing I can say that will bring consolation to the families of the victims, nor to our community. I can only pledge that I will meet this tragedy with the fiercest of resolve. There have been 18 school shootings since the start of the year. This is not normal. This is not natural. This is not, and can never be, the cost of living in America. “The stranglehold of the gun lobby has gone on long enough. They have divided our country and washed their hands of responsibility, even as schools and neighborhoods bear the brunt of gun violence every single day. I am sick and tired of feeling the heartbreak of communities ripped apart by this violence. “I demand that President Trump takes decisive action to get guns off our streets. Democrats in Congress have tried and been blocked by Republicans, time and time again. This cannot be allowed to continue. The President is the leader of our country, and he must step up and tell his party that the time for inaction is over. We must end the violence, and we must take every step possible to make our schools and communities a safe place.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.07.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement in recognition of the 18th Annual National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day: “Now in its 18th year, National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day plays a valuable role in mobilizing, educating, and reminding us of the disproportionate impact that this epidemic has upon African American men and women in our community. More than 1.2 million people are living with HIV/AIDS in the United States, nearly 500,000 of whom are Black. “African Americans battling this disease are also confronted by greater obstacles, in the form of disproportionately low access to healthcare. The black community living with HIV/AIDS faces higher rates of homelessness, poverty, and incarceration, as well as difficulties in accessing preventative testing and treatment. Medical advances mean that people with HIV/AIDS are living longer and healthier lives, but we must not waiver in the fight to end new infections and provide better resources for those living with this disease. “I remain committed to working with my colleagues in Congress, healthcare providers, and community leaders to support HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment efforts.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.02.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on President Donald John Trump’s release of House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI) Chairman David Nunes’ misleading FISA Memo: “As the Former Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, I am outraged that Republicans wrote a classified memo and then voted to make it public in order to undermine the Mueller investigation. The partisan memo is rife with misrepresentations and inaccuracies, and it was released for purely political reasons against the advice of the FBI and the Justice Department. “Even more shocking is the fact that House Republicans on the Committee blocked a counter-memo on the same subject from being released, preventing any refutation of their partisan smear-campaign. Their decision to politicize the intelligence and selectively release information to drive a political narrative is extraordinarily reckless, and does a grave disservice to the brave men and women in our Intelligence Community. For weeks, social media accounts linked to Russian networks have saturated the airwaves calling for a release of the memo. I am stunned that Republicans actually fell for it.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.01.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement in recognition of Black History Month: “During the month of February, we commemorate the incredible history of African American tradition and culture. There is no American history without African American history, and this month, we take time to reflect on the sacrifices of past generations. I am proud to continue this effort, and join with my colleagues in Congress and communities across the country in marking this month in the spirit of celebration and resolve. “Our hard-won achievements are always at risk. Indeed, over the past year, President Donald John Trump’s Administration has pursued dangerous policies, many of which disproportionately affect communities of color. From healthcare to employment, education, or housing, communities of color are still vastly underrepresented and systemically disadvantaged. This Black History Month, I pledge to continue to champion equality for all.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.30.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement in response to President Donald John Trump’s first State of the Union Address: “Throughout the first year of his Administration, President Donald John Trump has demonstrated that he is unable to govern. Having spent 25 percent of his Presidency at his private golf clubs - and who knows how much time ranting on Twitter - President Trump has abdicated his responsibilities to our country. “The President’s policies speak for themselves – each more outrageous than the last. His $1.5 trillion deficit-exploding tax plan padded the pockets of his millionaire friends and stacked the deck against middle class and working poor Americans. His frequent disparaging comments about women, minorities, and LGBTQ Americans showcase his ignorant, misguided view of the world. All the while, he has actively sought to suppress an ongoing independent investigation into his own administration. “We are just four months into the fiscal year, and yet, the Republican-run Congress has needed four short-term continuing resolutions to keep our country running. This is no way to govern, and the negative effects of relying on short-term continuing resolutions continue to cause immeasurable harm to our country. “One evening of faux-bipartisanship does not erase the President’s failures over the past year. I do not believe for one second that the coming year will be any different. Tonight, President Trump further proved what we already know about him: he sees the Presidency as tool for self-aggrandizement. He sees himself as infallible, even as his policies jeopardize the wellbeing of the most vulnerable Americans. “Congress must prevent another Republican government shutdown in just nine days, protect DREAMers and recipients of Temporary Protected Status (TPS), and provide gravely needed disaster relief. I call on my colleagues in Congress, Democrat and Republican, to turn their backs on this President’s divisiveness. Together, we can lead by example and put the American people first.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.26.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement recognizing Holocaust Remembrance Day and the Days of Remembrance: “The Holocaust was one of the darkest periods in human history, when two out of every three Jews in Europe were systematically murdered by the Nazis. Countless families and nearly one and a half million children were murdered in camps, by death squads, and in ghettos. “The Days of Remembrance was established by the United States Congress to honor the lives of the victims and survivors of the Holocaust. Today, we recommit ourselves to rejecting anti-Semitism and all forms of injustice, and to preventing atrocities such as genocide from ever happening again. “This year marks the 73rd anniversary of the liberation of the largest Nazi death camp, Auschwitz-Birkenau. The United Nations has declared this year’s theme for International Holocaust Remembrance Day: Holocaust Remembrance and Education: Our Shared Responsibility. Let us continue to promote education of this tragedy so that future generations may stand up against hatred and prejudice and work to embody the very best of human nature in the future. “As we observe International Holocaust Remembrance Day, we must continue to foster understanding, tolerance and respect for human dignity. This week, and indeed all throughout the year, we must remember those whose lives were lost in the Holocaust and continue to ensure their stories and their voices never go unheard.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.25.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) issued the following statement on President Donald John Trump’s immigration proposal: “The President’s so-called immigration proposal is absolutely shameful. It is a ransom demand, plain and simple. “Donald John Trump’s isolationist vision is a betrayal of American values. He would rather cut-off a legitimate pathway of immigration to the United States, separate families, and create an arbitrary litmus-test for citizenship. This shakedown proposal was obviously written by Stephen Miller, and it is an absolute insult to our great nation and the principles we stand for. “DREAMers should not be used as bargaining chip in order to advance anti-immigrant policies. We have a bipartisan solution, and it is called the Dream Act. Congress should not be distracted by the President's non-starter proposal, and continue working diligently towards a compromise.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.22.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking the 45th anniversary of the U.S. Supreme Court’s Roe v. Wade decision: “As we reflect on the landmark decision of Roe v. Wade, it is imperative that we confront and deter those who seek to block women from exercising their constitutional rights, and let us never take this right for granted. The importance of Roe v. Wade, and its impact on countless women over the past 45 years, cannot be overstated. “It is deeply disturbing to me that reproductive rights are still under attack in our country. Women’s healthcare providers continue to be systematically undermined, threatening the health of millions of people. “Women all across this nation must have access to comprehensive reproductive healthcare services. These decisions should be made between a woman, her doctor, and her family. It is critical that we continue to speak out against legislation and policies, which weaken the freedoms of all women who are fighting to protect their right to choose. I remain steadfast in my commitment to oppose any legislation or policies that fail to protect the reproductive freedoms of women all across the country.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.22.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) issued the following statement on the government funding bill: “The Trump Shutdown was the first in modern history where one party controlled the House, Senate, and White House. Our country is just four months into the fiscal year, yet the Republican-run Congress has needed four short-term continuing resolutions to keep the government running. It is absolutely shameful that Congress has needed to pass a three week spending bill, kicking-the-can down the road yet again. This is no way to run our government. “The clock is ticking. Over the next 17 days, the American people will face grave uncertainty. This is not leadership, this is no way to function, and it must stop. “President Donald John Trump’s first year in office has been marred by dysfunction and a blatant inability to govern. It is time to have long-term parity with our nation’s budget, and to place the priorities of the American people before politics.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.20.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the Republican shutdown, which coincides with the anniversary of President Trump’s first year in office: “President Trump’s first year in office has been marred by dysfunction and a blatant inability to govern. This Administration has leapt from one controversy to another, throwing our government into complete disarray and tarnishing our role on the global stage. “We are now in the second Republican government shutdown in five years. Despite controlling the White House, the Senate, and the House of Representatives, President Trump’s Republican Party can’t even meet the most basic requirements of governing. They have frozen Democrats out of the process and reneged on bipartisan agreements supported by the overwhelming majority of Americans. “Our government cannot function on short-term Continuing Resolutions (CR), yet we are being forced to consider the fourth CR just four months into the fiscal year. We must have long-term parity in our budget. Without it, the National Institute of Health (NIH) cannot conduct lifesaving research, the Department of Transportation (DOT) cannot repair roads, and the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) cannot coordinate our response to the opioid crisis, which is taking a devastating toll on our district. Republicans have had four months and three short-term continuing resolutions to come up with a compromise bill. Instead, they have pursued policies that will permanently harm our country, from expanding oil drilling coast to coast to deporting hundreds of thousands of law abiding people, at a cost of hundreds of billions of dollars. “They are making a severe miscalculation. The blame for this government shutdown lies solely at their feet.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.12.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement in commemoration of Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day: “Every year, we remember the life and legacy of Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., and honor his lifelong work to overcome prejudice and hatred. This year, as we face the prospect of losing ground in the fight for equality, it is especially meaningful that we reflect on Dr. King’s legacy and everything that he stood for. “Too many inequalities still exist for communities of color. Be it education, housing, or employment opportunities, communities of color still remain at a disadvantage. In the wake of decisions by the Trump Administration to eviscerate funding for affordable housing and education – programs that are of great importance to leveling the playing field – we must be mindful that the wrongs of the past are not so simply reversed. We must never stop challenging ourselves to do better. “Today’s observance reminds us of our responsibility to provide equal opportunities for all, to reject prejudice, fight discrimination, and to oppose the demonization of any American based on their skin color or ethnicity. Let us rededicate ourselves to fostering progress in our communities, just as Dr. King did not so long ago.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.11.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement blasting President Donald John Trump’s comments about Haiti and African countries: “President Donald John Trump’s comments about Haiti and African countries were offensive and below the dignity of the office of the President. The President has demonstrated time and time again that he lacks morality or compassion. His ignorant, misguided view of the world was on full display tonight. “The President is constantly degrading the presidency, thereby degrading America’s image. We all know extraordinary people from Haiti, Africa, and Latin American countries. Fortunately, Donald John Trump doesn’t represent the views of all Americans. “In the run up to the celebration of Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.’s life, I commend one of his comments: ‘Every person must decide whether he or she will walk in the light of creative altruism or in the darkness of destructive selfishness.’ “Trump’s comments are the manifestation of destructive selfishness. He must apologize!” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.09.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement announcing a new shared-space agreement between members of the Palm Beach County Congressional Delegation to the United States House of Representatives at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Medical Center at West Palm Beach, Florida (VAMC-WPB): “I am pleased to announce the creation of the first-ever shared space agreement with the VA, at our very own Medical Center in West Palm Beach, located in my Congressional district. This agreement was nearly a year in the making, and I am deeply appreciative of the VAMC’s willingness to open their doors and share their space with us,” said Congressman Hastings. “This agreement between VAMC-WPB and Members of the Palm Beach Congressional Delegation will ensure that veterans across Palm Beach County have access to their Representative in Congress, while visiting the VAMC. I am here to serve my constituents in any way I can, and look forward to utilizing the VAMC to better serve members of our community.” “The West Palm Beach VA Medical Center is proud to partner with our Congressional offices on this endeavor. Through this shared office space agreement we will enhance transparency and increase collaboration to provide Veterans with the best care and services possible,” said Mrs. Donna Katen-Bahensky, Medical Center Director of the West Palm Beach VA Medical Center. “Today’s announcement marks a historic day in which a bipartisan Congressional delegation comes together for the sake of helping veterans in our community,” said Congressman Deutch. “This new shared office will enhance our veterans’ services by directly linking our district staff with the West Palm Beach Veterans Affairs Medical Center. It is my honor to serve these veterans and make sure they receive the support and benefits they’ve earned.” “Women and men who have served our country should be given every opportunity to live healthy productive civilian lives and retire in dignity as they age,” said Congresswoman Frankel, mother of a United States Marine war veteran. “In addition to these new office hours, my staff has always been available to help veterans with a dedicated veterans issues caseworker. I encourage my constituents to reach out at any time.” “Opening the first-ever Congressional office inside a VA facility is a big bipartisan win for our area’s veterans so they can get the help they need, when they need it,” Congressman Mast said. “I want to say thank you to my West Palm Beach area colleagues – Congressmen Hastings, Deutch and Frankel – who worked with me to fulfill this promise I made to our veterans. Let’s get to work!” ADDITIONAL DETAILS: The VAMC-WPB is located within Congressman Hastings’ Congressional District, at 7305 North Military Trail, Riviera Beach, FL 33410. The shared space is located on the first floor of the Medical Center in room 1A-366. Each participating office will hold office hours between 10:00 AM and 2:00 PM on the following days: Rep. Brian Mast – Monday Rep. Lois Frankel – Tuesday Rep. Ted Deutch – First Wednesday of every month Rep. Alcee L. Hastings – Thursday Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.09.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after voting in favor of H.Res.676, Supporting the rights of the people of Iran to free expression, condemning the Iranian regime for its crackdown on legitimate protests, and for other purposes. The resolution passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 415 - 2. “Thousands of Iranians took to the streets over the past few weeks to protest economic repression at the hands of Ayatollah Khamenei‘s regime. This is one of the largest anti-corruption uprisings in Iran in recent memory, and it has been aimed directly at the Ayatollah’s repressive political establishment. In keeping with its record of human rights violations, the Iranian government responded by killing protestors and imprisoning thousands of its citizens. The government’s continued violation of human rights is unacceptable, which is why I cosponsored and voted for H.Res.676, which the passed the House of Representatives today. The U.S. must continue to stand against the Iranian regime’s corruption and support for regional terrorism.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.08.2018	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Congressman Vern Buchanan (R-FL) introduced a resolution honoring Keiser University on its 40th anniversary. Hastings and Buchanan were joined by Reps. Matt Gaetz (R-FL), Neal Dunn (R-FL), Dennis Ross (R-FL), Brian Mast (R-FL), Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Al Lawson (D-FL), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), John Rutherford (R-FL), Darren Soto (D-FL), Tom Rooney (R-FL), Lois Frankel (D-FL), Val Demings (D-FL), Ted Yoho (R-FL), Bill Posey (R-FL), Stephanie Murphy (D-FL), Carlos Curbelo (R-FL), Francis Rooney (R-FL), and Ron DeSantis (R-FL). (Please find a copy of the resolution attached): “I am honored to join my colleagues in the Florida delegation in recognizing Keiser University on its 40th anniversary,” said Hastings. “Keiser University was founded in 1977 by Dr. Arthur Keiser and his mother, Ms. Evelyn Keiser, in Fort Lauderdale. Dr. Keiser and Evelyn sought to provide individuals the necessary educational tools for successfully navigating their chosen careers, and designed their school to serve adult learners. They have far exceeded this goal, and today, Keiser University is the third largest not-for-profit university in Florida, offering more than 100 degree granting programs across 18 campuses and online. It gives me great pride to wish Dr. Arthur Keiser, his mother Evelyn, Ms. Belinda Keiser, and the Board of Trustees many more years of continued success.” “Congratulations to Keiser University on its 40th anniversary,” Buchanan said. “The commitment and dedication to provide a quality education to Floridians and others around the world is truly remarkable. Equally impressive is the institution’s positive economic impact on Florida and its support for non-traditional students as the state’s third largest not-for-profit university.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.08.2018	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after introducing the Build America Act of 2018, legislation that will strengthen and expand two existing infrastructure grant programs to invest approximately $120 billion in infrastructure improvements over the next ten years (Please find attached a copy of the legislation): “I am pleased to mark the beginning of the Second Session of the 115th Congress by introducing the Build America Act of 2018. This bill will significantly expand funding for two merit-based infrastructure grant programs, paving the way for billions of dollars of investments nationwide without adding a penny to the national debt. “Every year, House Republicans attempt to zero-out funding for Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) Grants, making it imperative that we protect this vital stream of funding from partisan politics. Capital Investment Grants (CIG) and TIGER Grants are heavily utilized by communities across the country. “By investing billions in merit-based grant awards, we empower communities to more easily compete for funding vital to their needs. I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure that we adequately address our nation’s decaying infrastructure.” BACKGROUND: The Build America Act of 2018 removes the CIG and TIGER programs from the annual appropriations process, establishing them as mandatory programs with permanently expanded funding. Under the legislation, TIGER and CIG would be funded at $3 billion and $9 billion annually, respectively. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.04.2018	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letter to Speaker of the House Paul Ryan and House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, urging them to allow for consideration of H.R.1406, the Dog and Cat Meat Trade Prohibition Act, and H.Res.401, a resolution urging all nations to outlaw the dog and cat meat trade and to enforce existing laws against such trade on the House Floor (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter): January 4, 2018 The Honorable Paul Ryan Speaker U.S. House of Representatives H-232, the Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Kevin McCarthy House Majority Leader U.S. House of Representatives H-107, the Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Speaker Ryan and Majority Leader McCarthy: I write regarding H.R.1406, the Dog and Cat Meat Trade Prohibition Act of 2017 and H.Res.401, a resolution urging all nations to outlaw the dog and cat meat trade and to enforce existing laws against such trade. I respectfully ask that you bring these bills to the floor for a vote without delay. H.R.1406, a bipartisan bill that I introduced with Representatives Vern Buchanan (R-FL), Dave Trott (R-MI), and Brendan Boyle (D-PA), currently has 223 bipartisan cosponsors. The bill would prohibit the slaughter and interstate commerce of dogs and cats for human consumption, providing protections to ensure that family pets and companion animals are not raised for food in the United States. Though a handful of states explicitly ban dog and cat slaughter for human consumption, the vast majority of states are silent on the issue. A federal ban would not only establish a bright line rule so that our animal cruelty laws reflect our society’s values, but also would give the United States greater standing to urge other countries to end their dog and cat meat trade. While H.R.1406 would prevent this abhorrent practice from taking hold in the United States, H.Res.401, a bipartisan resolution in which I introduced with Representative Buchanan urges an end to the dog and cat meat trade globally. On November 15, 2017, the House Committee on Foreign Affairs unanimously passed H.Res.401 out of Committee, with the co-sponsorship and support of Chairman Ed Royce (R-CA). I urge you to bring both H.R.1406 and H.Res.401 to the floor, so that Congress can address this problem both domestically and internationally. Thank you for your time and consideration of my request. I look forward to following up with both of you in person to discuss, and stand ready to do all that I can do to assist. With warm personal regards, I remain, Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.19.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement following passage of H.R.1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: “House Republicans have just voted to increase the deficit by $1.5 trillion in order to cut taxes for billionaires, millionaires, and corporations. This bill is a scam, pure and simple, and the manner in which it was rammed through the House of Representatives without a single hearing is outrageous. “Among other things, the Republican tax bill will create new tax breaks for corporations that ship American jobs overseas, and steal $1.5 trillion from Medicare and Medicaid. Republicans have had the audacity to punt on critical issues like the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and disaster relief, because they can’t agree on how to pay for it. And yet, they have no problem exploding the debt and raising taxes on 86 million middle class households to provide handouts for the one percent. This is hypocrisy at its very worst. “They may be cheering now, but they won’t be so happy come November. Americans will not forget this sham of a bill, nor will they forget who was responsible for it.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.14.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking the 5th anniversary of the mass shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut: “The massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School will forever be among the defining tragedies in our nation’s history. Five years after this incomprehensible act of violence, my heart is still broken for the families that lost children, the teachers who gave their lives protecting their students, and the Newtown community. No words will ever replace the sense of loss or the emptiness that remains. “The sorrow that I feel when reflecting on this anniversary is amplified by the fact that more than 170,000 gun-related deaths have happened since Sandy Hook. Gun violence remains an everyday facet in America, and it seems as if no amount of grief, frustration, or anger can remove this seemingly indelible stain from our country. Another 30,000 Americans will lose their lives from guns in the coming year. I refuse to believe this is simply the cost we must pay for being American. “For too long, Members of Congress beholden to the gun lobby have hidden behind the second amendment, refusing to take any action to curb the gun violence epidemic. That we have not acted in any way whatsoever to protect our citizens is insanity personified. This is on Congress, and Congress must act. Today, I once again call on House Republican leadership to bring up reasonable gun control reforms to reduce the number of gun deaths in our country.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.06.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement after President Donald John Trump announced that the United States would recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and relocate its embassy to the city: “I believe that Jerusalem is and should remain the undivided capital of Israel. To deny the Jewish connection to Jerusalem would be to deny world history. That being said, the manner in which the Trump Administration has announced its recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel is of great concern. “In the context of peace negotiations between the Israelis and the Palestinians, the sensitivity of the status of Jerusalem cannot be overstated. The ramifications of this decision could be profound, and I fear that the President made his decision based on political expediency rather than sound foreign policy. “The United States has long held that the final status of Jerusalem should be determined as part of an agreement negotiated between the State of Israel and the Palestinian leadership. The President’s announcement undercuts this position, as well as the role of the United States as an honest mediator of the conflict. “This announcement puts the security of American embassies and consulates throughout the Arab world at risk. The United States should continue to support a two-state solution that provides for peace, security, and mutual recognition for both the Israeli and Palestinian people. “Earlier this year, I introduced H.Res.393, a resolution supporting a concurrent track approach to the Israeli-Palestinian Peace Process and commending those Arab states that have courageously improved their relations with Israel. I believe this is the best approach to move this process forward, while recognizing the rights of both the Israeli and Palestinian people. “In light of the President’s decision, I call on his administration and the international community to re-engage in a serious diplomatic effort with the Government of Israel and the Palestinian leadership to advance the peace process, including a negotiated agreement on the final status of Jerusalem.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.01.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after Michael Flynn, former National Security Advisor to President Donald John Trump, plead guilty to lying to the FBI about communications with the Russian government: “Former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn has admitted to contacting the Russian Government, under instruction from President Trump’s transition team, and then lying about it to the FBI. Even though today’s guilty plea was not unexpected, it is still an outrageous and shameful admission of purposefully misleading the American people. “This is just the latest step in uncovering the degree to which the Trump Administration colluded with the Russian government. The fact that Michael Flynn is the fourth Trump campaign official to be charged in connection with Special Counsel Robert Muller’s investigation is profoundly telling. “Congress must take every step necessary to ensure that this independent investigation proceeds without interference from the Trump White House. We need answers, not misinformation.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.01.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement commemorating World AIDS Day: “The AIDS epidemic is a public health crisis that affects every community. On World AIDS Day, we honor the memories of the victims of this terrible disease, and recommit ourselves to eradicating HIV/AIDS once and for all. “Despite the tragic toll of HIV/AIDS, we continue to make progress in achieving an AIDS-free generation. With continued investment and research, we will halt this pandemic in its tracks. “In the United States, we must do more to increase access to voluntary screening for HIV/AIDS and reach people with intellectual disabilities and with mobility impairment. We need to continue supporting U.S. initiatives like the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), the Global Fund for AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, and the Ryan White AIDS Program – programs that have saved millions of lives around the world and here at home. “On World AIDS Day, and every day, I am committed to these goals, to saving lives, and to protecting these critical public health programs.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.22.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement following today’s judgement of Bosnian Serb wartime commander Ratko Mladic at the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in The Hague (Netherlands): “I welcome today’s judgement by the international tribunal against Ratko Mladic. The absolutely monstrous nature of the crimes he was found guilty of committing – war crimes, crimes against humanity, and genocide – could not be ignored. Although it took a long time and a lot of effort, justice has, at long last, been served. “My thoughts are now with the surviving victims. Nothing can provide complete closure for the tremendous wrongs that have been committed against them and the losses they experienced, individually and as a people. Justice is more often too slow and far less than complete than it should be. These unfortunate realities are not unique to Bosnia and Herzegovina. “However, a big step has been taken today. Those that have suffered from Ratko Mladic’s vicious acts know that he will pay a price for the crimes he committed. They can further the cause of justice now by relegating him to history, by moving forward with their lives and those of their children and grandchildren, and by learning from – rather than repeating – the wrongs that come with hate. As they do, I want Mladic’s victims also to remember that they are not alone; the people of the United States and many other countries want them to persevere.” Background: On November 22, Ratko Mladic was judged guilty of war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY), which is based in The Hague. He was sentenced to life imprisonment. Mladic was a senior officer in the Yugoslav military based in Croatia during the conflict that followed Croatia’s assertion of independent statehood in 1991. When Bosnia and Herzegovina declared independence in 1992, he became commander of Bosnian Serb forces in that country, a position he held throughout the conflict that lasted until the signing of the Dayton Agreement in late 1995. Mladic was held responsible for the siege of Sarajevo and the genocide at Srebrenica, each of which led to many thousands of deaths. Indicted in 1995, he remained at large until his arrest in Serbia in 2011, when he was transferred to The Hague. His trial is the culmination of ICTY’s two decades of work as the first ad hoc tribunal designed to hold individuals accountable for war-related crimes since the Nuremburg and Tokyo trials following World War II. The Helsinki Commission and its leadership have strongly encouraged U.S. support for ICTY and the cooperation of the countries of the Western Balkans with the tribunal. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.20.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) issued the following statement regarding Acting Secretary of Homeland Security Elaine Duke’s decision to terminate the Temporary Protected Status (TPS) designation for Haiti with a delayed effective date of 18 month, which will expire on July 22, 2019: “Temporary Protected Status (TPS) is central to the United States’ commitment in providing a safe haven to individuals unable to securely return to their home country due to ongoing violence, environmental disasters, or other extraordinary conditions. Haiti still continues to face such conditions, and we must do more to help our Haitian friends. We must help them rebuild their economy, promote the rule of law and human rights, restore clean water, proper sanitation, and reliable power grids. “My passion and commitment to the people of Haiti remains unbreakable. I stand with the Haitian people as we work to help them in their ongoing recovery efforts. As such, it is time that Congress take action and implement a permanent fix. “I am proud to have joined my colleagues Reps. Carlos Curbelo, Frederica Wilson, and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen in introducing the Extending Status Protection for Eligible Refugees with Established Residency (ESPERER) Act of 2017. This critically important bill will provide a pathway to legal permanent residency in our country for those living here under TPS. The clock is ticking, and legislative action must be taken now.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.15.2017	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement after the House Foreign Affairs Committee favorably reported H.Res.401, urging all nations to outlaw the dog and cat meat trade and to enforce existing laws against such trade. The resolution was introduced by Congressman Hastings and Congressman Vern Buchanan (R-FL) in June and currently has 101 co-sponsors. “I commend Chairman Ed Royce (R-CA) and Ranking Member Eliot Engel (D-NY) for supporting H.Res.401, and applaud the House Foreign Affairs Committee for its passage,” said Congressman Hastings. “I hope the House will expeditiously pass this measure. Doing so will reaffirm America’s commitment to the humane treatment of our most beloved companions.” “Furthermore, I am so deeply appreciative to the thousands of supporters who continue to work tirelessly around the globe to end the dog and cat trade. It is my hope that this resolution will bring us one step closer to accomplishing that goal.” “Dogs and cats provide companionship to millions and should not be slaughtered and sold as food,” Congressman Buchanan said. “It’s time to provide important protections for our most popular pets.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.10.2017	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking Veterans Day: “This Veterans Day, I am honored to recognize the brave men and women who have served and defended our country in the U.S. Armed Forces. Our veterans exemplify the very best of our nation, oftentimes serving in dangerous conflicts around the globe in defense of American security. The fact that our Armed Forces are comprised entirely of volunteers underscores the importance of recognizing the sacrifices that come with this service and sets the example for other countries around the world. “We have an obligation to care for service members both when they’re abroad and when they come home. Rates of veteran suicide remain disproportionately high, and many of the three million Americans who have served in Afghanistan and Iraq have Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI), Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) or depression. Congress must prioritize addressing these issues, just as it must ensure that veterans or their eligible family members have access to the educational benefits they are entitled to. We must work collaboratively to guarantee that our veterans maintain access to affordable housing and education, employment opportunities, healthcare and mental health services. “As we celebrate Veterans Day, let us honor those men and women who have defended our country. If you see a veteran today, take a moment to thank them for their service to our nation.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.31.2017	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) joined Representatives Carlos Curbelo (R-FL), Frederica Wilson (D-FL), and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) in introducing the Extending Status Protection for Eligible Refugees with Established Residency (ESPERER) Act of 2017 (Please find attached a copy of the legislation): “I continue to work for a full 18-month extension of Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Haitian nationals, as well as others living here under TPS. I am proud to join today’s bipartisan effort to provide these individuals with a pathway to legal permanent residency in our country. Recipients of TPS are law abiding, hardworking taxpayers, thousands of whom have lived in this country for decades, and who have made tremendous contributions to their communities and to our country. I want thank Representatives Curbelo, Wilson, and Ros-Lehtinen for their diligent work on today’s bill. I call on House Leadership to bring our bill to the floor without delay,” said Hastings. “While hoping and waiting they would be able to return to their native countries for years, Nicaraguan, Salvadoran, Honduran and Haitian migrants have become essential parts of the South Florida community by contributing to our local economy and our culture,” Curbelo said. “The continued short-term extensions of TPS have created anxiety and uncertainty not only for these migrants and their families, but also for their employers and neighbors whose prosperity also depends on them. While I will continue to support extensions for Temporary Protected Status, this bipartisan legislation would give these migrants the peace of mind to continue giving back to their communities, contributing to our economy and supporting their families.” “I am proud to be part of this bipartisan effort to provide a permanent solution for families living in the United States with temporary protected status. I also have introduced a bipartisan measure to extend TPS for Haitian nationals until their country has demonstrably recovered from a plethora of disasters, including an earthquake, a cholera epidemic, a hurricane and other travesties,” said Wilson. “It is in the meantime imperative that we not forget the economic, cultural and other contributions that people living and working in the United States thanks to this measure are making to both to our nation and their native countries. In addition, I reiterate my call to Department of Homeland Security officials to join me on a trip to Haiti to survey firsthand the severe hardships the country continues to endure. There will be no doubt in their minds when they leave that the island nation is in no position to absorb and aid tens of thousands of deportees from the United States.” “So many in our community who arrived under Temporary Protected Status years ago have made South Florida their home,” Ros-Lehtinen said. “These neighbors have become an integral part of our society and contribute to every sector of our economy. I'm co-sponsoring this bill, introduced by my friend and colleague, Carlos, so that Nicaraguans, Haitians, Salvadorans, and Hondurans who abide by our laws are not anxious about deportation, and can instead continue to contribute to the economic prosperity of our local communities.” Background: The ESPERER Act of 2017 provides a pathway for certain nationals of Haiti, Nicaragua, El Salvador, and Honduras, who have been recipients of TPS prior to January 13, 2011, to adjust their status to Legal Permanent Resident. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.13.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after President Donald John Trump announced that he would cut off subsidy payments to insurers selling Obamacare coverage, which will cause immediate spikes in healthcare premiums across the country: “The President announced today that he will purposefully spike healthcare premiums for millions of people. Make no mistake about it: this is not about improving healthcare or trying to help the American people; it is about rolling back anything President Obama accomplished. “Instead of fixing the very workable problems we have, the President and his friends in Congress are purposefully destabilizing the marketplace. Time and time again they have tried to repeal the Affordable Care Act. They have failed every time – not because of Congressional dysfunction, but because they have no alternatives that don’t result in millions of people losing their insurance. This is the second time in 24 hours the President has undermined the ACA marketplaces. The effects will be real and they will be severe. “President Trump now owns this issue. Every premium increase, every denied claim, and every American life lost from inadequate healthcare now lies at Donald Trump’s feet. This is a shameful and tragic day. The American people will remember who destroyed affordable healthcare.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.10.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the passing of Former Vice Mayor of the City of Tamarac, Diane Glasser: “It is with great sadness that I learned of the passing of Diane Glasser this morning. As an activist, former City Commissioner, and Vice Mayor of the City of Tamarac, Diane served our community for more than 40 years. She was a powerhouse of Broward County politics, but more than that, she was a dear friend. Her contributions will no doubt be remembered for years to come. “Before moving to Tamarac in 1973, Diane grew up in Mill Basin in Brooklyn, New York. She was appointed First Vice Chairwoman of the Florida Democratic Party in 2004. Four years later, she was elected to the Tamarac City Commission, where served until her retirement in 2016. Diane served on various boards in Broward County, including the Broward School Board, the Senior Advisory Task Force, and the Broward Human Rights Board, always striving to make our community a better place. “Diane was an Elected Florida Delegate in the last six Democratic National Conventions, and cast her vote in the Electoral College for the State of Florida in 1996 for Former President Bill Clinton and in 2000 for Former Vice President Al Gore. “Diane passed away on October 10, 2017 at the age of 89. She is survived by her son Craig Glasser of Sunrise, Florida. I offer my thoughts and prayers to Craig, her family, and all who called her a friend during this time of great sadness.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.10.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement in response to President Trump’s decision to repeal the Clean Power Plan: “The Trump Administration’s ill-conceived and irresponsible decision to roll back the Clean Power Plan is yet another attack on the health and future of our country. The results of abandoning the Clean Power Plan, the landmark strategy for reducing climate pollution from power plants, will be tragic, dangerous, and costly to our nation’s health. “Time and time again, this Administration has undermined America’s role in combatting climate change. From the reckless withdrawal of the United States from the Paris Climate Agreement to the greenlighting of the climate-wrecking Keystone XL pipeline, the Trump Administration has demonstrated its complete lack of leadership to address the global climate crisis. The dismantling of the Clean Power Plan is the most recent destructive and short-sighted decision which will have serious consequences for our nation." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.06.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after President Donald John Trump’s Administration rolled back access to contraceptives, potentially affecting 62 million women: “The Trump administration’s rolling back of contraceptive coverage is just another obnoxious attempt to insert right-wing politics into private medical decisions. Birth control is not controversial. It is part of basic, comprehensive healthcare and is utilized by nearly nine in ten women at some point in their lifetimes. The President and his friends need to stop obsessing over what women do with their own bodies.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.03.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement announcing the launch of his new congressional website, www.AlceeHastings.House.Gov: “I am pleased to announce the launch of my new, mobile-friendly congressional website. My website is a direct line to my office. Whether it is to request assistance with a federal agency, order a flag, or find out where I stand on the important issues facing Congress, I am here to listen. I encourage all of my constituents to utilize my website and social media pages to stay in touch and share their opinions with me.” In addition to Hastings’ website, constituents can follow him on Twitter and Facebook to receive daily updates. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.02.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the horrific mass shooting that took place last night near the Mandalay Bay Casino in Las Vegas: “Words cannot express the shock and sorrow I feel this morning. I offer my deepest condolences to those who lost loved ones, to those wounded, and to the people of Las Vegas. I commend Las Vegas’ first responders who acted valiantly to evacuate the injured. “Just last year, our nation witnessed what was at the time the worst mass shooting in our history. It is beyond tragic that we are once again confronted by the unspeakable evil of mass shootings in America. As details of this tragedy emerge, there is no question that this shooting must reshape our nation’s conversation about guns. “More than 33,000 people will die from gun violence this year. And unfortunately, the overwhelming majority of Americans killed every day by gun violence never garner 'breaking news' headlines. “Republican Members of Congress have a bad habit of ignoring the devastation brought by gun violence, siding instead with the extreme voices of their party. With each new tragedy that occurs, those who stand in the way of legislation to address our country’s gun violence epidemic are increasingly culpable for its continuation. Today, we come together as a nation to sadly mourn those who lost their lives in this tragic and senseless violence. Let us finally act with a unified voice and with the necessary resolve to stem the tide of gun violence in America once and for all.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.26.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement honoring Dr. Anthony Lockhart on being named Florida’s 2017 Principal of the Year: “I am pleased to honor Dr. Anthony Lockhart on being named Florida’s 2017 Principal of the Year. Dr. Lockhart has shown outstanding merit and dedication to his profession, and has been a source of inspiration for hundreds of students in the Palm Beach County School District throughout his 20 years of service to our community. “Since the start of his career as a youth counselor, Dr. Lockhart has championed equal access to quality education. Since taking the helm at Lake Shore Middle School, Dr. Lockhart’s engagement with teachers, students, and the community has helped to improve the school’s educational standards and dramatically increased its statewide rating. Today, Lake Shore has been recognized for being in the top ten percent of middle schools in a number of categories, and continues to serve as an example for schools in the county and region. “Far too frequently, socioeconomic status, race, and creed dictate the quality of education a child receives. I am privileged to represent people like Dr. Lockhart, who have dedicated their lives to making a brighter future for all our children.” ABOUT: Dr. Anthony Lockhart is the Principal of Lake Shore Middle School located in Belle Glade, FL. The school serves grades 6-8 with 677 students. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.26.2017	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in honor of Ms. Audrey Evans for winning this year’s Angels in Adoption Award. Hastings nominated Ms. Evans for the award, which is given annually by the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute’s (CCAI) Angels in Adoption Program: “I was so pleased to nominate Ms. Audrey Evans for the 2017 Angels in Adoption Award. Audrey’s passion for supporting families whose infants and toddlers have developmental disabilities is truly admirable. Her devotion is personified both in her personal life and her work as a Family Resource Specialist with the Children’s Diagnostic & Treatment Center Early Steps program. “Over the past six years, Audrey’s steady hand has served thousands of families in Broward County as she helped guide parents through early intervention services for infants and toddlers. It was through her own personal journey that she learned the challenges and blessing of parenting a child with special needs. Through her nurturing hand, her visional impaired infant is now a courageous college graduate. “She not only guided her daughter through her college endeavors, but also found the time to graduate with her Bachelors and Masters degree. Despite working, attending school, and supporting her daughter, Audrey also opened her home and heart even more as she became a foster parent for medically complex children. She fostered Nathan for four years prior to his adoption two years ago. Through her love and prayers, Audrey brought him from a medical induced coma to a little boy that is learning to walk and attending kindergarten. “Audrey truly exemplifies the spirit of an Angel in all aspects of her life and is an example for humankind. I was truly honored to present her with this year’s Angels in Adoption Award.” ABOUT: The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute’s (CCAI) Angels in Adoption™ Program honors individuals, couples, and organizations that have made extraordinary contributions on behalf of children in need of families. Since the program’s inception in 1999, almost 2,000 Angels have received this honor. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.18.2017	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) lead the following letter to Acting Secretary of Homeland Security Elaine C. Duke, urging her to extend Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Haitian nationals, who have been residing in the United States and benefitting from this program, for 18 months. Joining Hastings in signing the letter were U.S. Senators Bill Nelson (D-FL) and Marco Rubio (R-FL), as well as Representatives Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Carlos Curbelo (R-FL), Frederica Wilson (D-FL), and Lois Frankel (D-FL). (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter): September 18, 2017 Honorable Elaine C. Duke Acting Secretary U.S. Department of Homeland Security 3801 Nebraska Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20016 Dear Acting Secretary Duke: On May 24, 2017, your predecessor, Secretary John F. Kelly, issued a notice in the Federal Register announcing a six month extension of Temporary Protected Status (TPS), from July 22, 2017 through January 22, 2018, for eligible Haitian nationals residing in the United States. We write today to encourage you to exercise your authority under Section 244 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1254(a)) to extend TPS for Haitian nationals for an additional 18 months at the conclusion of the most recent six month extension. TPS is central to our country’s commitment in providing safe haven to individuals unable to securely return to their home country due to ongoing violence, environmental disasters, or other extraordinary conditions. Haiti continues to face such conditions. The ongoing extraordinary conditions that Haiti confronts today are a direct result of the 7.0 magnitude earthquake that hit Haiti on January 12, 2010 and the major hurricane that hit Haiti on October 4, 2016. The earthquake caused massive environmental disasters and directly affected an estimated 3,000,000 people, nearly one-third of Haiti’s population. Additionally, the earthquake caused massive destruction to Haiti’s infrastructure including government buildings, hospitals, schools, and vital aid offices. The ensuing destruction also created fertile conditions for the spread of cholera that has resulted in the deaths of 9,000 Haitians. Haiti’s recovery efforts have been further complicated by Hurricane Matthew last fall. Hurricane Matthew was the worst hurricane to hit the country in 50 years, taking the lives of over 1,000 people and directly affecting 2.1 million Haitians. The hurricane also resulted in the internal displacement of 175,000 people and left 1.4 million in need of urgent humanitarian aid. In addition to its human toll, it is estimated that Hurricane Matthew resulted in damage that will cost Haiti at least $1 billion or about 11.4 percent of its gross domestic product. This includes extensive damage to Haiti’s roadways, bridges, buildings, and critical infrastructure. As the Federal Register notice for the latest extension indicated, “significant losses of crops and livestock in the regions damaged by Hurricane Matthew impacted the entire country.” Haiti’s agricultural sector was hit particularly hard with crop losses estimated to be $360 million. Furthermore, as noted by Secretary Kelly in his May 24, 2017 extension of TPS, “the damage from Hurricane Matthew and the recent heavy rains are compounding the existing food insecurity experienced by an estimated 3.2 million people.” Additionally, although reports are still coming in regarding Hurricane Irma’s impact on Haiti, we would note that the hurricane hit northern Haiti on September 7, 2017, flooding rivers, destroying crops and homes and further eroding critical infrastructure in rural areas, which has led to many villages being cut off from nearby cities. The Haitian people, and now their government, continue to work diligently to rebuild the country after the earthquake, cholera outbreak, and Hurricane Matthew. This work will be made more difficult if the country must also welcome back over 50,000 Haitian nationals at once. Though some statistics may look encouraging at first glance, a closer look shows a country still struggling significantly to recover from the extraordinary conditions noted above. For instance, although a high percentage of camps for internally displaced persons may have been shut down this does not mean that the people residing in those camps are now in safe and stable housing. Indeed, as Secretary Kelly stated, many of those who are no longer in camps “have moved back to unsafe homes or relocated to informal settlements located in hazardous areas.” Additionally, even with people leaving these camps for unsafe homes and informal settlements, over 55,000 people remain in 31 camps for internally displaced persons. Those living in these camps face gender-based violence and an overall lack of personal security. The Government of Haiti has outlined plans to rebuild the country and boost economic activity, and the United States remains steadfast in assisting Haiti. In order to allow for the full implementation of these efforts, and given the ongoing extraordinary conditions in Haiti, we urge you to extend the TPS designation for 18 months, within all applicable rules and regulations, for Haitian nationals who are currently living in, and contributing to, our great country. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Bill Nelson United States Senator Marco Rubio United States Senator Ileana Ros-Lehtinen Member of Congress Mario Diaz-Balart Member of Congress Ted Deutch Member of Congress Debbie Wasserman Schultz Member of Congress Carlos Curbelo Member of Congress Frederica Wilson Member of Congress Lois Frankel Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.11.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking the 16th anniversary of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001: “My heart is heavy this morning as I remember the terror attacks of 9/11. Like so many Americans, the horrific images of that day are as fresh in my memory as if they happened just yesterday. Our country will never forget the nearly 3,000 victims of this terrible attack, nor the countless acts of selflessness that defined our nation’s response. As we mark this solemn anniversary, I take comfort in knowing that the values upon which our nation is based can never be taken from us.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.05.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after President Donald John Trump announced his intention to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: “President Trump’s decision to terminate the DACA program is both illogical and immoral. Just one day after our nation marked Labor Day, the President’s decision will cost our country tens of thousands of jobs and billions of dollars in revenue. More importantly, this decision tells the more than 800,000 DACA recipients that they are neither valued nor wanted, while in truth, they are invaluable. “DACA recipients are here in search of the American dream: to better their education and to make a better life for themselves and their families. Casting them aside as lawbreakers or criminals is reprehensible. “In February, President Trump pledged to address DREAMERs and immigration reform ‘with heart.’ He promised that he would ‘take care of everybody.’ Just last week, Vice President Pence reiterated that the President would act with ‘big heart’ to ensure that undocumented immigrants benefiting from DACA would be treated fairly. Regrettably, we have been reminded once again just how heartless this President is. “President Trump’s about-face means that Congress must get to work at once to protect DREAMERs. My Republican colleagues now have a choice: stand with their President, or stand with their country. It is far past time for Congress to come together and fix our broken immigration system by providing a path to citizenship that is fair to all people – those who already call America home and those who yearn to enjoy our country’s dedication to liberty and freedom for all.” According to the Migration Policy Institute, approximately 1.9 million people were eligible for DACA in 2016. In order to be eligible for the program, recipients must have come to the United States before turning 16, been younger than 31 on June 15, 2012, and lived in the U.S. since June 15, 2007. In a 2017 Center for American Progress survey of roughly 3,000 DACA recipients, 90 percent of respondents reported having jobs and 72 percent reported being enrolled in higher education. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.28.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on Hurricane Harvey: “As the people of Texas continue to grapple with the devastation caused by Hurricane Harvey, I offer my full support to the thousands of families coping with this tragedy. I join with so many around the country in keeping the people of Texas in my thoughts and prayers. “The threats from this storm have not yet passed, and many of our fellow citizens still face immediate danger and the prospect of long-term displacement from their homes and communities. I thank the first responders and the ordinary citizens working day and night to save lives, as well as those working to keep emergency shelters available to those in need. “When disasters strike, Americans stand together. The road to recovery from this storm will be long, and Congress must act swiftly to give local officials the resources they need to safeguard their communities and begin the painful process of rebuilding. This is a storm of historic proportions, and our response must be equally prodigious. When Congress reconvenes, we must prioritize passing a bipartisan emergency relief package that provides the necessary funding to recover from this horrific storm.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.22.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on President Donald John Trump's address to the nation on Afghanistan: “President Trump declared that Americans are ‘weary of war without victory.’ Americans are weary of war, period. For more than 17 years, our country has waged a seemingly never-ending war in Afghanistan, at a cost of thousands of lives and hundreds of billions of dollars. “The American people deserve to know what President Trump is asking of their sons and daughters. In that regard, the President’s address was unacceptably vague. By refusing to detail the number of troops he will deploy or the missions they will be tasked with, the President has positioned himself to drag out our nation’s longest military conflict indefinitely, in sharp contrast to his statements on the campaign trail. “Further, in openly declaring the end of American-led democracy building, President Trump has doubled down on his administration’s abdication of leadership across the globe. As the Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, I have long championed democracy and human rights reforms in nations making the difficult transition towards free and open societies. In announcing this decision, President Trump has given authoritarian despots tacit approval to continue abusing and violating the rights of their citizens with impunity. “This address underscores the importance of passing a new AUMF dictating a clear and coherent strategy for American military engagements in Afghanistan. Congress has the constitutional authority to lead this conversation, yet for too long has ceded this immense responsibility. Speaker Ryan must making passage of a new AUMF the first priority when the House of Representatives returns to session.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.15.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) issued the following statement on President Donald John Trump’s disgraceful remarks on Charlottesville: "Today’s comments by President Trump were completely appalling. What took place in in Charlottesville was an act of domestic terrorism, not a two-sided affair. "The President has lost all moral authority to lead this nation. By continuing to stand with white supremacists promoting the abhorrent, anti-democratic ideology of inequality, injustice, and fascism, President Trump is fueling the fires of hate. This is completely outrageous, and every single elected representative to Congress, regardless of party, must hold him to account." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.26.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after President Donald John Trump announced that he will ban transgender troops from serving in the military: “President Trump’s announcement that he will ban transgender troops from serving openly in our military is shortsighted and cruel. It will leave our country more vulnerable to the threats we face in the months and years to come. “As many as 11,000 transgender service members currently serve honorably in our armed forces. Arbitrarily discharging them solely because of their gender identity is hateful and unpatriotic. “President Harry Truman abolished the Armed Forces’ policy of racial segregation 69 years ago today. President Truman knew then what our current President is incapable of understanding today: the strength of our military is not found in labels like race, religion, creed, sex, or gender identity, but rather in the bravery and honor exhibited by those that choose to serve our nation.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.18.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after being honored with the Lifetime Achievement Award by the National Security Executives and Professionals Association (NSEPA): “I am so truly honored to receive the Lifetime Achievement Award from National Security Executives and Professionals Association. Throughout my tenure in Congress, including as the former Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and as the current Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, I have long championed security policies to keep our country safe and promote international stability. “NSEPA does critically important work in promoting career enhancement opportunity for African Americans, women, and other ethnically diverse national security and intelligence professionals. A diverse workforce is an American workforce, and empowering minority security professionals builds a stronger foundation for keeping our country competitive and secure. I thank NSEPA for being bestowed with this prestigious award, and remain committed to doing all that I can in Congress to advocate for addressing the underrepresentation of ethnically diverse groups of employees across the federal workforce.” Hastings Being Honored with the NSEPA Lifetime Achievement Award Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.18.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement following the collapse of TrumpCare in the Senate: “The reason that TrumpCare keeps falling apart is because it is cruel. It is simply not realistic to gut programs like Medicaid or end the essential health benefits that tens of millions of people rely upon. TrumpCare puts partisan grandstanding ahead of realistic reforms. “Even after this failure, Congressional Republicans briefly went back to the ‘repeal-only’ approach that would strip healthcare coverage from 32 million people. Given that they have spent the last seven years trashing the Affordable Care Act, it is baffling to me that those pushing repeal haven’t learned a thing. Just hours after announcing this new strategy, the ‘repeal-only’ approach has already fallen apart. “There is no question that improvements to healthcare need to be made. Reforms can be enacted in a matter of weeks, if not days. But when bipartisanship is used as a threat, as Senate Majority Leader McConnell has done in the past, it underscores how the Republican Party isn’t interested in working across the aisle even as people are asking for help. “Democrats won’t let the Republican Party destroy healthcare, but we will work together to improve the system. Speaker Ryan and Majority Leader McConnell should work with both Democrats and Republicans to draft a bill that works for all Americans.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.18.2017	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letter to Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson, urging him to end the hiring freeze of American diplomatic spouses and expedite the review of diplomatic security clearances (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter): July 18, 2017 The Honorable Rex W. Tillerson Secretary of State United States Department of State 2201 C Street, NW Washington, DC 20520 Dear Secretary Tillerson: I write to express my deep concerns regarding the effects of the current hiring freeze on spouses of American diplomats serving overseas. These hardworking and dedicated individuals deserve to not only be hired, but to be hired in a timely manner that also includes an expedited system of review for spousal diplomatic security clearances. As you are aware, the Department of State’s current hiring freeze guidance stipulates that positions which are vacant or will become vacant that were most recently filled using a mechanism other than a Personal Services Agreement (PSA) may not be filled at this time. As a result, Appointment Eligible Family Members cannot be offered positions due to the ongoing freeze on Family Member Appointments (FMAs) and temporary appointments. As the summer transfer season continues, hundreds of American diplomatic positions worldwide will be left vacant, including national security positions at large U.S. diplomatic missions in Moscow, Beijing, and Frankfurt. When the transfer season concludes, Appointment Eligible Family Members (AEFMs) who play essential roles in the day to day functioning of overseas posts worldwide will be unable to fill these important positions. This will not only significantly impact morale and weaken the ability of American embassies and missions to function efficiently, but it may also harm Foreign Service retention, because of the inability of the spouse to work. An equally significant challenge is the long wait times for spouses hired before the hiring freeze seeking security clearances. This backlog has become even more severe, because spouses are not able to finish their security clearances before departing to their new overseas assignment, at which point the process must restart. Foreign-born American citizen spouses are particularly prone to long wait times stretching into multiple years. In an effort to resolve these issues, I respectfully request that you use your authority as Secretary of State to reexamine the hiring freeze of American diplomatic spouses, and work to efficiently fill some of the vacancies in our missions with these motivated individuals. Furthermore, it is critically important that the security clearance process be expedited, in order to ensure that positions are filled in a timely manner. I thank you for your time and attention to this important matter, and look forward to your response. Please do not hesitate to contact my office at (202) 225-1313, should you have any further questions. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.11.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after introducing a House Resolution disapproving of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO’s) World Heritage Committee Inscription of Hebron as a Palestinian World Heritage Site in Danger: “UNESCO’s inscription of Hebron as a Palestinian World Heritage Site is the height of absurdity. It seems as if every time I turn around the United Nations (UN) or one of its agencies is attempting to rewrite Jewish history out of world history. The biased resolution passed last week by the World Heritage Committee is a perfect example of this foolish trend. “The UN does itself a great disservice when it allows these revisionist measures to move forward. In the past year, it has pushed resolutions that have omitted Jewish identity from the Temple Mount, which is the most holy place in Judaism and named for the location of the Jewish Temple that stood more than two thousand years ago, and also chastised Israel for planting ‘fake Jewish graves’ in the vicinity. This is ridiculous and bordering on anti-Semitism. “Even as wars and humanitarian disasters rage across the globe, the UN remains relentless in its anti-Israel agenda. I therefore felt it necessary to introduce this resolution today disapproving of UNESCO’s inscription of Hebron and its Cave of the Patriarchs – the second holiest place in the Jewish faith – as a Palestinian World Heritage Site in Danger.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.10.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after participating in the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe’s Parliamentary Assembly (OSCE PA) 26th Annual Meeting in Minsk, Belarus, as well as multiple bi-lateral and multi-lateral meetings in regards to national security and defense policy in Egypt, Greece, and Lithuania: “I was honored to once again represent the United States and Congress at this year’s OSCE PA Annual Meeting. Our delegation was the largest U.S. delegation to have ever visited Minsk,” said Hastings. “The OSCE PA plays a critical role in multilateral dialogue, which promotes security, human rights and economic development. Throughout the past week, I participated in a number of high-level meetings with senior representatives of OSCE states to enhance cooperation between our countries.” The annual meeting of the OSCE PA, comprised of 57 member states, took place from July 5-9, 2017. Hastings is a President Emeritus of the OSCE PA and currently serves as Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe (the U.S. Helsinki Commission). The agency is an independent organization of the U.S. government comprised of representatives from both the legislative and executive branches. The Commission monitors compliance with the Helsinki Accords and advances international security through the promotion of human rights, democracy, and economic, environmental, and military cooperation. The OSCE PA adopted the 2017 Minsk Declaration with recommendations to national governments, parliaments, and the international community to help shape policies in the fields of political affairs, security, economics, environment and human rights. Over 260 parliamentarians from 55 OSCE countries and several Partners for cooperation participated in the Annual Session in Minsk. This year’s theme was entitled, “Enhancing mutual trust and co-operation for peace and prosperity in the OSCE region.” Hastings offered several amendments during the meeting, which overwhelmingly passed. They included: an amendment to encourage cooperation in shaping a safe and free future for Libya by supporting border security and counterterrorism efforts, fostering political stability and rule of law through dialogue, delivering economic assistance, addressing the migration routes to the OSCE region emerging from Libyan territory, and facilitating Libya’s admission as a unified and democratic country to the Mediterranean Partners for Cooperation at the earliest possible instance; an amendment to encourage participating States and Mediterranean Partner States to build off of the 2016 OSCE Mediterranean Conference “Youth North and South of the Mediterranean: Facing Security Challenges and Enhancing Opportunities” by pursuing initiatives that incorporate youth and civil society into counter-radicalization programs and focus on addressing the needs and aspirations of youth in the Mediterranean region; as well as an amendment to encourage participating States to reinforce democratic progress in Tunisia and other Mediterranean Partner States as appropriate, including through political engagement, security assistance, and increased trade, investment, and economic development. Prior to the OSCE PA meeting, the Congressional delegation travelled to Egypt, Greece, and Lithuania. While in Cairo, the delegation held bilateral meetings with senior Egyptian leaders to discuss regional security and counterterrorism. While in Athens, the delegation met with Greek leadership to discuss security and humanitarian challenges with regards to the ongoing European migration crisis. The trip culminated with the delegation’s participation in the Annual Session of the OSCE PA in Minsk, Belarus. While in Minsk, members of the delegation travelled to Vilnius to review NATO preparedness and evaluate threats to the region. Hastings was part of a Congressional delegation led by U.S. Senator Roger Wicker (R-MS), Chairman of the Helsinki Commission. Also joining this bipartisan and bicameral delegation were Representative Eliot Engel (D-NY), Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee; Representative Shelia Jackson Lee (D-TX), Commissioner of the Helsinki Commission; Representative Steve King (R-IA), House Judiciary Committee Member; Representative Gwen Moore (D-WI), Commissioner of the Helsinki Commission; Representative Steve Cohen (D-TN), Commissioner of the Helsinki Commission; Representative Randy Hultgren (R-IL), Commissioner of the Helsinki Commission; Representative Chris Smith (R-NJ), Co-Chairman of the Helsinki Commission (Minsk Only); Representative Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee (Minsk Only); and Representative Richard Hudson (R-NC), Commissioner of the Helsinki Commission. “I want to sincerely thank Senator Wicker for his leadership in leading this bipartisan and bicameral delegation. I believe that we sent a strong message to the officials that we met with, exemplifying the fact that we are able to work with our colleagues on both sides of the aisle on many of the challenges facing us globally,” concluded Hastings. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.07.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) designated the ancient city of Hebron a “Palestinian World Heritage Site" "in Danger”: "Once again UNESCO has adopted an anti-Semitic and revisionist resolution seeking to write Jewish religion and culture out of world history. This biased resolution, notably adopted by secret ballot, is delusional. It does nothing to positively improve the lives of the Palestinian people. Jewish ties to Hebron are irrefutable, and no UN resolution, however backwards or prejudiced, will ever change that. There is no need for divisiveness in the home of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob that are revered by Jews, Christians, and Muslims." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.04.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in celebration of Independence Day: “Today, I join with all Americans in celebrating our nation’s Independence Day. As we commemorate the 241st anniversary of the signing of the Declaration of Independence, we must recognize that our country’s achievements have not come without great cost. Countless Americans have selflessly given their lives in defense of our nation, so that we may live in a freer world. “While we have achieved great things in our nation’s short but storied existence, challenges facing us seem weightier than any time in recent memory. For too many people across the country, inadequacies in healthcare and education have eroded many peoples’ hope for the future. The American Dream is built upon hope, and until these inequities are corrected nationwide, the principles enshrined in our founding document – liberty, justice, and equality – will never be truly realized. “As we gather with our loved ones, let us remember the principles that bind us together as one people. I wish my constituents and all Americans a safe and happy Independence Day!” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.27.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking the 23rd annual National HIV Testing Day: “Even as the rate of annual HIV infections declines, the HIV/AIDS epidemic remains a pressing concern in my district and across the country. Approximately one in seven people currently infected with HIV don’t know their status. As we mark National HIV Testing Day, I believe it is important to champion regular testing, early detection, and treatment options that allow people infected with HIV to live longer, more fulfilling lives. “HIV remains one of the most significant public health challenges of our time. In particular, African Americans, Hispanics, and young people remain at greater risk of infection. The Affordable Care Act is a critical piece of legislation that guarantees health coverage for people infected by HIV, makes treatment more affordable, and ensures access to cost-free preventative testing. Republicans in Congress are continuing their efforts to roll back coverage, we must fight back against their reckless proposals. I will continue to oppose any changes that will return us to the days when those living with HIV/AIDS had few options for treatment. “This National HIV Testing Day, I encourage everyone to get tested. I will continue working with my colleagues in Congress, healthcare providers, and community leaders to support HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment efforts across the country.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.27.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement after Senate Republican leaders announced that they will delay a vote on TrumpCare: “The Senate TrumpCare bill is indefensible! For Majority Leader McConnell to champion legislation that will purposefully kick 22 million people off of their healthcare is an absurd display of partisanship, which should outrage every American across this nation. “Half a trillion dollars in tax cuts for millionaires and big corporations is not healthcare policy, just as stealing nearly a trillion dollars from Medicaid is not healthcare reform. Republicans are having so many problems with their so-called bill, because they have frozen Democrats out of the process, and put their party ahead of our country. “The Affordable Care Act is not perfect and needs to be improved. I don’t think anyone denies that. However, it makes no sense to throw out all of the progress we have made on a partisan whim, rather than address the real challenges that we can work on together in a bipartisan basis. "Rather than keeping up this charade on the taxpayers’ dime, Majority Leader McConnell should work with both Democrats and Republicans to draft a bill that works for all Americans.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.22.2017	Today, Congressmen Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Vern Buchanan (R-FL) introduced a bipartisan resolution calling on China, South Korea, Vietnam, Thailand, the Philippines, Indonesia, Cambodia, Laos, India and all nations to end their dog and cat meat trade and to enforce existing laws against the trade (Please find attached a copy of the Resolution): “Approximately 30,000,000 dogs and a large number of cats are killed for human consumption annually across the globe. This extreme display of animal cruelty is not only inhumane, but also a threat to public health for citizens and international visitors. The United States must demand that this horrific practice be stopped immediately,” said Congressman Hastings. I am proud to have introduced this bipartisan resolution urging all countries to end their dog and cat meat trade. The resolution affirms the United States’ commitment to the protection of animals and advances the animal protection movement rapidly growing around the world. I want to commend the thousands of supporters and animal welfare groups, who continue to work tirelessly to end the global dog and cat meat trade once and for all. While we still face many challenges, we must remain vigilant in this fight together and make our voices heard.” “Dogs and cats provide companionship to millions and should not be slaughtered and sold as food,” said Congressman Buchanan. “It’s time to provide important protections for our most popular pets.” The legislation has been endorsed by: The Animal Hope & Wellness Foundation, Animal Welfare Institute, Hounds and Heroes, Humane Society International, Humane Society Legislative Fund, The Humane Society of the United States, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), The Vanderpump Dog Foundation, and Willie’s Kids. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.21.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings made the following statement on the 2017 Yulin Dog Meat Festival, which began today in the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region of China: “I find it completely outrageous that the Yulin authorities and Chinese government failed to take any meaningful action to bring an end to this year’s Yulin Dog Meat Festival. This festival and others like it that celebrate the torture of dogs and cats is an abhorrent display of animal cruelty. During Yulin, dogs are burnt, skinned, or boiled alive, have their paws cleaved off while conscious, and are staked to the ground and beaten to death. No one can see these images and walk away unaffected. “It is absolutely shameful that the Yulin authorities succumbed to the pressure of the dog meat industry, rather than listen to the millions of activists around the world. “I proudly stand with the millions of people across the globe and in China, who wish to see this horrific festival come to an end once and for all. I also want to thank the countless activists who continue their tireless fight every single day in order to save and protect the voiceless. “While I am deeply disappointed that the House Republican Leadership did not bring my resolution, H.Res.30, to the floor for a vote before the Festival began. I will not give up this fight! That is why I will introduce a bipartisan resolution this week with Congressman Vern Buchanan (R-FL), urging an end to the global dog and cat meat trade. Our sincere hope is that Congress will expeditiously pass this measure, sending a strong signal to all nations that we will not stand by while the brutal and inhumane treatment and consumption of dog and cat meat continues.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.20.2017	Congressman Alcee Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in observance of World Refugee Day: “We observe World Refugee Day to draw attention to the plight of the more than 65 million people around the globe who have been forced to flee their homes and countries. More than any time in recorded history, war, persecution, religious intolerance, and natural disasters have forced millions of people to abandon everything in order to survive. On this day, we must reflect on the importance of promoting democracy and freedom around the world so that those affected by humanitarian disasters may one day return to their homes. “I have been to dozens of refugee camps throughout my time in Congress, and have seen firsthand the desperation and the resolve held by refugees in search of safety. I commend the work that the United Nations High Commission on Refugees (UNHCR) has done to provide basic resources for refugee populations, and join in urging the international community, the United States included, to do more to accommodate refugees and alleviate suffering, violence and persecution.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.20.2017	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) introduced a House Resolution expressing support for addressing the Arab-Israeli conflict in a concurrent track with the Israeli-Palestinian peace process and commending Arab and Muslim-majority states that have improved bilateral relations with Israel. The concurrent track approach, sometimes referred to as the “outside-in” approach, encourages Arab and Muslim-majority states to improve bilateral relations with Israel as Israel and the Palestinian Authority concurrently work to advance the Israeli-Palestinian peace process. (Please find a copy of the resolution attached): “The Israeli-Palestinian conflict presents an immensely difficult challenge. I continue to support a two-state solution, negotiated between the State of Israel and the Palestinian Authority, and resulting in two states for two peoples, living side-by-side in peace, security, and mutual recognition,” said Congressman Alcee L. Hastings. “In recent years, Israel and some of her Arab neighbors have worked to address common challenges and improve bilateral relations. This engagement is commendable, and it presents a new opportunity for improving the outlook of the Middle East. Although there are rarely, if ever, easy solutions to challenges as complex as bringing lasting peace to the Middle East, Congress should encourage and support those states willing to engage in that endeavor. I am pleased to introduce this resolution today, and thank Representatives Engel and Schweikert for joining me.” “I have long supported a two state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, and I applaud countries in the Middle East that are considering improving their relations with Israel. For several years, I have been hearing the same messages from our Arab allies and from Israel, and I am optimistic. I am proud to support the Hastings-Schweikert resolution that sends a message that the United States supports advancing a two state solution and greater cooperation between Israelis and Arabs,” said Congressman Eliot Engel. "Any Member of Congress who wishes to see the State of Israel live in peace must be heartened to see the increased level of engagement between the State of Israel and her Arab and Muslim-majority neighbors,” said Congressman David Schweikert. “The belief in the vitality of improved bilateral relations between Israel and her neighbors is nothing new, but encouraging Israel’s neighbors to build strong mutually beneficial relationships and trust is imperative to establishing the relationships necessary to finally move past the old road blocks the peace process has faced. Bold leadership is necessary, and we commend any nation that comes to the table in honesty and good faith.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.19.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in observance of Juneteenth, which commemorates the day that the last slaves in the United States were set free: “Two years after President Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation black Americans remained enslaved in parts of the country. It was not until Major General Gordon Granger landed his regiment in Galveston, Texas, 152 years ago today, that all Americans were finally freed from bondage. “The observation of Juneteenth is bittersweet. While holidays like this one remind us of how lucky we are to be alive today, they also remind us that no matter how far we’ve come, the disparities that exist for people of color are still significant. Even after the abolition of slavery, it took another century and a civil rights movement unrivaled in human history to bring freedom to all Americans. And yet, discrimination and inequalities continue today. “I join with so many across the country in drawing from the past generations of Americans who inspired us to dream. We celebrate our freedom and our achievements, and rededicate ourselves to the continued struggle for equal rights and justice for all.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.15.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the 5th Anniversary of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: “Since DACA was launched five years ago, nearly 800,000 young people have received temporary relief from deportation. The program has afforded youth the opportunity to work, go to school, and be active and contributing members of our society. “President Donald John Trump’s administration has undermined DACA, targeting recipients with deportation or stripping the program's protections for minor infractions. We should be building on the success of this program, not undermining our own solution. It makes no sense to educate young people and then turn around and deport them, oftentimes to countries they have never known or have little to no connection with. And yet, the Administration and the GOP controlled Congress have pushed draconian immigration policies that target immigrants and severely impact families and communities. "In marking the success of this program, we celebrate the young migrants who have been given another chance to pursue the American Dream. I am a proud co-sponsor of H.R. 1487, the Dreamer Protection Act, which protects recipients of DACA from being targeted due to changes by the President, and continue to advocate for smart immigration policy and comprehensive reform. I vow to continue to advocate for these youth, and am proud to mark the success of DACA and its recipients.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.12.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking the one year anniversary of the Pulse Nightclub shooting: "Republican Members of Congress have a bad habit of ignoring the devastation brought by gun violence. All too frequently, calls for action go on unanswered - if not entirely ignored - by my Republican colleagues, even as Americans are killed by firearms on a daily basis. "It has now been one year since the shooting at the Pulse Nightclub. Despite the public outcry, protests, and even a Congressional sit-in, the largest mass shooting in the history of our nation could not shake Republicans to break with the extreme voices in their party. No new laws have been enacted and nothing has changed. This to me is absolutely shameful! "On this solemn anniversary, I call on my colleagues in Congress, with particular regard to those who have stood in the way of common sense gun reform in the past, to join me and other Democrats in advocating for smart gun control policies that will save American lives. I honor the memories of those who were killed, and rededicate myself to advocating for the survivors of this horrific mass shooting." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.07.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), Co-Chairman of the House Sugar Caucus, released the following statement regarding the announced agreement in principle to suspend antidumping and countervailing duties against Mexican sugar imports into the United States: “The deal announced yesterday by Secretary of Commerce Ross and Mexican Secretary of Economy Guajardo is a step in the right direction. These types of deals are never easy, and I appreciate the hard work put in by the parties involved. “A number of challenges remain before these discussions are finalized and a final agreement drafted. I am concerned that a loophole permitting for sugar dumping remains in place, which allows for unfair Mexican trade practices to continue. In the past, these practices have put in jeopardy 142,000 American jobs. “I urge Secretary Ross to continue working to ensure the basic provisions of the agreement are achieved as intended. Additionally, I encourage Secretary of Agriculture Perdue to ensure that the United States continues administering sugar policy, so prices and supplies of raw and refined sugar are adequate for U.S. producers.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.06.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement regarding the 2017 hurricane season, which began on June 1st: “Forecasters have predicted that this year’s hurricane season could yield significant and damaging storms. It is critical that all Floridians adequately prepare beforehand. As we enter hurricane season, I will continue to work closely with federal, state, and local agencies to ensure that the necessary resources are available in the event of a natural disaster. “My office has once again prepared a list of resources for the benefit of my constituents and South Floridians, including a preparedness checklist, contact information for national and state-wide emergency hotlines, and locations of emergency shelters. This information can be found on my official website: www.alceehastings.house.gov.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.02.2017	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking LGBT Pride Month: “The start of June marks the beginning of LBGT Pride Month and the 48th anniversary of the Stonewall Riots. I would like to wish all of my friends in the LGBT community a ‘Happy Pride.’ This month, we celebrate the individuals who continue to fight for freedom, fairness, and equal opportunity for all. “I am proud to be an original cosponsor of H.R.2282, the Equality Act, legislation recently introduced in Congress that would amend the Civil Rights Act of 1964 to include sex, sexual orientation, and gender identity among the prohibited categories of discrimination. “Although we continue to make momentous strides toward equality, the Trump Administration and many of my Republican colleagues have turned a blind eye towards the needs of the LGBT community in the United States and around the world. While we still face many challenges, I will always be an advocate for equality and justice in the LGBT community. I encourage my colleagues in Congress and all Americans to join me in doing so. This month, I am proud to recognize and celebrate LGBT Pride Month. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.31.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement in response to reports that President Donald John Trump will pull the United States out of the Paris Climate Accord: “President Trump’s intention to pull the United States out of the Paris Climate Agreement is an irresponsible renouncement of American leadership. The results of abandoning this international framework will be tragic, destructive, and costly, and will undermine the legitimacy of our country on the global stage. “The United States cannot allow its foreign policy to be dictated by irrational nationalistic whims. The 195 signatory Paris Agreement was reached after painstaking negotiations. In signing, our country honored its commitment to leave future generations with a better world. Climate change is real, and we know what causes it. The Paris Agreement commits governments to working together to cap pollution levels and combat carbon emissions, which will reduce extreme climate events like drought, famine, and rising sea levels. “Ignoring our international responsibilities jeopardizes the health and future of our country. President Trump needs to recognize that he is the President for all Americans, not just the privileged few. This destructive and short-sighted decision will have serious consequences, and the President should be held accountable for his irresponsible actions.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.29.2017	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking Memorial Day: “As we mark Memorial Day, let us join together to give thanks to the servicemen and servicewomen that have sacrificed for our country. As we honor their courage, we must reflect on the ideals for which they served and rededicate ourselves to upholding these quintessential American values. “In recognizing those who have bravely served our country, we must acknowledge the many challenges facing veterans today. Although we have successfully cut veteran homelessness by half since 2010, veteran healthcare services are frequently overshadowed by long wait times and insufficient treatment. For others, education and workforce benefits are inadequate to support the transition back to civilian life. It is estimated that 20 veterans die by suicide each day, a figure that throws the failures of our veterans’ healthcare system into sharp focus. Rectifying these issues must take priority in the coming months of the 115th Congress. “With almost 1.7 million veterans in Florida and 34,000 in my Congressional district, I am proud to work closely with the Department of Veterans’ Affairs (VA) hospitals in West Palm Beach and Miami, as well as local clinics and medical facilities to ensure the well-being of the Florida veterans community. Serving those who have served our country continues to be one of my greatest privileges. “This Memorial Day, I proudly join all Americans in thanking those serving our nation, those who have served in the past, and honoring the memories of fallen heroes.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.25.2017	Today, Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Co-Chairmen of the Congressional Everglades Caucus, introduced the bi-partisan Everglades for the Next Generation Act. Senator Bill Nelson (D-FL) introduced the Senate companion. The legislation authorizes Everglades restoration projects that have completed the planning process and are shovel-ready, ensuring that necessary progress in the region continues. (Please find attached a copy of the bill). “Protecting and restoring the Everglades is vital to the overall health of both South Florida’s ecosystem and economy,” said Congressman Hastings. “This bill works to restore this unique ecosystem by ensuring that as final planning for restoration projects is completed, these projects are authorized and brought on line as expeditiously as possible. I am proud to work with Congressman Diaz-Balart and Senator Nelson in ensuring that progress toward Everglades restoration continues as quickly as possible, and that this national treasure is protected for future generations.” “Restoring the Everglades is a top priority,” said Senator Nelson. “There’s simply too much at stake here in Florida to wait around for Congress to pass a water bill every few years. This bill will allow the Corps to begin work on these projects as soon as they are ready.” “I am proud to work with my Everglades Caucus Co-Chair Rep. Hastings to introduce this important legislation. Everglades restoration is a complex, but necessary process. By reducing the red tape after each project is completed, we can help the Army Corps continue preserving this natural treasure. As Floridians, we are fortunate to have the Everglades in our backyard, and we must do everything we can to protect it for future generations,” said Congressman Diaz-Balart. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.25.2017	Today, Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Todd Rokita (R-IN) introduced bipartisan legislation to ease the burden of student loan debt in the United States. The legislation, the Student Loan Lower Interest Rate and Lower Monthly Payment Refinancing Act of 2017, will help parents and students refinance loans at lower interest rates and alleviate their financial burden. (Please find attached a copy of the legislation): “Interest rates on new federal student loans are approximately 3.8 percent. However, there are millions of American’s that are stuck with student loans from the past with much higher interest rates, which takes years to pay off,” said Congressman Alcee L. Hastings. “That is why I joined my colleague, Congressman Todd Rokita, in introducing the Student Loan Lower Interest Rate and Lower Monthly Payment Refinancing Act of 2017. This bipartisan bill will help facilitate quicker student loan debt reduction and help millions of Americans. “We are putting money back in students’ pockets,” said Congressman Todd Rokita. “Student loans are a burden for millions of Americans, but with our new legislation we will be able to help alleviate that burden by making it easier to refinance loans at a lower interest rate. We are creating flexibility that will help yesterday’s, today’s, and future students.” The Student Loan Lower Interest Rate and Lower Monthly Payment Refinancing Act of 2017 will give Americans the opportunity to refinance their loans and take advantage of lower market rates. The bill will also eliminate service contracts and reduce default costs paid by taxpayers. “I believe that in Congress we should be doing more to work across the aisle on bipartisan measures to address the many issues facing this nation,” added Hastings. Student debt is one of those critically important issues. It is my sincere hope that my colleagues will join the Rokita-Hastings’ bill in order to help offer relief from higher student loan rates.” “More than 43 million Americans borrow money from the federal government for their education and the total is a whopping $1.3 trillion. This legislation has the promise to help all of these individuals. In the next decade it will also save nearly $20 billion in Federal student loan programs. This is a great step forward to help our students, past and present,” added Rokita. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.24.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after introducing the Taxpayers Require Urgent Mandatory Protection from Egregious Debt Act of 2017 (the TRUMPED Act) (Please find attached a copy of the legislation): “Since President Donald John Trump’s election, my Congressional offices have received numerous calls and letters expressing concern over his use of Mar-a-lago as an almost weekly retreat. His constant use of his own property is padding his own pockets with taxpayer money, while significantly harming local businesses and straining primary law enforcement agencies to the brink. For instance, over just one holiday alone, the Palm Beach Sheriff’s Office was forced to absorb $250,000 in unforeseen expenses. “It is offensive that President Trump insists on a budget that unequivocally, and without mercy, attacks hardworking Americans, and then has the audacity to turn around and insist that our local police officers, first responders and small businesses suffer under his insistence that he be allowed to enjoy a lavish life style at taxpayer expense. “That is why I introduced the TRUMPED Act. The bill is based on a simple premise: if President Trump wants to make continual use of his properties, then he may do so, but he can't have taxpayers foot the bill.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.23.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the terror attack in Manchester, England, which claimed the lives of 22 people and injured dozens more: “I offer my deepest sympathies to the families of the victims of yesterday’s terror attack in Manchester. As England’s law enforcement continues working to establish the full details of this horrific attack against innocent children and families, the American people stand side-by-side in grief, anger, and resolve. My thoughts and prayers continue to be with the city of Manchester and all of England as they come to terms with this terrible atrocity.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.23.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on President Donald John Trump’s Fiscal Year 2018 Budget: “President Donald John Trump’s FY18 Budget proposal begs the question: who is the President fighting for? President Trump’s budget envisions an America that has abdicated its responsibilities to its citizens; an America that takes a back-seat in innovation, education, research, and economic progress in order to funnel millions in taxpayer funding to corporate executives and special interests. His proposal continues the cruel Republican trend of targeting poor people, eviscerating nutrition assistance programs, and cutting $1.4 trillion from Medicaid. All the while, the proposal relies on pipedream mathematics in a poor attempt to mimic sound economic policy. This entire proposal should immediately be rejected out of hand.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.22.2017	(Washington, D.C.) Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) issued the following statement on Secretary John Kelly’s decision to extend Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for six months to Haitian nationals residing in the United States: “I continue to believe, and will continue to champion, that a full TPS renewal of 18 months is in the best interest of both Haiti and the United States. Haiti continues to face daily challenges from the earthquake that laid waste to the country in 2010, the subsequent introduction of cholera by United Nations’ troops, and Hurricane Matthew, which devastated the country just last year. “As noted by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) Acting Director James McCament in his memorandum to Secretary Kelly, TPS extensions of less than 18 months create needless operational challenges related to adjudicating re-registration applications and employment documents for the more than 58,000 Haitian nationals residing in the United States. These challenges will not only be felt by the United States, but also the newly formed Haitian government, which is not yet capable of handling the influx of such a great number of people. It is my sincere hope that Secretary Kelly will take the coming weeks and months to soberly assess Haiti’s current situation. If he does so, I am confident that he will see the need for a full 18 month extension of TPS.” ###
05.09.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) issued the following statement on the firing of FBI Director James Comey: "The FBI Director's firing cries out for a Special Prosecutor. Up until the moment of his dismissal, Director Comey was actively investigating President Donald John Trumps’ connection to Russian interference in the 2016 election. The American people deserve to know why Director Comey was fired without reason and Donald Trump needs to explain himself immediately.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.08.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letter to Dr. Robert Avossa, Superintendent of Palm Beach County Public Schools, and Robert Runcie, Superintendent of Broward County Public Schools, urging them to incorporate human trafficking education into the curriculums of the public schools systems. Joining Hastings in sending the letter were Representatives Ted Deutch, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Lois Frankel, and Frederica S. Wilson. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter): May 8, 2017 Dr. Robert Avossa Superintendent School District of Palm Beach County Fulton-Holland Educational Services Center 3300 Forest Hill Boulevard West Palm Beach, FL 33406 Robert W. Runcie Superintendent Broward County Public Schools 600 SE Third Ave Ft. Lauderdale, FL 33301 Dear Superintendent Avossa and Superintendent Runcie: We commend you for your commitment to the education of K-12 students in our communities. We know you have worked very hard to provide nurturing and safe spaces to learn which is critical for early education. With this in mind, we write to urge you to incorporate human trafficking education into the curriculums of the Palm Beach County and Broward County Public Schools systems. Given the serious nature of trafficking in persons (TIP), we believe that more must be done to educate students, families, and faculty of the dangers and signs of trafficking, and the resources available for combatting this modern-day form of slavery. As you know, traffickers use force, fraud, or coercion to control victims and subject them to compelled labor or commercial sex acts. According to Polaris, an organization active in the global fight to eradicate modern slavery, there are 20.9 million victims of TIP world-wide. The International Labour Organization, another organization active in the fight against TIP, estimates that more than 5.5 million of these victims are children. Within the United States, Florida has the third highest rate of TIP, and Broward and Palm Beach Counties respectively rank 1st and 4th for in-state TIP incidences. Many child victims of TIP are students in the public schools systems. A 2015 Department of Justice funded study of domestic sex trafficking of minors reported a median age of entry into prostitution of 15. School administrators and staff need to be aware that these reprehensible crimes are taking place right in our community, and that no school is immune from traffickers. Educators and school personnel are well positioned to help identify and report suspected abuse and instances of trafficking. With appropriate training in the risk-factors, warning signs, recruitment, and methods for identifying trafficking, school faculty can save lives by recognizing the signs and intervening to connect students to services. As we are sure you will agree, it is of the upmost importance that we do more to prevent trafficking in our communities. We ask that you join us in moving the discussion forward on how we can best address this alarming issue. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Ted Deutch Member of Congress Debbie Wasserman Schultz Member of Congress Lois Frankel Member of Congress Frederica S. Wilson Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.04.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after H.R.1628, the American Health Care Act of 2017 (Trumpcare) passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 217-213: “The short-sighted bill rammed through today by House Republicans will spell disaster if it’s signed into law. Trumpcare should have been a nonstarter. It will strip healthcare from 24 million Americans, eviscerate essential benefits, and target women and seniors with unfair costs. Anyone who voted for this bill should be ashamed of themselves. “Passing the buck to the Senate is as hypocritical as it is cowardly. The CBO will surely score this measure before it is taken up by the Senate, and every Republican who voted for Trumpcare will have to defend voting for a measure that cuts care, steals billions from Medicare, and gives handouts to insurance companies and the pharmaceutical industry. “President Donald John Trump and his Republican lackeys have accomplished nothing today. Eventually Republicans will have to get serious about improving healthcare for all Americans and not just the privileged few.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.02.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement marking Yom Ha'atzmaut, Israel’s Independence Day: “I am delighted to congratulate the State of Israel on its 69th Independence Day. I join with the Israeli people in celebrating Israel’s storied history and the special relationship between our two countries. “Israel’s story is no less remarkable today as it was when it was founded 69 years ago. Rising from the ashes of one of the greatest human catastrophes the world has ever witnessed, the people of Israel have built a modern, thriving nation. From the high-tech hub of Tel Aviv to the cultural center of Jerusalem, the State of Israel stands out as an example of democracy in a region often marred by violence and oppression. No other country has lived with such constant challenges to its right to exist, yet despite these challenges, Israel has flourished. “Too often, Israel is unfairly targeted on the world stage. As we see a resurgence of anti-Semitism and anti-Zionism, including efforts to boycott, divest, or otherwise isolate Israel, it is more important than ever that we continue to stand with our Israeli allies. “Today, the United States and Israel work together in a number of areas, including energy, medical research, high-tech and innovation, academia, and more. Through partnerships such as the Binational Industrial Research and Development (BIRD) Foundation and BIRD Energy, our countries work hand in hand to advance research and development cooperation in the private sector for the benefit of all. As Co-Chair of the Democratic Israel Working Group, I will continue working with my fellow Members of Congress to build upon the special relationship between our two countries. “I am pleased to mark this Yom Ha’atzmaut, and extend to the people of Israel my best wishes on the 69th anniversary of Israel's Independence Day.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.02.2017	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Congressman Vern Buchanan (R-FL) sent the following bipartisan letter to House Speaker Paul Ryan and House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy. The letter urges them to bring H.Res.30, Condemning the Dog Meat Festival in Yulin, China, and urging China to end the dog meat trade, to the House Floor for a vote before June 21, 2017, the date of the Yulin Dog Meat Festival. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter): May 2, 2017 The Honorable Paul Ryan Speaker U.S. House of Representative H-232, the Capitol Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Kevin McCarthy House Majority Leader U.S. House of Representatives H-107, the Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Speaker Ryan and Majority Leader McCarthy: We write regarding H.Res.30, Condemning the Dog Meat Festival in Yulin, China, and urging China to end the dog meat trade, which was introduced with broad bipartisan support on January 6, 2017. To date, 154 of our colleagues in the House of Representatives have co-sponsored the resolution. We respectfully ask that you bring this resolution to the floor for a vote before June 21, 2017, the date of the Yulin Dog Meat Festival. Given that the Yulin Dog Meat Festival is fast approaching, we believe that it is critically important for this measure to be considered without delay. With the monumental step taken by Taiwan’s legislature to ban the dog and cat meat trade and consumption of such meat, the United States’ position on the Yulin Dog Meat Festival should be clear and unequivocal: dogs should not be killed for the consumption of their meat. Bringing H.Res.30 to the floor for a vote would send a strong message to China, South Korea, Vietnam, and other Asian countries where the dog meat trade is still legal. The Dog Meat Festival in Yulin, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, China dates back to 2009-2010, when it was launched by dog meat traders as a commercial enterprise to boost flagging sales of dog meat. Up to 10,000 dogs are reported to be captured, transported and slaughtered every year for this Dog Meat festival, with more than 10 million dogs killed annually in China for the dog meat trade. Animal welfare groups have found that a significant number of these dogs are stolen pets taken from their homes, still wearing their collars when they reach the slaughterhouse. Many dogs die during transport to the slaughterhouses after days or weeks without food or water, and others suffer illness and injury during transport, such as broken bones. The capture, transport, and butchering of dogs and the consumption of dog meat poses a risk to human health by exposing people to a multitude of diseases, including rabies and cholera. This practice, in our opinion, is completely unacceptable, and can be stopped by the diligent efforts of members of the Chinese government. Although the Yulin city government withdrew as a sponsor of the Dog Meat Festival, it has taken no meaningful action to enforce China’s existing laws and regulations on animal disease control, food safety, or trans-provincial dog transport, all of which are breached by the dog meat trade. Tens of millions of people around the world have called upon the Government of China, the Governor of the Guangxi Autonomous Region, and the Mayor of Yulin to officially end the Dog Meat Festival and stop the mass slaughter of dogs all year round in Yulin. In addition, the majority of people in China do not consume dog meat and dog meat is not a part of mainstream Chinese culinary practice. Millions of Chinese citizens recently voted in support of a legislative proposal by Zhen Xiaohe, a deputy to the National People’s Congress of China, to ban the dog meat trade. We are standing with the millions of people across the globe and in China who wish to see this horrific festival come to an end, and once again sincerely hope that this measure will be brought to the floor before June 21, 2017. Thank you for your time and consideration of our request. We look forward to following up with both of you in person to discuss, and stand ready to do all that we can to assist. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Vern Buchanan Member of Congress Member of Congress Cc: The Honorable Nancy Pelosi, Democratic Leader, U.S. House of Representatives The Honorable Steny Hoyer, Democratic Whip, U.S. House of Representatives The Honorable Jim Clyburn, Assistant Democratic Leader, U.S. House of Representatives The Honorable Ed Royce, Chairman, U.S. House Committee on Foreign Affairs The Honorable Eliot Engel, Ranking Member, U.S. House Committee on Foreign Affairs
04.13.2017	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letter to Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson, renewing his request that the U.S. Department of State do all that it can to ensure the return of Ms. Daniela Torres to the United States, in order to face trial in the deaths of Ms. Deborah Peterson and Mr. Andrew Carr. (Please find attached and below a copy of the letter): April 13, 2017 The Honorable Rex W. Tillerson Secretary of State United States Department of State 2201 C Street, NW Washington, DC 20520 Dear Secretary Tillerson: I write to bring your attention to a case that is currently pending in my Congressional District, State of Florida v. Daniela Torres. I wrote to your predecessor, Secretary John F. Kerry, on January 30, 2015, bringing his attention to the same matter. The case involves the deaths of Ms. Deborah Peterson and Mr. Andrew Carr. Ms. Peterson and Mr. Carr were killed when Ms. Torres, a Brazilian National, was driving her vehicle while intoxicated at twice the legal limit, and crashed into the vehicle Ms. Peterson and Mr. Carr were travelling in. The crash resulted in Ms. Peterson and Mr. Carr being ejected from their car. Ms. Peterson was declared dead at the scene of the crash, and Mr. Carr would die while being rushed to the Hospital. After Ms. Torres was arrested, she was given the opportunity to post a $50,000 bail, which she did. The conditions of her bail were that she was neither allowed to use drugs nor leave Palm Beach, Broward or Martin counties in Florida. She violated the first condition of her bail when she tested positive for a Schedule 1 controlled substance and violated the second condition of her bail when she fled to Brazil in order to avoid her trial. Ms. Torres clearly fled to Brazil in order to avoid justice. This miscarriage of justice is perpetuated by Brazil as it continues its misguided and bankrupt diplomatic stance to not extradite its nationals to the United States – nationals who have been charged with serious crimes here in the United States, and who must face trial so that justice can be served. As you know, Brazil’s stance on extradition leaves the country increasingly isolated as other countries in South America have entered into extradition treaties with the United States. I respectfully request that you continue to put pressure on Brazil to enter into an extradition treaty with the United States, and in the near term, assist in our efforts to have Ms. Torres brought to justice. A justice owed to the victims of Ms. Torres’ crimes as much as it is to their respective families. I thank you for your time and attention to this important matter, and look forward to your response. Please do not hesitate to contact my office at (202) 225-1313, should you have any further questions. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.12.2017	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on Taiwan’s Legislature outlawing the sale and consumption of dog and cat meat: “I applaud Taiwan’s legislature for passing a law to ban both the sale and consumption of dog and cat meat. This landmark animal protection law sends a strong message to other countries where the dog and cat meat trade remains and millions of dogs and cats are brutally slaughtered every year. “Last month I introduced the Dog and Cat Meat Trade Prohibition Act of 2017, bipartisan legislation that will prohibit the slaughter and trade of dogs and cats for human consumption in the United States, and imposes penalties to ensure that individuals involved in the trade are held accountable. On January 6, 2017, I reintroduced H.Res.30 – Condemning the Dog Meat Festival in Yulin, China, and urging China to end the dog meat trade. I believe these measures send a strong signal that no matter where you live, animal cruelty is simply unacceptable. “It is my sincere hope that Taiwan will be the first of many countries to outlaw this barbaric and cruel practice once and for all.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.11.2017	(Fort Lauderdale, FL) Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) issued the following statement in recognition of National Pet Day, which takes place every year on April 11th: “National Pet Day encourages us to celebrate our fuzziest family members and bring attention to plight of many animals who are awaiting their forever homes. This day was founded in 2006 by Pet and Family Lifestyle Expert and Animal Welfare Advocate Colleen Paige, to help raise public awareness about the plight of many different kinds of animals. This is a common sentiment among animal rights activists, and I want to give recognition to all the organizations I have worked with personally in the mission to protect our beloved pets. The Animal Hope and Wellness Foundation, the Humane Society of the United States, and Social Compassion in Legislation have worked extensively to better the lives of our four-legged friends. Together, we recently introduced H.R. 1406, the Dog and Cat Meat Trade Prohibition Act of 2017, a bipartisan bill, which prohibits the slaughter and trade of dogs and cats for human consumption in the United States. “On January 6, 2017, I reintroduced H.Res.30 – Condemning the Dog Meat Festival in Yulin, China, and urging China to end the dog meat trade. This horrific festival dates back to 2009-2010, when it was launched by dog meat traders as a commercial enterprise to boost flagging sales of dog meat. More than 10,000 dogs are reported to be captured, transported and slaughtered every year for this Dog Meat festival, with more than 10 million dogs killed annually in China for the dog meat trade. Animal welfare groups have found that a number of these dogs are stolen pets taken from their homes, still wearing their collars when they reach the slaughterhouse. Many dogs die during transport to the slaughterhouses after days or weeks without food or water, and others suffer illness and injury during transport, such as broken bones. These dogs suffer mentally from watching other dogs being disemboweled and blow-torched in front of them. “This practice, in my opinion, is completely unacceptable, and can be stopped by the diligent efforts of members of the Chinese government. Although the Yulin city government withdrew as a sponsor of the Dog Meat Festival, it has taken no meaningful action to enforce China’s existing laws and regulations on animal disease control, food safety, trans-provincial dog transport, or youth protection, all of which are breached by the dog meat trade. “Activists from across the globe have continued the fight against this barbaric practice. I have been honored to work with the Humane Society International, the Animal Hope and Wellness Foundation, the Vanderpump Dog Foundation, Duo Duo, the Animal Welfare Institute, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), Citizens Lobbyists for H.Res.30, as well as countless other organizations to bring awareness and hopefully change to this inhumane practice and torture of dogs. “I will soon be introducing a resolution denouncing the global dog meat trade, by urging all countries that allow this cruel and barbaric practice to end it once and for all. I do plan on holding another Congressional Briefing on Capitol Hill in the coming months, to provide an opportunity for animal rights activists to speak on behalf of the voiceless. “As we celebrate National Pet Day, I want reiterate my heartfelt gratitude to all those who have dedicated their lives to help, protect, and save animals not only here in the United States, but also across the globe.” ###
04.11.2017	(Fort Lauderdale, FL) Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) led a letter to Governor Rick Scott urging him to adopt the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s (FBI) National Incident-Based Reporting System (NIBRS), which will better track instances of animal cruelty in Florida, including neglect, torture, organized abuse, and sexual abuse. The NIBRS is an alternative to the Summary Reporting System (SRS) currently used by Florida’s state law enforcement agencies. The NIBRS is superior to the SRS in a number of ways. For example, the SRS provides only an aggregate monthly tally of crimes, whereas the NIBRS captures highly detailed information on each incident of crime, thus providing a much deeper understanding of the victims, offenders, and circumstances surrounding the commission of the crime. FBI Director James Comey has set as a goal achieving 100 percent NIBRS compliance by 2020. Joining Hastings’ as co-signers of the letter are: Reps. Frederica Wilson (D-FL), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Charlie Crist (D-FL), and Darren Soto (D-FL). (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter): April 11, 2017 The Honorable Rick Scott Governor State of Florida The Capitol 400 S. Monroe Street Tallahassee, FL 32399-0001 Dear Governor Scott: We write in regards to the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s (FBI) National Incident-Based Reporting System (NIBRS), which has begun collecting detailed data from participating law enforcement agencies on acts of animal cruelty, including gross neglect, torture, organized abuse, and sexual abuse. The NIBRS is an alternative to the Summary Reporting System (SRS) currently used by Florida’s state law enforcement agencies. The NIBRS is superior to the SRS in a number of ways. For example, the SRS provides only an aggregate monthly tally of crimes, whereas the NIBRS captures highly detailed information on each incident of crime, thus providing a much deeper understanding of the victims, offenders, and circumstances surrounding the commission of the crime. FBI Director James Comey has set as a goal achieving 100 percent NIBRS compliance by 2020. The NIBRS also captures data on more categories of crime than the SRS. For example, as advocates for family and animal welfare, it is particularly important to us that the NIBRS collects data on incidents of animal neglect, torture, and organized and sexual abuse against animals. As documented by researchers and published in academic journals, including the Journal of Family Violence, the Journal of Law and Social Deviance, the Child Abuse Review, and the Journal of Community Health, there is a strong correlation between animal cruelty and human violence recognized around the globe. A statistical study published in the Journal of Community Health in 2005, identified that animal abuse is an important predictor of domestic violence. Furthermore, a 2001-2004 study by the Chicago Police Department revealed that, of those arrested for crimes committed against animals, 65 percent had been arrested for battery against people as well. Considering there were 51,425 domestic violence offences reported by the Florida Department of Law Enforcement between January and June of 2016, it is in the interest of the state to report, investigate, and prosecute incidents of animal abuse to mitigate crime and protect our communities. It is important to note that the National Sheriffs’ Association has been a leading advocate for adding animal cruelty as a data set in the Bureau’s collection of crime statistics. The detailed NIBRS data will help in guiding strategies for intervention and law enforcement. Therefore, it is our sincere hope that you will take into serious consideration our request. We stand ready to assist in whatever way that we can to help implement this critically important database. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Frederica S. Wilson Member of Congress Ted Deutch Member of Congress Charlie Crist Member of Congress Darren Soto Member of Congress
04.08.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking International Roma Day: “I am pleased to mark International Roma Day and celebrate the contributions of Roma persons to world history and culture. As we celebrate the great contributions of the Romani people throughout history, we must not lose site of the fact that they continue to face intolerance and are still fighting for equal opportunities for themselves and their families. “To this day, Romani continue to face political and economic marginalization preventing them from participating fully in our societies. In many cases they are systematically discriminated against and denied access to education and fair employment. Indeed, during the global economic downturn over the last decade, we have seen an increase in incidents of anti-Roma rhetoric and violence across the European continent and around the world. “Romani people are on the frontlines of the struggle for greater human rights and dignity. The United States must continue to work to improve opportunities for Roma to participate in the political, social, economic, and cultural lives of their communities. Roma everywhere deserve the opportunity to have a better and brighter future.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.07.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after American forces launched airstrikes against a Syrian government-controlled airfield, in response to the horrific chemical weapon attack that took place earlier this week: “Hundreds of thousands of innocent Syrians have been killed and millions more displaced over the last few years. This week’s chemical weapon attack perpetrated by the Assad regime is a horrific continuation of this violence and a crime against humanity. “It is a sad state of affairs for this nation that Congress has continued to sit idly by while the Executive Branch further engages our military in conflicts overseas without Congressional authorization. This dereliction is no fault of President Donald John Trump’s, but it does our entire nation a disservice. For too long, Congress has not had the opportunity to weigh in on decisions to commit American troops to conflicts abroad. This cannot continue. “If the President intends to further involve American armed forces in this conflict, then Congress has the constitutional authority and responsibility to lead that conversation. A Twitter-based foreign policy will not suffice. I strongly urge President Trump to present a clear and coherent strategy for what he plans to accomplish and what he envisions are the next steps. Congress, for its part, must bring forward a new Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) detailing the confines of future action. I call on the Speaker to bring the House of Representatives back into session without delay to address such a measure.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.29.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after introducing a resolution, Celebrating the Importance of the 15th Anniversary of the Arab Peace Initiative as a Meaningful Effort by Arab Countries’ to the Commitment of Peace in the Middle East. (Please find a copy of the legislation attached.) “I am pleased to introduce this resolution marking the 15th anniversary of the Arab Peace Initiative and commending those Muslim-majority Arab nations that have taken steps to improve bilateral relations with the State of Israel. The Israeli-Palestinian conflict unquestionably remains a major challenge, and the Arab Peace Initiative, adopted 15 years ago, represents a meaningful effort by Arab states to support peace. “I believe the United States must stay actively involved in peace negotiations between the Israelis and the Palestinians, and urge all parties to continue open dialogue. With continued negotiation, this plan can serve as a foundation for normalization of bilateral relations between Israel and her neighbors. On this 15th anniversary, I hope the baseline set by the Arab Peace Initiative will continue to reinforce the desire for further regional security cooperation and stability. “I would also like to congratulate my friend King Abdullah II and wish the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan the very best in taking over the Arab League Council Presidency.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.24.2017	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letter to Secretary of Homeland Security John F. Kelly, urging him to extend TPS Status to Haitian nationals who have been residing in the United States and benefitting from this program. Joining Hastings in signing the letter were Senators Bill Nelson (D-FL) and Marco Rubio (R-FL), and Representatives Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Carlos Curbelo (R-FL), Frederica Wilson (D-FL), and Lois Frankel (D-FL). (Please find a copy of the letter below and attached.) March 24, 2017 Honorable John F. Kelly Secretary Department of Homeland Security 3801 Nebraska Avenue NW Washington, D.C. 20016 Dear Secretary Kelly: We write to encourage you to exercise your authority under Section 244 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1254a) to extend Temporary Protected Status (TPS) to Haitian nationals who have been residing in the United States and benefitting from this program. Through TPS, our country has been committed to providing a safe haven to individuals unable to securely return to their home country due to ongoing environmental disasters and violence that have severely impacted their country. On January 12, 2010, Haiti was hit by a 7.0 magnitude earthquake causing massive devastation throughout the country. The earthquake is estimated to have directly affected 3,000,000 people, nearly one-third of Haiti’s population. In addition, the earthquake destroyed government buildings, hospitals, schools, and vital aid offices, including the United Nations’ mission headquarters. Haiti, to this day, continues to rebuild from this debilitating earthquake. Since the earthquake hit Haiti, the country has not only suffered a cholera outbreak that is responsible for the deaths of, to date, 9,000 Haitians, but also Hurricane Matthew, which made landfall on October 4, 2016. Hurricane Matthew was the worst hurricane to hit the country in 50 years, taking the lives of over 1,000 people and directly affecting 2.1 million Haitians. The hurricane was responsible for the internal displacement of 175,000 people and left 1.4 million in need of urgent humanitarian aid. It is estimated that Hurricane Matthew resulted in damage that will cost Haiti $1,000,000,000, or about 11.4 percent of its gross domestic product. This includes extensive damage to Haiti’s roadways, bridges, buildings and critical infrastructure. Additionally, Hurricane Matthew resulted in tremendous destruction of Haiti’s agricultural sector with crop losses estimated to be $360 million. Within the context of the terrible damage wrought by Hurricane Matthew, Haiti continues its efforts to rebuild from the 2010, 7.0 magnitude earthquake, and recover from the Cholera outbreak of the same year. The United States remains steadfast in assisting Haiti with its democratic development and providing necessary assistance for reconstruction, development, and humanitarian relief. Given the continued difficult conditions in Haiti, we urge your administration to extend the TPS designation, within all applicable rules and regulations, for Haitian nationals who are currently living in, and contributing to, our great country. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Bill Nelson United States Senator Marco Rubio United States Senator Ileana Ros-Lehtinen Member of Congress Mario Diaz-Balart Member of Congress Ted Deutch Member of Congress Debbie Wasserman Schultz Member of Congress Carlos Curbelo Member of Congress Frederica Wilson Member of Congress Lois Frankel Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.24.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) will speak at the following session during the American Israel Public Affairs Committee’s (AIPAC) 2017 Policy Conference on Sunday, March 26th. The Conference is being held at the Washington Convention Center (801 Mt Vernon Pl NW, Washington, DC 20001). DETAILS: WHO: Congressman Alcee L. Hastings WHAT: Speaker at the AIPAC Panel “Regional Outlook: The Middle East in 2017” WHEN: Sunday, March 26th at 4:00 PM WHERE: Washington Convention Center Ballroom A 801 Mt Vernon Pl NW Washington, DC 20001 Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.24.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after hosting a Congressional Briefing this week on Protecting Dogs and Cats from Human Consumption in the United States. Joining Hastings at the briefing were: Marc Ching, Founder & CEO of the Animal Hope & Wellness Foundation, Valarie Ianniello, Executive Director of the Animal Hope & Wellness Foundation, Shannen Doherty, American Actress, Producer, and Author, and Nickolaus Sackett, Attorney & Social Compassion in Legislation Board Member. This month, Hastings introduced bipartisan legislation with Reps. Vern Buchanan (R-FL), Dave Trott (R-MI), and Brenden F. Boyle (D-PA), to protect dogs and cats from being slaughtered for human consumption in the United States. H.R. 1406, the Dog and Cat Meat Trade Prohibition Act of 2017, will provide protection to dogs and cats in the 44 states that currently have no law prohibiting the shipping, transporting, moving, delivering, receiving, possessing, purchasing, selling, or donating of dogs or cats to be slaughtered for human consumption. “The briefing shined a light on the dog and cat meat trade here in the United States. H.R. 1406 reflects our society’s values, and imposes penalties to ensure that individuals involved in this horrific practice are held accountable,” said Congressman Alcee L. Hastings. “I was happy to host a distinguished panel of experts for this important discussion. This bill allows the United States to stand in unity with other countries that have made the dog and cat meat trade illegal, while also giving the United States greater standing to urge other countries to end this brutal and inhumane practice once and for all.” "Thanks to Rep. Hastings for leading this bi-partisan effort to ban dog and cat meat in the United States," stated Nickolaus Sackett of Social Compassion In Legislation. "As Americans we love our dogs and cats and H.R. 1406 is simply a codification of those values." "Animal Hope and Wellness foundation is proud to be the leader in putting this legislation together. It is a stepping stone for our international work and will help in our fight against the global dog meat trade,” said Valarie Ianniello. “Marc and I were humbled to be on Capitol Hill again speaking up for the voiceless alongside Alcee Hastings and Shannen Doherty. And honored to also meet with Kevin McCarthy to bring the Dog and Cat Meat Trade Prohibition Act to his attention. Rep. McCarthy was shocked to learn that 44 states still allow for the killing and consumption of dog and cat meat." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.24.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after the Republican healthcare bill was pulled from the House floor: “House Republicans and President Trump tried to takeaway healthcare from millions of Americans and they failed. Today’s defeat of TrumpCare is a victory for seniors, people with disabilities, veterans, families, children, women, and every one of the 24 million people who would have had their health coverage stripped from them under the Republican plan. “When Congress reconvenes next week, Democrats will continue to stand up for the most vulnerable among us. There are many aspects where healthcare in America can be improved. For many of my constituents, the cost of care remains far too high, while for others, access to care remains a challenge. I, like all Democrats, want to make healthcare better for all Americans. If Republicans are willing to join this process in good faith, I would welcome the conversation and work to make improvements that benefit all Americans. “President Trump’s plan failed today because his legislation did not prioritize the American people. It prioritized a select few – the millionaires and billionaires that President Trump has surrounded himself with – and ripped coverage away from millions of hard working and working poor Americans. I will continue to work tirelessly to ensure that all Americans have access to the healthcare they need. I hope Republicans learn from this experience and begin the process of working Democrats moving forward.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.16.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on President Donald John Trump’s Budget proposal: “President Trump’s budget blueprint sounds more like a bad joke than a proposal for sound policy. His budget sticks it to families across the country, gutting education, research, healthcare, environmental protections, and job security in order to pay for over-the-top partisan pet-projects. “Trump’s $1.5 billion request for construction of the border wall with Mexico is laughable, while his plans to dramatically increase defense spending by $54 billion are absurd. Trump has proposed eliminating homelessness assistance programs, infrastructure grants, and assistance programs for impoverished Americans. This outrageous proposal for America’s future is a nonstarter with anyone not on the fringes of the political spectrum. Not only do I object to it, I condemn it.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.16.2017	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letter to President Donald J. Trump, urging him to raise the issue of the global dog meat trade and the Yulin Dog Meat Festival with President Xi Jinping during his upcoming visit to the United States next month. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter). March 16, 2017 The Honorable Donald Trump President of the United States White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Trump: I write to strongly urge you to raise the issue of the Dog Meat Festival in Yulin, Guangxi Zhaung Autonomous Region, China, and the global dog meat trade with President Xi Jinping during your summit with him next month at Mar-a-Lago. The Yulin Dog Meat Festival is scheduled to commence on June 21, 2017. This festival was launched by dog meat traders as a commercial enterprise to boost flagging sales of dog meat. More than 10,000 dogs are reportedly captured, transported and slaughtered every year for the festival, with more than 10 million dogs killed annually in China for the dog meat trade. Yulin’s dog slaughter takes place in residential areas and public marketplaces, imposing scenes of extreme animal cruelty on local residents, including young children who may, as a result, suffer psychological trauma and desensitization. Animal welfare groups have found that a number of these dogs are stolen pets taken from their homes, still wearing their collars when they reach the slaughterhouse to be brutally killed. These dogs suffer mentally from watching other dogs being disemboweled and blow-torched in front of them. This horrific practice is completely unacceptable! I adamantly oppose these horrendous acts, and believe through diligent diplomatic pressure, it can be stopped. While the Yulin city government withdrew as a sponsor of the Dog Meat Festival, it has taken no meaningful action to enforce China’s existing laws and regulations on animal disease control, food safety, trans-provincial dog transport, or youth protection, all of which are breached by the dog meat trade. More can be done to ensure that the mass slaughter of dogs does not take place in Yulin once again this year. I believe we should encourage the Yulin authorities to take additional steps to protect these innocent animals. First, they can deter the transportation of dogs into the city by issuing a public notice telling all traders to cease their actions. Second, the Yulin authorities should enforce the existing “one certificate per dog” regulation and authenticate health certificates of dogs entering the city. Finally, they should be encouraged to consider building government shelters for stray and confiscated dogs. Yulin’s Dog Meat Festival significantly impacts China’s international reputation. The Chinese government recently announced that it plans to ban all ivory trade and processing activities by the end of this year. This is a major step in the right direction to protect these vulnerable animals that have fallen victim to a heinous crime. In kind, the Yulin authorities have an opportunity to protect the innocent dogs being slaughtered and consumed annually by enforcing existing national government policies to end these practices. In Congress, I have reintroduced a bipartisan resolution, H.Res.30, which condemns the Yulin Dog Meat Festival and urges China to end the dog meat trade. The resolution currently has 118 co-sponsors. Furthermore, I believe that we must be mindful of our own laws in the United States pertaining to the dog and cat meat trade. That is why I recently introduced H.R. 1406, the Dog and Cat Meat Trade Prohibition Act of 2017, which is bipartisan legislation prohibiting the slaughter of dogs and cats for human consumption in the United States. I proudly introduced this measure with Representatives Vern Buchanan (R-FL), Dave Trott (R-MI), and Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA). Mr. President, the atrocities of the dog meat trade taking place in China are opposed by a growing number of Chinese people and the United States can and must do more to speak out on this issue. Once again, I urge you to raise this issue in your upcoming meeting with President Xi. Thank you for your time and consideration of my concerns, and I respectfully look forward to your reply. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.07.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after introducing bipartisan legislation prohibiting the slaughter of dogs and cats for human consumption in the United States. Joining Hastings in introducing the legislation, which has been endorsed by The Humane Society of the United States and The Animal Hope and Wellness Foundation, were Representatives Vern Buchanan (R-FL), Dave Trott (R-MI), and Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA). (Please find a copy of the legislation attached.) “In much of the United States it is still legal to slaughter dogs and cats for the purpose of human consumption,” said Congressman Hastings. “It is long overdue for Congress to unify animal cruelty laws across our country to explicitly ban the killing and consumption of these animals. I am pleased to join my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to end this cruel and inhumane practice.” “Dogs and cats provide companionship to millions of Americans and should not be slaughtered and sold as food,” said Congressman Buchanan. “This bill will update our animal cruelty laws to provide important protections to America’s most popular pets.” “As a proud dog owner, I understand what an important part of our families our four-legged friends are and I believe that they should be treated with the utmost respect. I am proud to join my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to stand strong against the dog and cat meat trade and advocate for the humane treatment of our beloved animals,” said Congressman Trott. “The fact that this legislation is even necessary today is astonishing. It is past time for us to outlaw such a cruel and barbaric practice once and for all. The Dog and Cat Meat Trade Prohibition Act of 2017 will finally make it illegal to slaughter animals most of us think of as family members. It is my hope that, with the passage of this bill, the United States will no longer be party to this disgusting practice,” said Congressman Boyle. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.07.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after House Republicans revealed their bill to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act (ACA): “It took Republicans seven years of undermining the ACA to finally come up with a proposal for replacing it. Their plan would kick millions of Americans off their health insurance and force millions more to pay higher premiums. It would take healthcare away from the poor, give tax cuts to the rich, and pull the rug out from under seniors, families, and children. “Truly, this plan is so bad that Republicans literally hid the proposal from the public, at the same time refusing to discuss or share the bill with Democrats and callously brushing off the pleas from Americans supportive of the ACA. Even as the uninsured rate has fallen substantially, Republicans continue to ignore the benefits of the ACA in order to placate their political base. “I am reminded today of President Obama’s healthcare summit with Congressional leaders seven years ago. For nearly eight hours, Republicans in attendance rose, one-at-a-time, to reject the proposal in its entirety without offering any ideas for moving forward together. Since then, the Republican Party has obstructed the ACA for political reasons, harming countless Americans in the process in order to appeal to the fringe members of their party. “Republicans in the House have voted more than 60 times to repeal, weaken, or undermine the ACA, wasting valuable time and resources. If they were truly serious about fixing healthcare in our country, they would work with Democrats to reach a compromise that would truly improve and extend care. However, I am not holding my breath.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.06.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement in response to President Donald John Trump’s new executive order banning Muslims and refugees from Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, and Yemen from entering the United States: “It’s perplexing that President Trump, who’s first Muslim and refugee ban was shot-down by multiple courts, has once again attempted to prohibit the same groups from entering the United States. No matter how you repackage it, this new executive order is still immoral, discriminatory, unconstitutional, and un-American. Furthermore, by removing Iraq from the list of banned nations, President Trump has exposed just how arbitrary this action truly is. “Doubling down on this shameful policy will not make America safer – rather, it will put Americans at risk. President Trump should take the hint from the countless Americans that protested the first time he took this un-American action that his misguided priorities are not who we are as a nation. “Rather than attempting to distract the American public, the President must answer for his Attorney General’s act of perjury before the Senate Judiciary Committee, his reckless and unsubstantiated wiretapping claims, and his administration’s ties to the Russian government. The American people deserve to know the truth.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.02.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) today called for the resignation of Attorney General Jeff Sessions, after it was revealed that he lied under oath during his Senate confirmation hearing about contact with Russian officials: “During his Senate confirmation hearing, Jeff Sessions told the Senate Judiciary Committee that he did not have communications with the Russian government during Mr. Trump’s campaign. We now know this statement, made under oath, was a lie. Attorney General Sessions must resign immediately, or President Trump must fire him, and the FBI must launch an investigation into his actions. “Mr. Sessions no longer has any credibility to oversee the FBI’s investigation of the Trump administration’s connections to Russian agents. For weeks, Democrats have called for an independent investigation of Mr. Trump’s ties to Russia, both throughout his campaign and in his administration. Such an investigation is now necessary beyond a shadow of a doubt. “Hardly a day goes by without new shocking revelations coming to light about the Trump Administration’s improprieties. The American people deserve to know the truth about Mr. Trump’s connections to Russia, and they deserve to know without delay.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.28.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement in response to President Donald John Trump’s first address to a joint session of Congress: “When the President took office, I made it clear that I would work with his administration wherever possible. Even though we disagree on many issues, the role of the President is to facilitate national debates with the serious attention they deserve. To this end, I have been consistently disappointed by the first weeks of the President’s Administration. “The United States is at its best when we draw strength from each other. President Trump has taken the opposite tact, surrounding himself with sycophants, lambasting the independent media, and censuring anyone who thinks differently. Ridiculing the minority is un-presidential, and the only thing tonight’s speech accomplished was to illustrate just how little the President understands about America. “The President has been in office for just 40 days, yet he has already established himself as one of the most reckless in American history. President Trump continues to champion divisive policies that would decimate safety-net programs, while propping up his own wasteful pet projects like the border wall with Mexico. These proposals would be laughable if they weren’t so frighteningly ill-conceived. “At this point during the Obama Administration, the President had already proposed and signed into law a plan that would create millions of jobs and jumpstart the American economy. President Obama, four weeks into his Administration, had already signed legislation to support fair pay for women and expand health insurance for children. When he came before Congress for his first joint session, he presented a vision of an America for all. “Four weeks into his administration, President Trump has presented no jobs bill, no plan for healthcare, and has offered nothing to improve the lives of everyday Americans. Instead, he has elevated a white supremacist to the National Security Council and been caught pressuring the FBI to undermine an investigation of the Administration’s ties to Russian intelligence. This is, quite simply, unacceptable. “Throughout the past week, concerned Americans attended town halls across the country. And for those who were actually able to meet with their Republican Representative in Congress, the conversations focused on protecting healthcare, creating jobs, and protecting the environment. They did not ask for fewer workplace protections, nor did they ask Congress to make it easier for people with severe mental illnesses to purchase guns. They did not ask Congress to undermine retirement security or ease disclosure requirements for oil companies making payments to foreign governments. Yet, these are the things that President Trump and the Republican Party have championed. “These are policies of a cynical and callous government, and Democrats will not sit idly by while President Trump and his Republican allies continue their efforts to unravel this great nation.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.27.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), released the following statement after participating in the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe’s Parliamentary Assembly (OSCE PA) 17th Annual Winter Meeting in Vienna, Austria and multiple bi-lateral and multi-lateral meetings in regards to national security and defense policy in Italy, Jordan, and Israel: “I was privileged to once again represent the United States and the U.S. Congress at this year’s OSCE PA Annual Winter Meeting. The OSCE’s 57 member states play a key role in facilitating inter-parliamentary dialogues that promote democracy. Throughout the last week, I participated in a number of important meetings addressing human rights, international security, and the importance of democratic institutions,” said Hastings. Hastings, a President Emeritus of the OSCE PA, serves as Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe (the Helsinki Commission). The agency is an independent organization of the U.S. government comprised of representatives from both the legislative and executive branches. The Commission monitors compliance with the Helsinki Accords and advances international security through the promotion of human rights, democracy, and economic, environmental, and military cooperation. In Italy, the delegation met with Vice Admiral Christopher W. Grady, Commander, U.S. 6th Fleet and Deputy Commander, U.S. Naval Forces Europe, where they received briefings on Russian military operations in the region. While in Jordan, meetings were held with His Majesty King Abdullah II, where they discussed U.S.-Jordanian bilateral relations, regional topics of Russia, Iran, counterterrorism, the Middle East peace process, the Syrian Civil War, and the Syrian Refugee crisis. The delegation also met with the U.S. Ambassador to Jordan Alice Wells, along with other U.S. government officials and key Jordanian leaders. This was Hastings eighteenth trip to Israel as a Member of Congress. The delegation met with Israeli Defense Minister and Yisrael Beitenu Party Leader Avigdor Lieberman to discuss Israel’s foreign policy priorities and U.S.-Israel bilateral relations. Meetings were also held with Israeli Deputy Minister for Diplomacy in the Prime Minister’s Office and Kulanu Member of the Knesset Michael Oren, in order to review the ongoing security and political challenges facing Israel and to reaffirm the enduring strength of the U.S.-Israel bilateral relationship. Furthermore, a meeting was held with the Political Director of the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs Alon Ushpiz to discuss challenges and opportunities for Israeli foreign policy. Lastly, the delegation met with the Consul General Donald A. Blome and U.S Security Coordinator for Israel and the Palestinian Authority Lt. Gen. Frederick Rudesheim, as well as the Chargé d’Affaires Leslie Tsou and other U.S. government officials. “Given current events taking place in the region, I was pleased to have this important opportunity to meet with senior Israeli leaders on a wide range of issues concerning political developments in Israel, regional security in the Middle East, the peace process, and the U.S.-Israeli bilateral relationship. The relationship between America and Israel is paramount. Our countries work together in so many areas, from security to renewable energy, high-tech, medical research, and academic exchanges. I am deeply appreciative to the Israeli government for our substantive conversations on how to continue strengthening our relationship with Israel in the years to come. “In addition, I was pleased to engage in a number of high-level meetings with representatives of the government of Jordan, one of the United States’ closest partners for peace in the region. As regional security threats loom, it is more important than ever that we continue this valued partnership,” further noted Hastings. Hastings was part of a Congressional delegation led by Senator Roger Wicker (R-MS). Also joining this bipartisan and bicameral delegation were Senator Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-AL), Congressman Steve Cohen (D-TN), Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Congressman Eliot Engel (D-NY), Congressman Richard Hudson (R-NC), Congressman Trent Kelly, and Congressman Steve King (R-IA) (Austria portion only). Over 200 parliamentarians gathered in Vienna for the OSCE PA Winter Meeting, which featured a special debate on “Promoting Human Rights in Times of Crisis.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.27.2017	Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Co-Chairs of the Congressional Everglades Caucus, will host a caucus meeting to discuss legislative issues important to the 16 counties that comprise the South Florida Water Management District (SFWMD). The meeting will focus on the Herbert Hoover Dike, Kissimmee River restoration, Indian River Lagoon-South, and the Caloosahatchee River West Basin Storage Reservoir. The meeting will be held on Wednesday, March 1, 2017 at 9:00 AM in room 2253 of the Rayburn House Office Building. Confirmed panelists include: Hendry County Commissioner Karson Turner (Chair, County Coalition) Martin County Commissioner Doug Smith (Treasurer, County Coalition) Palm Beach County Commissioner Melissa McKinlay (Secretary, County Coalition) DETAILS: WHO: Representatives Alcee L. Hastings and Mario Diaz-Balart WHAT: Congressional Everglades Caucus Meeting WHEN: Wednesday, March 1st at 9:00 AM WHERE: Room 2253 of the Rayburn House Office Building Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.24.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after the Trump Administration rescinded protections for transgender students enacted by President Obama: “In rescinding guidance issued by President Obama’s Administration, President Trump has abandoned transgender students across the country. I am deeply disappointed by the Administration’s retraction of these important protections that benefit nearly 150,000 transgender students. “This is not a states’ rights issue as the White House has falsely claimed. Title IX prohibits all public schools from discriminating against students based on sex. All students, regardless of sex or gender, are deserving of equal protections under the law, period. The White House should not be picking and choosing which students are deserving of federal protections. “Passing the buck under the false pretense of 'states’ rights' is not acceptable leadership. President Trump continues to abdicate his responsibilities as President. In recent years, great progress has been made in fully recognizing the equal rights due to the LGBTQ community, and I will continue to push for more progress, not less.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.21.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after a wave of bomb threats were phoned into Jewish Community Centers and Institutions this week: “For the fourth time in five weeks a wave of bomb threats has threatened Jewish Community Centers across the country. These threats of violence are deeply alarming, particularly against the backdrop of growing rates of anti-Semitic attacks and vandalism throughout the United States. “This wave of hate requires urgent action, and I urge Attorney General Sessions and FBI Director Comey to take the appropriate steps to combat this growing trend. I again extend my gratitude to law-enforcement officials and all those working to find those responsible.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.16.2017	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent letters to United States Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, Chinese Ambassador Cui Tiankai, Speaker of the House of Representatives Paul Ryan, and House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, urging them to take actions to combat the global dog meat trade and the annual Dog Meat festival in Yulin, China. (Please find attached a copy of the letters to Secretary Tillerson, Ambassador Cui, Speaker Ryan, and Majority Leader McCarthy.) “As the 115th Congress gets underway, I continue to push for the passage of H.Res.30, my resolution condemning the annual dog meat festival in Yulin, China and calling on the Chinese Government to end the dog-meat trade. The Yulin festival celebrates animal cruelty. Practices like this have no place in the 21st century, and I am pleased to lead this effort to advocate for animal welfare standards across the globe,” said Congressman Hastings. During the Yulin Dog Meat Festival, 10,000 dogs are slaughtered. More than 10 million dogs are killed for human consumption every year in China. The trade often includes criminal activity and the theft of pets, and poses a serious risk to human health. The World Health Organization (WHO) has linked the trade to trichinellosis, cholera and rabies. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.14.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings released the following statement in response to the resignation of National Security Advisor Michael Flynn: “Michael Flynn’s resignation just three weeks into President Trump’s Administration underscores the severity of the threat of Russian influence on the President. The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) must move expeditiously to investigate Flynn to determine the extent of his illegal communications with the Russian government, to what degree President Trump was involved, and what actions the White House took after being informed of these communications nearly one month ago. “It is noticeable that the House Oversight Committee has remained silent through a number of Trump Administration blunders. House Republican leadership must stop stalling and establish an independent commission to fully investigate Russian influence in the American election and President Trump’s Administration. At this point, anything otherwise should be seen as complicit.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.11.2017	Today, Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Co-Chairmen of the Congressional Everglades Caucus, celebrating the 18th Annual Everglades Day to promote awareness, appreciation and understanding of this fragile ecosystem, made the following statement: “Everglades Day highlights the importance of preserving and protecting the River of Grass for all future generations of Americans to enjoy,” said Congressman Hastings. “The ecological importance of this unique ecosystem reverberates far beyond the Sunshine State. While much has been accomplished to restore the Everglades, there is still much work left to be done. Restoring the Everglades is neither a Democratic nor a Republican issue, but a Florida issue. Today we celebrate all the Everglades has to offer, and as Co-chairman of the Congressional Everglades Caucus, I remain committed to restoring and revitalizing this unique ecological treasure.” “I thank the organizers and hosts for bringing awareness to the Everglades, a beautiful part of Florida’s ecosystem. I am proud to join my Everglades Caucus Co-Chair, Congressman Hastings, in working to preserve and protect this beautiful natural treasure. I will fight for the necessary federal funding to continue the important work of restoring the Everglades,” said Congressman Diaz-Balart. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.08.2017	Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Carlos Curbelo (R-FL) have reintroduced H.R. 943, the Finding Innovative Lionfish Elimination Technologies (FILET) Act of 2017, legislation that would award competitive grants to universities and nonprofit research organizations focused on eliminating this invasive species. (Please find a copy of the legislation attached.) “The invasive Lionfish has wreaked havoc throughout the oceans along the Southeastern United States,” said Congressman Hastings. “Damage to reefs and marine life has detrimental effects on the economies of these areas. This bipartisan legislation will spur innovation and the development of technologies to help eradicate this invasive species, protecting both the ecosystems and economic livelihoods of the communities affected. I thank Congressman Curbelo for his leadership in this area and for reintroducing this legislation with me.” “For decades, coastal communities along the Atlantic Ocean and Gulf of Mexico have faced a growing ecological and economic threat from Lionfish,” said Congressman Curbelo. “As private entities continue to research new and innovative ways to combat this invasive species, government should allocate resources to address this major risk to South Florida’s marine fisheries, habitats, and eco-systems.” Lionfish have no natural predators in our region and a single female lionfish can spawn up to 2 million eggs per year. They’ve been known to consume up to 40 sportfish per day, which has had devastating effects on the recreational fishing industry in South Florida. Lionfish also consume herbivores, which clean algae from our coral reefs. Without these herbivores, algae continue to grow, resulting in detrimental consequences to the health of our coral reefs. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.07.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) issued the following statement in recognition of the 17th Annual National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day: “Seventeen years ago, National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day was first observed in order to raise awareness about the impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic on African Americans. Today, National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day continues to serve as a valuable mobilization effort encouraging African Americans to be aware, be informed, and to get treated. “Unfortunately, what was true last year and in years prior remains true today: HIV/AIDS affects African Americans more than any other racial or ethnic group in the United States. While African Americans represent only 12 percent of the population, they account for almost 45 percent of new HIV diagnoses each year. Of those new diagnoses, an estimated 57 percent are gay or bisexual men, or men who have sex with men (MSM). And of that group, 39 percent are young men aged 13 to 24. Despite this harsh reality, I am committed to ending this pandemic once and for all. “Thanks to medical advances, people are living longer and healthier lives, but there is still much to be done in order to meet our goal of zero new infections and zero new deaths. While various barriers exist to African Americans infected with HIV/AIDS, such as stigmas, equal access to healthcare and higher rates of poverty, we have the power to make an HIV/AIDS-free society. “On this National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day, I pledge to continue working with my colleagues in Congress, healthcare providers, and community leaders to support HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment efforts.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.01.2017	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement in recognition of Black History Month: “Black History Month is an opportunity to celebrate the rich traditions of African American culture and to recognize the countless contributions African Americans have made to our society. African Americans have done much to shape America into the nation it is today, and I take great pride in the achievements of our community. “As we reflect on these accomplishments, we must also remember that great injustices still exist. Our nation finds itself refighting many of the struggles of past generations as the hard-fought victories of the Civil Rights Movement face new threats. Voter suppression laws that disproportionally affect communities of color have been enacted in dozens of states, while other disparities in wealth, education, and employment are commonplace amongst minority communities. These issues affect all Americans, and we must all work together to address them. “This month, I draw inspiration from leaders like the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., Congresswoman Shirley Chisholm, Justice Thurgood Marshall, and President Barack Obama. Let us each mark Black History Month by rededicating ourselves to the fight for equality for all Americans.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.01.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after President Donald Trump nominated Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court of the United States: “President Trump has, not surprisingly, squandered his opportunity to nominate a mainstream jurist respected across the aisle. In nominating Judge Neil Gorsuch, President Trump selected a fringe jurist with a history of issuing troubling decisions. In the past, he has sided with employers meddling in their female employees’ healthcare decisions, defended the rights of Wall Street over the rights of working families, and been particularly hostile towards anti-discrimination laws and criminal justice reforms. Judge Gorsuch’s record suggests that he will dismantle critical federal regulations, overturn Roe v. Wade, and would be corporations’ dream justice. “President Trump had a great opportunity to repair the damage that Senate Republicans inflicted on America when they took an empty Supreme Court seat hostage almost a year ago. After what Republicans did to President Obama and Judge Merick Garland, President Trump’s demand for a speedy confirmation for Neil Gorsuch is laughable at best. “If Judge Gorsuch is confirmed, there is no doubt that fringe Republicans will be celebrating. Women, workers, consumers, and mainstream Americans will have far less to celebrate.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.01.2017	Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Tom Rooney (R-FL) on Tuesday introduced H.Res.77, a House Resolution encouraging the development of best business practices for fair hiring practices. The resolution encourages businesses to provide minorities with fair opportunities to participate at the highest levels. (Please find a copy of the Resolution attached.) “It is important that we continue working to ensure a level playing field for minorities and underrepresented groups in companies and organizations across the country,” said Congressman Alcee L. Hastings. “I am pleased to join with Congressman Tom Rooney in introducing this bipartisan resolution. Furthermore, I also want to thank Senator Tim Scott for introducing the companion resolution in the Senate, and for his steadfast commitment of moving this critically important issue forward. It is my sincere hope that we will see swift passage of this measure in both chambers” “The success we have seen from the Rooney Rule in the NFL is evidence that people of all genders, colors, and physical abilities can achieve excellence when given the chance,” Rooney said. “We hope this resolution encourages the private sector to emulate the policy and put into place their own voluntary initiatives for a more diverse pool of applicants for senior and leadership positions.” The House Resolution is modeled after a successful National Football League (NFL) policy known as “The Rooney Rule.” The Rooney Rule, formulated by Daniel Rooney – uncle of Congressman Rooney and chairman of the Pittsburg Steelers football team – requires each NFL team with a job opening for a coach or general manager position to interview at least one minority candidate for that position. The purpose of the rule was to ensure that minority coaches, especially African Americans, would be considered for high level coaching positions. After its implementation, the percentage of African American coaches in the NFL rose from six percent to 22 percent. Senator Tim Scott (R-SC) has introduced the companion resolution in the Senate. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.31.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after President Donald Trump fired Acting Attorney General Sally Yates: “President Trump’s dismissal of Acting Attorney General Sally Yates is an alarming escalation of his administration’s vilification of dissent. The Attorney General owes his or her loyalty to the law, not the White House. President Trump appears to have a fundamental misunderstanding of what it means to honor our country’s dedication to the rule of law. “When Cabinet nominees are vetted, they are asked whether they will stand up to the President if ordered to enforce illegal actions. In refusing to enforce an executive action that is both illegal and immoral, Mrs. Yates demonstrated the exact characteristics we seek out in our Attorneys General. I commend Mrs. Yates for her distinguished record of service, and her courage in taking a stand against injustice.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.27.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking International Holocaust Remembrance Day: “I join with others around the world in observing International Holocaust Remembrance Day and honoring the millions of lives tragically cut short during the worst genocide in human history. Between 1940 and 1945, two out of every three Jews in Europe perished, and by the end of World War II, nearly eleven million people had been murdered by the Nazis. “Today, a global resurgence in anti-Semitism has emerged, to which the United States is not immune. In recent months, acts of intimidation and violence against Jewish Americans and other minorities have increased dramatically. I have no doubt that the demagogic campaign run by President Trump – a campaign to divide our nation that has yet to cease – has fostered an atmosphere that allows those who embrace bigotry to be emboldened. Scores of anti-Semitic hate crimes have occurred in our country in recent months, including numerous bomb-threats and acts of harassment throughout my home state of Florida. I condemn these acts of hate and pledge to continue doing my part to combat intolerance. “As we observe International Holocaust Remembrance Day, we must do more to fight back against bigotry. Blind hatred has no place in our world, and each of us has the responsibility to make our own communities safer, more tolerant places.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.25.2017	Today, Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Rob Woodall (R-GA) introduced a bi-partisan resolution condemning Palestinian incitement and reaffirming America’s commitment to Israel (Please find attached a copy of the resolution): “Hundreds of terrorist attacks have been carried out in Israel throughout the past year and a half. Even as stabbings, shootings, and car-ramming attacks occur nearly every day, the international community has failed to clearly condemn these blatant acts of terrorism. That is why Rep. Woodall and I introduced this bi-partisan resolution, which clearly illustrates the severity of the violence and urges the international community to speak up. Unless the Palestinian government and leaders around the world unequivocally condemn these acts of terror, there is little chance it will stop,” said Congressman Alcee L. Hastings. “The United States has no greater friend than the State of Israel, and our commitment to its people must be unwavering,” said Congressman Rob Woodall. “The Palestinian Authority’s incitement of violence and acts of terror against the people of Israel has led to more than 300 incidents since 2015 – most recently on January 8 of this year when four Israel Defense Forces cadets were killed and 17 more wounded by a Palestinian attack in Jerusalem. Condemning these acts and standing with our friend and ally is crucial to the safety of Israel, the region, and freedom-loving people across the world. I’m proud to again partner with my good friend Rep. Hastings in introducing this resolution, and am grateful for his leadership on this issue.” The resolution, Condemning Palestinian incitement and reaffirming the special bond between Israel and the United States, lists 266 of the more than 300 terror attacks carried out in Israel since September 2015, beginning with the first lone-wolf attack and ending with the vehicular-ramming attack that occurred on January 8, 2017 on Jerusalem’s Armon Hanatziv promenade. According to Israel’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Palestinian terrorists have targeted Israeli citizens in 169 stabbings, 124 shooting, 51 vehicular attacks, and 1 vehicle bombing since the wave of violence began in September 2015. Hastings and Woodall introduced a similar resolution in the 114th Congress. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.25.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after President Donald Trump signed two Presidential Memoranda to advance the Keystone XL and Dakota Access Pipelines: “President Trump’s decision to revive the Keystone XL and Dakota Access Pipelines is a clear demonstration that he puts the oil industry above the interests of the American people. It is very disappointing that on the same day that Senate Democrats proposed a historic plan to rebuild our crumbling infrastructure and create over 15 million jobs, President Trump’s administration doubled down on his support for dirty fuels. If President Trump is serious about long-term, sustainable job creation, he should join Democrats in supporting the clean energy industries of the future rather than the dirty industries of the past. “In addition to demonstrating contempt for Native Americans and the Standing Rock Sioux Nation Tribe, this action revives the false choice of supporting either job growth or the environment. We can lead the world in renewable energy jobs, ushering in a new era of clean technology and good jobs, without putting at risk clean water and sacred tribal burial and archaeological sites. “President Trump has said repeatedly that he wants to bring people together, yet just days into his presidency he has consistently steamrolled groups opposing his policies. By putting the oil industry over the American people, President Trump has demonstrated once again that he hasn’t the first clue of how to govern for all.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.23.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement ahead of the House Committee on Rules meeting on H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act of 2017, and in response to President Trump's executive order reinstating the 'global gag-rule:' “The House Republican leadership has chosen legislation attacking women’s reproductive rights as their very first priority following President Trump’s inauguration. The legislation being debated today by the House Rules Committee is nothing more than a continuation of the Republicans' war on women and part of the Trump-Ryan agenda that seeks to punish women for making their own healthcare decisions. “Further, the fact that President Trump chose to reinstate the Global Gag Rule in his first set of Executive Orders is very telling about his priorities. Reinstating this failed policy will actively prevent vulnerable women in developing countries from receiving life-saving healthcare, and will result in many unwanted pregnancies and deaths worldwide. “Yesterday, our nation marked the 44th anniversary of Roe v. Wade. Sadly, Republicans are stuck in the past and remain obsessed with controlling women’s reproductive rights, both here at home and around the globe. “Women are already denied abortion coverage because of how much they earn. H.R. 7 is an insulting bill that doubles down on that sentiment by making insurance coverage bans permanent, disproportionately impacting low-income families and women of color. “Instead of using the House’s time to address healthcare, job creation, or national security, Republicans have shown where their true priorities lie. Neither Congress nor the courts have the right to place restrictions on a woman’s constitutionally protected freedom of choice. I will continue to oppose these misguided efforts that seek to roll-back women’s rights in America.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.22.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement recognizing the 44th anniversary of the U.S. Supreme Court’s landmark decision in Roe v. Wade: “Once again, we mark the anniversary of the Supreme Court’s Roe v. Wade decision as women’s reproductive rights are under attack across the country. Roe v. Wade gives women the right to make their own choices and control their own bodies, yet Republicans across the country continue pushing an extreme agenda to overturn these protections. “The Republicans' obsession with cutting off access to women’s healthcare is deeply disturbing. President Trump has even went as far to say that women who receive abortions under any circumstance, even when the life of the mother is in danger, should be punished – a clear violation of the law. President Trump needs to educate himself on history and the law, and should work with Democrats to strengthen the protections that have made healthcare safer for countless women. “As we mark the anniversary of Roe v. Wade, I am proud to support the right to reproductive healthcare. Neither Congress or the President have the right to place restrictions on a woman’s Constitutionally-protected freedom of choice, and I continue to oppose any efforts to weaken or eliminate access to women’s healthcare providers across the country.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.21.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking the 7th anniversary of the U.S. Supreme Court’s Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission ruling: “It has been seven years since the Supreme Court’s disastrous Citizens United decision dramatically altered political spending in our country. The Citizens United ruling has opened the floodgates to corporations and special interest groups, allowing them to make unlimited contributions and political expenditures to influence elections, SuperPACs have poured hundreds of millions of dollars into campaigns across the country. In the 2016 election cycle alone, these expenditures topped $1.1 billion. “Dark money continues to make our elections more and more costly, and more and more exclusive. The American people deserve an equitable and transparent electoral system that ensures our government is accountable to the interests of voters and not the wealthy elite. I am disappointed that Republicans in Congress continue to oppose Democrats efforts to establish a more transparent process. “As we mark the 7th anniversary of Citizens United, I remain committed to enacting critical new reforms that will empower the American voter and restore accountability to our nation’s electoral process.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.20.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the inauguration of President Donald Trump: “When I announced my intention to boycott the inauguration earlier this week, I made it clear that the decision was not a protest of the results of the Electoral College, but rather, an objection to the President’s very un-presidential attitude and behavior. The office of the President is nothing to take lightly. I certainly do not. It is the highest office in our country and the most powerful in the world. President Trump has yet to show me that he is ready to assume the awesome powers that come with it. “The President and I will undoubtedly disagree on many issues. That is the way democracies work, and I hope that our country will have the ability to debate our differences with the serious attention they deserve. Name-calling, ridicule, and insults do not have a place on our national stage. “As I said previously, it is quite simply wrong for the President to use his position of power to continue to make racist, sexist, and bigoted statements that demean American citizens in order to score points with his political base. I will not play a part in normalizing divisive rhetoric that adds nothing to the critical conversations we face in the near future. “Today, I hope, and I pray, that the President rises to meet the responsibilities of his new position, starting immediately. But as I said previously, if the Trump administration champions illegal, unconstitutional, or other ideas that put the safety of the American people at risk, it will find no harsher critic than me.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.17.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement announcing his decision to boycott the Inauguration of President-elect Donald Trump: “I have decided to boycott the Inauguration of President-elect Donald Trump and remain in my Congressional district in Florida. This decision is not a protest of the results of the Electoral College, but rather, an objection to the demagoguery that continues to define the incoming administration. “President-elect Trump has done little to prove that he is ready to lead this country. Instead, he continues to champion divisiveness. The office of the President is not endowed with unquestioned loyalty, and it is the obligation of each and every American to speak out against injustices however big or small. I cannot play a part in normalizing the countless offensive comments that he has made throughout the past year. “It is quite simply wrong for the President-elect to use his position of power to continue to make racist, sexist, and bigoted statements, to demean those who have spent their lifetimes championing civil rights, such as Rep. John Lewis, and to ridicule religious minorities, ethnic minorities, and anyone who looks different. President-elect Trump continues to denigrate the American intelligence community, jeopardizing the security of the American people, and has clear, undeniable conflicts of interest in violation of Article 1, Section 9 of the Constitution, designed to prevent foreign influence over American elected officials. Make no mistake: these behaviors are not, nor can they ever be, considered normal. “President-elect Trump has made it clear that when given the choice, he stands with Vladimir Putin. I choose to stand with Rep. John Lewis, and every American that expects our President to serve with compassion and humility. If the Trump administration continues to champion illegal, unconstitutional, or other ideas that put the safety of the American people at risk, it will find no harsher critic than me.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.16.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement in commemoration of Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, which honors the life and legacy of the civil rights leader: “As we pause today to honor the life and legacy of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., our nation still faces many challenges. Within days, we will inaugurate a President who has traveled the country making bigoted, offensive, and divisive comments. We cannot continue moving forward together if our leaders seek to divide us. “We stand to lose years of progress, and the fight for equality has reemerged with just as much relevance today as it had during the Civil Rights movement. I, for one, will continue to push back against prejudice and discrimination, and oppose the demonization of any American regardless of the color of their skin. “As Dr. King once wrote, 'Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.' Let us not turn a blind eye to our fellow Americans in need, and look beyond our differences to truly lift our nation up as a whole. “I am forever indebted to Dr. King, who inspired and challenged us as he led the charge for equality, fairness, and justice for all Americans. Now more than ever, we cannot forget this lesson.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.10.2017	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking the beginning of Senate confirmation hearings for President-elect Donald Trump’s cabinet nominees: “As the Senate begins the confirmation process for the President-elect’s cabinet nominees, I am alarmed that many of the candidates have not yet been fully vetted by the nonpartisan Office of Government Ethics. This is unfortunately in keeping with the trend already established by the President-elect, who continues to refuse to disclose his tax returns or address other conflicts of interest. “Many of the nominees clearly have conflicts of interest, and a number of them have not yet completed their financial disclosures or ethics reviews. Until now, this has only happened once in the past 40 years, and is not something to be taken lightly. These nominees owe the American people transparency. Anything otherwise shows total contempt for our democratic process. “Additionally, I am alarmed by a number of the nominees announced in recent weeks. Rep. Tom Price, nominated to serve as Secretary of Health and Human Services, has said he wants to end the Medicare guarantee, while Dr. Ben Carson, nominated to be Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, previously declined a cabinet appointment citing his lack of experience running a federal agency. Just today, it was announced that Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., a vocal vaccine skeptic, was asked to chair a commission to investigate vaccine safety, having previously described effects of vaccines as the cause of a ‘holocaust.’ “It is my sincere hope that moving forward we see a more transparent, comprehensive, and open process. Anything less is a disservice to the American people.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.09.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after reintroducing legislation condemning the Yulin Dog Meat Festival and urging China to end the dog meat trade. The resolution will be numbered H.Res.30 for the 115th Congress. (Please find attached a copy of the resolution): “I am proud to reintroduce my bipartisan resolution condemning the Yulin Dog Meat Festival. This festival and others like it that celebrate the torture of dogs and cats are abominations. During Yulin, dogs are burnt, skinned, or boiled alive, have their paws cleaved off while conscious, and are staked to the ground and beaten to death. No one can see these images and walk away unaffected. “I am deeply appreciative to the thousands of supporters who worked tirelessly to champion this resolution in the past year, and sincerely hope that Speaker Paul Ryan brings this measure to the floor for passage during the 115th Congress. This resolution is the first of its kind to focus Congress’ attention toward animal welfare issues overseas, and I will continue to do all that I can to end this barbaric and inhumane practice. In the coming weeks, I will also introduce additional measures to further fight the global dog meat trade and ban the consumption of dog and cat meat in the United States. Together we will send a message that no matter where you live, animal cruelty is simply wrong.” The legislation was introduced with 49 original co-sponsors. They include: Reps. Mike Bishop (R-MI), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Vern Buchanan (R-FL), Tony Cardenas (D-CA), Matt Cartwright (D-PA), Kathy Castor (D-FL), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Gerald Connolly (D-VA), John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Ryan Costello (R-PA), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Suzan DelBene (D-WA), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Daniel Donovan (R-NY), Lois Frankel (D-FL), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Hank Johnson, Jr. (D-GA), William R. Keating (D-MA), Leonard Lance (R-NJ), Jim Langevin (D-RI), John Lewis (D-GA), Frank LoBiondo (R-NJ), Doris Matsui (D-CA), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Tim Murphy (R-PA), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Donald M., Payne, Jr. (D-NJ), Ed Perlmutter (D-CO), Scott Perry (R-PA), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Gregorio Sablan (D-MP), Linda T. Sanchez (D-CA), John Sarbanes (D-MD), Janice D. Schakowsky (D-IL), Adam Schiff (D-CA), Christopher Smith (R-NJ), Steve Stivers (R-OH), Eric Swalwell (D-CA), Dina Titus (D-NV), Niki Tsongas (D-MA), Fred Upton (R-MI), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Peter Welch (D-VT), Frederica Wilson (D-FL), John Yarmuth (D-K), and Lee Zeldin (R-NY). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.09.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after introducing the Justice for Yazidis Act. The legislation seeks to expand mental health, physical therapy, and other health services to religious minority groups that have suffered the greatest persecution under the Islamic State (IS), including those subjected to rape, forced marriage, and sexual slavery. (Please find attached a copy of the legislation.) “The Justice for Yazidis Act establishes greatly needed programs to expand mental health, physical therapy, and other health services to religious minority groups that have suffered the greatest persecution under the Islamic State (IS). These programs, though modest, are greatly needed and will help victims of genocide begin the long process of healing. “The crimes committed by IS are horrifying and brutal. Apart from the mass killings, the beheadings, and torture, IS has created a system of organized kidnapping, rape, forced marriage, and sexual slavery primarily targeted against girls from religious and ethnic minority groups like the Yazidis. Thousands of women remain enslaved. For those who have escaped or been rescued, the road to recovery is daunting. The United States, through the Department of State and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) has provided services and goods for these groups, but the need continues to grow on a daily basis. My legislation will add new programs to better serve Yazidi, Christian, and other religious minorities. “In addition, this legislation establishes a P2 Processing system for Iraqi and Syrian religious minority groups, allowing individuals to apply directly to the United States for refugee status without compromising the rigorous vetting standards already in place. Passing this measure expeditiously will reaffirm America’s commitment to those around the world suffering from great injustice.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.09.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after four people were killed and many wounded in a vehicular terror attack in Jerusalem: “Once again a cowardly and barbarous act of terrorism has been carried out in Israel, this time against young Israeli soldiers and cadets on an educational trip overlooking the Peace Forest. “It is without question that the relentless demonization of Israel at the United Nations gives fuel to these attacks, as does the refusal of Palestinian leaders to condemn terrorism. Rather, as has happened so many times in the past, Palestinians in Gaza handed out sweets to celebrate the murder of four innocent Israeli youth. I call on Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas to take this moment to unequivocally condemn this terror attack. “My thoughts and prayers are with the victims of this terrible act of violence. The American people share in the outrage of this heinous act and remain committed to the security of Israel and the Israeli people.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.06.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the shooting at Fort Lauderdale- Hollywood International Airport: “I am shocked and horrified at today’s shooting at Fort Lauderdale International Airport. Details are still coming in, but it appears that this cowardly act of violence has claimed multiple lives and left many people injured. My thoughts and prayers go out to the victims, and I offer my full support to the authorities on scene investigating this shooting. “As a frequent patron of this airport, this shooting truly hits close to home. I commend the Broward County Sheriff’s office, TSA, and all emergency personnel who responded to this shooting and work tirelessly to keep us all safe day and night.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.05.2017	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement in support of H.Res.11, Objecting to United Nations Security Council Resolution 2334 as an obstacle to Israeli-Palestinian peace. Hastings was a co-sponsor of the resolution, which was passed by the House of Representatives earlier today. “I voted in favor of H.Res.11, objecting to United Nations Security Council Resolution (UNSCR) 2334, a one-sided resolution that has pushed the Israeli-Palestinian peace process further out of reach. “While it is easy to be dismayed at the lack of progress in resolving this conflict, a permanent solution can only be reached through direct and bilateral negotiations between the Israelis and the Palestinians. Unfortunately, when the United Nations and its bodies support biased resolutions like this one, it only encourages the Palestinians to further avoid dialogue. “UNSCR 2334 is highly problematic. It fails to recognize Israel as a Jewish democratic state, while assigning all blame for the conflict on the Israeli government despite Israel’s repeated offers for peace. Even more troubling, the resolution defines all of East Jerusalem as a settlement, making no distinction between Jerusalem and remote outposts as settlement areas. This shows just how little the United Nations understands about the conflict. At the end of the day, UNSCR 2334 does nothing to improve the lives of the Palestinian people. “The Security Council does not have the right to adjudicate Israel, the only thriving democratic nation in a region engulfed in turmoil. This resolution should have never been brought up for a vote, and the United States should have used its veto authority rather than abstaining. “In the previous Congress, I introduced a resolution urging President Obama and Secretary Kerry to use the United States’ veto power on anti-Israel measures. I am proud to have co-sponsored this resolution, which objects to UNSCR 2334 and urges serious, direct negotiations between the parties.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.04.2017	(Washington, D.C.) Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) introduced a resolution in support of the Secretary of Homeland Security granting Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for those Haitian nationals currently residing in the United States and unable to return to Haiti due to the devastation wrought by Hurricane Matthew last year. (Please find attached a copy of the resolution): “Today, I am proud to continue my efforts to help the people of Haiti build a strong and vibrant democracy,” said Hastings. “Hurricane Matthew inflicted terrible and substantial damage on an already hurting Haiti, and we must do all that we can to ensure that the people of Haiti, and the country itself, are placed in the strongest position possible to achieve the country’s fullest potential. “When Hurricane Matthew made landfall, Haiti had still not fully recovered from the 2010 earthquake, which was responsible for the deaths of over 200,000 Haitians, and incredible structural damage and a horrific cholera epidemic. It is time to let the people of Haiti know that this Congress recognizes the hardships they have faced and that we stand with them as they work to recover and rebuild. I urge my colleagues to support this resolution, and I can only hope that its passage will send a clear message that now is the time to act and lend Haiti this much needed helping hand.” ###
01.03.2017	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) introduced 15 pieces of legislation on the floor of the House of Representatives. The measures address a variety of issues including homelessness, gun violence, social security reform, animal welfare, foreign affairs, and national security. “Today, I am proud to introduce 15 measures in the House of Representatives. As the 115th Congress begins, I plan to hit the ground running on these proposals, and will introduce a number of other important bills throughout the coming year. As I have always said, I will work with anyone, Democrat or Republican, and hope to get these bills passed in the coming Congress. “The Republicans may control Congress and the White House, but I will not stop advocating for these critical measures, which reaffirm Congress' responsibility to the American people and our country's responsibility to be a global leader. I also intend to keep a keen eye on the incoming Administration and the Republican majority to ensure that they always have the best interests of the American people in mind,” said Congressman Hastings. Bills: The Restoring the Partnership for County Health Care Costs Act of 2017, allowing an otherwise eligible individual who is in custody pending charges to receive SSI, Medicare, Medicaid, or CHIP benefits, lifting the burden on counties currently required to provide medical care to people involuntarily confined in jails, detention centers, and prisons without compensation. Please find a copy of the legislation here. The Services for Ending Long-Term Homelessness Act, establishing a new grant program to provide permanent supportive housing for chronically homeless individuals and families whose needs are not addressed by traditional affordable housing. Please find a copy of the legislation here. The Donate for Disaster Relief Act of 2017, allowing taxpayers to designate an amount, not less than $1, of any overpayment of income tax to a Disaster Relief Fund for the purpose of providing relief for major disasters. Please find a copy of the legislation here. The Wildlife VET Act, establishing a new competitive grant program to support additional clinical and research positions for wildlife and zoological veterinarians. Please find a copy of the legislation here. The Increasing Access to Voluntary Screening for HIV/AIDS and STIs Act of 2017, Increasing coverage of routine screening services for HIV/AIDS and sexually transmitted infections (STIs). Please find a copy of the legislation here. The Ending Corporal Punishment in Schools Act of 2017, prohibiting the Department of Education from providing any educational funding to institutions that allow school authorities to inflict corporal punishment upon students. Please find a copy of the legislation here. The Corey Jones Act of 2017, prohibiting the award of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) grant funding to local police departments that do not prohibit plain-clothes officers from engaging in routine traffic stops in unmarked vehicles. The legislation is named after Corey Jones, a resident of Lake Worth, who was shot and killed by a plain-clothes law enforcement officer operating an unmarked vehicle during the early hours of October 18, 2015. Please find a copy of the legislation here. The Combatting Terrorism in Tunisia Emergency Support Act of 2017, authorizing the Department of State to provide assistance to strengthen and reform Tunisia's security sector, support Tunisia's efforts to combat terrorism, provide assistance to support Tunisia's democracy and civil society, provide assistance to support Tunisia's border security by enhancing its capabilities to interdict illicit weapons trafficking, reprogram certain funds to support Tunisia's economic reforms, and enter into a memorandum of understanding with Tunisia to increase military cooperation, including joint military exercises, personnel exchanges, and enhanced strategic dialogue. Please find a copy of the legislation here. The Haitian Educational Empowerment Act of 2017, establishing a scholarship program for qualifying Haitian undergraduate or graduate students whose studies were interrupted as a result of the January 12, 2010 earthquake or Hurricane Matthew. Please find a copy of the legislation here. The Outpatient Mental Health Modernization Act of 2017, Directing the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to convene a Behavioral Health Advisory Committee to address issues relating to discrimination against the chronically mentally ill, elderly, and U.S. veterans as it relates to receiving treatment for mental illness, and to establish conditions of participation for community mental health centers that provide partial hospitalization services under the Medicare program. Please find a copy of the legislation here. The Gun Manufacturers Accountability Act, allowing victims of gun violence to sue gun manufacturers, repealing the manufactures’ immunity from civil actions. Please find a copy of the legislation here. The Teacher Victims' Family Assistance Act, requiring the Secretary of Education to provide assistance to the immediate family of a teacher or other school employee killed in an act of violence while performing school duties. Please find a copy of the legislation here. Resolutions: Recognizing the importance of nonprofit organizations to the economy of the United States and expressing support for designation of September as `Nonprofit Organization (NPO) Recognition Month,' designating September as Nonprofit Organization (NPO) Recognition Month. Please find a copy of the resolution here. Authorization of Use of Force Against Iran Resolution, authorizing the President to use our Armed Forces to ensure that Iran never acquires a nuclear weapon. "I voted against the JCPOA and continue to believe that it was not, and is not, in the best interest of our country: we must do all that we can to ensure the safety of our country and the safety of our allies in the region." Please find a copy of the resolution here. Supporting the goals and ideals of Jubilee Day, recognizing the contributions of the Jubilee singers to the music in the United States and celebrates the hard work, perseverance, and accomplishments of the original Jubilee Singers along with the continued success of the generations of Jubilee singers who followed. Please find a copy of the resolution here. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.23.2016	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the United States’ abstention from a U.N. resolution vote on Israel: “The Obama administration’s abstention at the United Nations today is extremely troubling. It is irresponsible and reckless for the United States to have gone against its longstanding policy to veto one-sided, biased resolutions that undermine efforts to bring us closer to a two-state solution. “We can only achieve a lasting and permanent solution with two-states by direct and bilateral negotiations between the parties. Unfortunately, this dangerous resolution will only encourage the Palestinians to avoid dialogue with Israel in the future. “Just hours before this resolution’s adoption, an Israeli man was stabbed in an act of terrorism – just one of hundreds of recent acts of terror carried out in Israel over the past year. And, just like it has so many times before, the international community remained silent. Staying silent only encourages further terror, which is why I introduced resolutions earlier this year condemning Palestinian terrorism and calling on the United States’ representative to the United Nations to veto absurd resolutions like the one adopted tonight. “With the adoption of this destructive and irresponsible resolution, the United Nations has once again acted to isolate and delegitimize Israel. The United States’ actions were completely unacceptable, and I stand in strong opposition to the administration’s reckless decision.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.12.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement in response to President-Elect Trump’s rejection of the Central Intelligence Agency’s (CIA) assessment that Russia interfered with the U.S. election: “Last weeks’ CIA assessment that Russia intervened in the 2016 Presidential Election is extremely alarming. Equally alarming is President-Elect Trump’s rejection of these findings and continuous denigration of the American intelligence community. Whether it is due to naivety or arrogance, the leader of the free world cannot afford to neglect facts for fiction. “For President-Elect Trump to question the competence of the CIA and then appear on Fox News to boast that he declines daily intelligence briefings, because he is ‘like, a smart person’ is disgraceful. These intelligence briefings keep Americans safe, both here at home and abroad, and flippantly ignoring them is a callous dereliction of duty. President-Elect Trump has not even taken office, yet he is already playing games with American security and the safety of our citizens.” “As Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission and the former Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, I am deeply disturbed by the incoming administrations’ admonition of the intelligence community. Congress must prioritize investigating and responding to Russia’s actions, and ensure that the incoming Commander-in-Chief has the best interests of America in mind.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.08.2016	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the passing of former United States Senator John Herschel Glenn, Jr. of Ohio, the first American astronaut to orbit the Earth, one of the original “Mercury Seven” astronauts, and winner of the Congressional Gold Medal and Presidential Medal of Freedom: “It is with profound sadness that I learned of the passing of former Senator John Glenn. Senator Glenn was an American hero: ‘the last true national hero America has ever made,’ in the words of author Tom Wolfe. He served with distinction throughout his entire life, as a decorated veteran of WWII, a pilot, one of the original ‘Mercury Seven’ astronauts, and as a United States Senator. A brave and devoted patriot, Senator Glenn represented the very best of America. I was proud to co-sponsor legislation awarding Senator Glenn with a Congressional Gold Medal in 2009, an award befitting his exemplary service to our nation. “Today, I join with all Americans in honoring his life and legacy. My thoughts and my prayers are with his wife of 73 years and high school sweetheart Annie, and his children, family, and friends during this time of great sadness.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.01.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in commemoration of World AIDS Day and AIDS Awareness Month: “Every first of December for the past 28 years, we have commemorated World AIDS Day to increase awareness, improve education, combat prejudice, remember those who are no longer with us, and celebrate how far we have come in the struggle against HIV/AIDS. Thanks to the dedication of countless scientists, health care providers, government officials, organizations, and activists, more and more people can live with HIV/AIDS rather than die from it. “Since its establishment by the World Health Organization (WHO) in 1988, World AIDS Day has served as a call to action and a living memorial to all those whose lives have been lost to the disease across the globe. According to WHO, an estimated 35 million people have died since the first cases were reported in 1981 and 1.1 million people died of AIDS-related causes in 2015. “HIV/AIDS is an international issue, however it has taken a particularly devastating toll on my district. Florida continues to rank among the top-three states in the nation in reported HIV/AIDS cases, with nearly 24 diagnosed cases per 100,000 people according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and Broward County has the second highest rate of HIV/AIDS in Florida. “There is hope. New HIV diagnoses continue to decline, and research continues to improve the outlook of those suffering from this terrible disease. These successes are encouraging, and if we continue to fight, I am confident we will reach our goal of ridding the world of the HIV/AIDS by 2030. “On this World AIDS Day, my thoughts and prayers are with those across this nation and around the world who live with HIV/AIDS and their families. As we approach the beginning of the 115th Congress, I stand committed to working with my colleagues to continue protecting the rights of HIV/AIDS patients and increasing access to testing and treatment. Today, let us recommit ourselves to the fight to rid the world of this disease once and for all.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.26.2016	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the death of Cuban Dictator Fidel Castro: “For the first time in decades Cuba has awoken to a world free of the tyrant Fidel Castro, who spent his lifetime brutalizing his people. Fidel Castro abused the human rights of Cuban citizens and watched Cuba sink further and further into poverty. Even as families were torn apart and millions fled to the shores of America through whatever means possible, the Castro regime refused to yield power. “The current ruling regime is still governing the island with an iron grip. It is time to bring hope where hope has been limited, and it is time for the people of Cuba to choose a government through free and fair elections. “The United States must continue to pressure the current regime to promote a free and open democratic society that allows for political, social, and economic freedom for all.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.14.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letter to Speaker Paul Ryan and House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, once again urging them to bring H.Res 752, Condemning the Dog Meat Festival in Yulin, China, and urging China to end the dog meat trade to the floor for consideration. (Please see below and attached a copy of the letter): November 14, 2016 The Honorable Paul Ryan Speaker U.S. House of Representative H-232, the Capitol Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Kevin McCarthy House Majority Leader U.S. House of Representatives H-107, the Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Speaker Ryan and Majority Leader McCarthy: I write once again regarding H.Res.752, Condemning the Dog Meat Festival in Yulin, China, and urging China to end the dog meat trade, which I introduced with bipartisan support on May 25, 2016. I respectfully ask that you bring my resolution to the floor for a vote without delay. The Dog Meat Festival in Yulin, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, China dates back to 2009-2010, when it was launched by dog meat traders as a commercial enterprise to boost flagging sales of dog meat. More than 10,000 dogs are reported to be captured, transported and slaughtered every year for this Dog Meat festival, with more than 10 million dogs killed annually in China for the dog meat trade. Animal welfare groups have found that a number of these dogs are stolen pets taken from their homes, still wearing their collars when they reach the slaughterhouse. Many dogs die during transport to the slaughterhouses after days or weeks without food or water, and others suffer illness and injury during transport, such as broken bones. These dogs suffer mentally from watching other dogs being disemboweled and blow-torched in front of them. Yulin's dog slaughter takes place in residential areas and public marketplaces, imposing scenes of extreme animal cruelty on local residents, including young children who may, as a result, suffer psychological trauma and desensitization. The capture, transport, and butchering of dogs and the consumption of dog meat poses a risk to human health by exposing people to a multitude of diseases, including rabies and cholera. This practice, in my opinion, is completely unacceptable, and can be stopped by the diligent efforts of members of the Chinese government. Although the Yulin city government withdrew as a sponsor of the Dog Meat Festival, it has taken no meaningful action to enforce China’s existing laws and regulations on animal disease control, food safety, trans-provincial dog transport, or youth protection, all of which are breached by the dog meat trade. Tens of millions of people around the world have called upon the Government of China, the Governor of the Guangxi Autonomous Region, and the Mayor of Yulin to officially end the Dog Meat Festival and stop the mass slaughter of dogs all year round in Yulin. In addition, the majority of people in China do not consume dog meat and dog meat is not a part of mainstream Chinese culinary practice. Millions of Chinese citizens recently voted in support of a legislative proposal by Zhen Xiaohe, a deputy to the National People’s Congress of China, to ban the dog meat trade. Alongside these voices, I have already written a letter to the Chairman of the National People’s Congress Standing Committee urging him to draft legislation to prohibit this festival from taking place ever again. I respect the traditions of the Chinese people, but these events and activities tarnish China’s reputation across the world. On September 14th, I held a briefing on the Yulin Dog Meat Festival and the global dog meat trade. Scores of people from around the country attended the briefing and it was viewed by over 40,000 people worldwide. To date, 142 of my colleagues in the House of Representatives, both Democrats and Republicans, have co-sponsored the resolution. Again, I respectfully ask that you allow H.Res.752 to be brought to the floor for consideration before the end of the 114th Congress. I thank you for your time and consideration of my request, and stand ready to do all that I can to assist with bringing this critically important resolution to the floor. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Cc: The Honorable Nancy Pelosi, Democratic Leader, U.S. House of Representatives The Honorable Steny Hoyer, Democratic Whip, U.S. House of Representatives The Honorable Jim Clyburn, Assistant Democratic Leader, U.S. House of Representatives The Honorable Ed Royce, Chairman, U.S. House Committee on Foreign Affairs The Honorable Eliot Engel, Ranking Member, U.S. House Committee on Foreign Affairs Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.07.2016	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the passing of former U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno: "I was deeply saddened to learn of Janet Reno's passing. She was truly a trailblazer, and as our nation’s first woman Attorney General, she served with honor, integrity and respect. "Janet Reno was recognized as one of a kind by her associates because of her ‘do the right thing’ way of thinking. She once said, ‘I hope I do the women of America proud,’ and advocated strongly for the advancement of women's rights. As Attorney General, Janet Reno implemented historic legislation such as the Violence Against Women Act and the Brady background check bill, policies that have positively impacted millions of Americans and will continue to benefit generations to come. “I join with so many around the nation in mourning the loss of my friend and fellow Floridian, Janet Reno. My thoughts and prayers are with her family and friends during this time of great sadness.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.06.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on FBI Director Comey’s follow-up letter to Republican Chairmen, in which Director Comey stated that the review of additional emails had "not changed our conclusions that we expressed in July" regarding Secretary Clinton: "Once again, FBI Director James Comey has made it unequivocally clear that no reasonable prosecutor would pursue charges against Hilary Clinton. "Since Director Comey announced that additional emails would be reviewed late last month, Republicans have spent every waking moment blatantly mischaracterizing the decision as proof of malicious action. This purposefully loose interpretation of the facts was spun to influence Tuesday's election, and that is shameful. "Even though today's announcement comes as no surprise to me, I strongly disapprove of the manner in which this review was publicly announced with so little information. Voters deserve facts, not hyperbole, and the decision to review additional emails without providing further details, even as ballots were being cast, should be reviewed." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.31.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letter to Cui Tiankai, Ambassador of the People’s Republic of China to the United States, expressing concern over reports of Chinese police officers aiding in the trafficking of dogs and standing by as traffickers attacked animal rights activists. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter.) October 31, 2016 The Honorable Cui Tiankai Ambassador Embassy of the People’s Republic of China 3505 International Place, NW Washington, D.C. 20008 Dear Ambassador Cui: I write to you today to draw your attention to a shameful event that occurred in the Chengde Pingquan County of China on October 26th – police standing by and doing nothing as innocent animal rights activists were attacked by illegal dog traders. According to reports, police officers were actively aiding the traffickers in the assault. These brave activists were only working to ensure that the dogs had come from legal sources and had health certificates in accordance with Chinese law. Luckily, Buddhist Monks from the local area were able to step in and succeeded in recovering the animals. In May, I wrote you a letter drawing your attention to H.Res.752, which I introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives on May 25, 2016. My bipartisan resolution condemns the Yulin Dog Meat Festival and respectively calls on your government to end the festival and, more generally, the dog meat trade. As you know, this year’s Dog Meat Festival took place in June. In order to save thousands of innocent dogs from being grossly mistreated and slaughtered, I once again implore you to do all that you can to see to it that all future Dog Meat Festivals are banned. It is notable that the Yulin city government has itself withdrawn as a sponsor of the festival. Disappointingly, however, city government officials have not yet taken meaningful action to enforce China’s already well established laws regulating animal disease control, food safety, trans-provincial dog transport, or youth protection, all of which are violated by the dog meat trade and by many of those taking part in the Dog Meat Festival. I believe that with your leadership, and the leadership of President Xi, city officials in Yulin can be convinced that their best course of action is to fulfill their respective duties to see to it that Chinese law is followed thereby saving thousands of dogs from a certain and tortuous death. The grotesque festival, and the dog meat trade more generally, serve as a call to action for not only the millions of Chinese citizens who care for and love animals, but for all such people around the world. I fully understand that the majority of people in China do not consume dog meat and that your government has sound and well established laws under which those who engage in and perpetuate the dog meat trade could be prosecuted. I respectfully ask that you join me in standing with the millions of Chinese citizens who are on record denouncing the dog meat trade, and ensure that this terrible trade and festival ends swiftly through the just adjudication of Chinese law. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.28.2016	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement in response to FBI Director James Comey’s letter to eight Republican Congressional Committee Chairmen: “The review of Secretary Clinton’s personal email server that concluded months ago yielded no charges. FBI Director James Comey himself said that no reasonable prosecutor would move forward with a case like this one. I don’t expect we will learn anything new that will change this assessment. “I am very concerned and surprised at the manner in which Director Comey has inserted the FBI into this election. With just 11 days until Election Day, it is extraordinary to announce this decision without providing any additional information. Republicans have spent months second-guessing the FBI with baseless partisan accusations, and have already seized upon this announcement with blatant mischaracterizations. While the FBI has not even indicated that this review involves Secretary Clinton’s own use of emails, Republicans have, once again, already drawn their own conclusions. Director Comey should provide the full details of this new investigation to the American people. This action demands full and complete transparency. Anything else at this time would be reckless.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.20.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement recognizing National Bullying Awareness month, which takes places every year during the month of October: “During National Bullying Awareness Month, we highlight the need to raise awareness of bullying prevention. Bullying is defined as any behavior that hurts, harms, or humiliates a student, either physically or emotionally. It can happen while at school, online, or in communities away from school grounds. Bullying behavior is often repeated by individuals or groups that have more social or physical ‘power’ with the intent of harassing others. “Today, bullying and abuse has become a serious concern. This form of intimidation significantly affects our nation’s youth and their families. Roughly 32 percent of 12-18-year-olds say they have been bullied, and suicide has risen to become the second-largest cause of death in teens and young adults between the ages of 13 and 24. According to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) students who experience bullying are at increased risk for poor academic performance, difficulty sleeping, anxiety, and depression. “While we have taken steps to improve school safety and inclusiveness, we need to continue building on efforts to end bullying. I remain committed to working with our country’s youth, parents, educators, and communities to protect the safety of our children and ensure a welcoming environment at schools across the country.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.20.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement recognizing National Domestic Violence Awareness Month: “During National Domestic Violence Awareness Month, we highlight the painful reality of intimate partner abuse in our country. Domestic violence takes many forms: it can include emotional abuse as well as physical, psychological, and sexual violence, with the intention of intimidating, abusing, or otherwise exerting control of one intimate partner over another. “Nearly 20 people are physically abused by an intimate partner every minute in the United States. On a typical day, more than 20,000 phone calls are placed to domestic violence hotlines nationwide. While rates of domestic violence have dropped significantly over the past two decades, far too many women and men struggle to free themselves from abusive situations. “As we observe this month, we work to let victims know that they are not alone. I was proud to support the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act in 2013, which expanded protections and services for Native Americans, immigrants, and lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) individuals. All people deserve to feel safe and secure, and I will continue to work in Congress to protect victims of domestic violence.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.13.2016	(Fort Lauderdale, FL) Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement congratulating the people of Georgia on last week’s parliamentary elections: “I congratulate the people of Georgia on their parliamentary elections of October 8th. While there were occasional reports of election-based violence, it is clear that polling was well-administered and conducted in a fair, open, and competitive process. A fundamental function of any democracy is to ensure that all qualified citizens are allowed to freely exercise their political franchise. Tens of thousands of non-partisan observers monitored this year’s election in Georgia, highlighting the nation’s commitment to the democratic process. “As President Emeritus of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, I had the opportunity to lead an election observation mission to Georgia in January 2008, as well as other missions in Azerbaijan, Belarus, and Ukraine in the past. Georgia continues to lead as a democratically transitioning country of the region, and I look forward to continued progress in future elections.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.13.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) voted to approve a resolution ignoring Jewish links to the Temple Mount: “Once again, UNESCO must be condemned for adopting a one-sided, anti-Semitic resolution denying thousands of years of Jewish ties to Jerusalem. Jewish ties to Jerusalem are indisputable, and dangerous resolutions like this one only deepen existing divisions. “World bodies do not have the right to re-write history, and important multi-national institutions should not engage in de-legitimizing political theater. The fact that this vote was taken just hours after the conclusion of Yom Kippur, the most holy day in Judaism, is noteworthy. “Last month, I introduced H.Con.157, a resolution expressing the sense of Congress that the United States should continue to exercise its veto in the United Nations Security Council on resolutions regarding the Israeli-Palestinian peace process, and oppose anti-Israel measures considered by the United Nations and its bodies. Today’s biased UNESCO resolution highlights why my resolution is unfortunately necessary. The United Nations and its bodies unfairly target Israel on a regular basis, whether it is the Human Rights Council naming Israel as the world’s top human rights violator, or the Commission on the Status of Women singling out Israel as the only nation responsible for women’s rights violations. “I appreciate the United States’ representative to UNESCO, as well as the United Kingdom, Germany, the Netherlands, Lithuania, and Estonia for voting against this resolution.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.12.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letter to President Barack Obama, urging him to set a date under Haiti’s Temporary Protected Status (TPS) designation that will account for the effects of Hurricane Matthew on the country. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter.) October 12, 2016 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: I write to you today to respectfully request that you set a date under Haiti’s Temporary Protected Status (TPS) designation that will account for the devastating effects Hurricane Matthew has had on that country. As I know you are aware, on October 4, 2016, Hurricane Matthew hit Haiti causing catastrophic damage throughout the country. As of the writing of this letter, over 800 Haitians are reported dead and 350,000 in need of assistance. Jeremie, Haiti, the capital of Haiti’s Grand’Anse Department, saw 80% of its buildings levelled during the hurricane. In Haiti’s Sud Province, 30,000 homes have been destroyed and crops devastated. It is generally agreed that when Hurricane Matthew made landfall earlier this week, Haiti had still not fully recovered from the 2010 earthquake, which was responsible for the deaths of over 200,000 Haitians, incredible structural damage and a horrific cholera epidemic. Given these facts, I believe it is appropriate to grant a TPS designation for those Haitians affected by Hurricane Matthew, and I ask that you do all that you can to ensure that such a designation is made without delay and uses as its Continuous Residence date, October 4, 2016. Finally, I would like to reiterate that which was stated in the bi-partisan letter I joined with over fifty of my colleagues and was recently sent to you – namely that an immediate halt should be put to the Department of Homeland Security’s recently announced decision to resume deportations to Haiti. Such a policy is ill-advised given Haiti’s current situation. Thank you for your timely attention to this matter. Should you or your staff have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact my office at 202-225-1313. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.27.2016	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the passing of former President of Israel Shimon Peres: “It is with great sadness that I learned of the passing of my friend Shimon Peres, a former Prime Minister and President of Israel, a Nobel Peace Prize winner, and a man of peace. It is fitting that the Peres Center for Peace, the leading organization in Israel promoting peacebuilding between Israel and its neighbors, will continue to bear his name and work towards the goal to which he dedicated so much of his life. “Much of his family perished during the Holocaust, and he came to Israel to build a new nation. He was one of the founders of the State of Israel, and quickly rose as a leader and public servant. Holding virtually every senior office during his seven-decade career, he worked to make Israel strong and to pursue peace. To that end, he worked behind the scenes with Egypt and Jordan to secure historic agreements. President Peres was also instrumental in Israel’s high-tech revolution, and brought about a new generation of partnerships between the United States and Israel in the scientific and high-tech field. “It was a privilege to know President Peres, and an honor to call him my friend. He leaves behind the legacy of a man who dedicated his life to something bigger than himself. I offer my heartfelt condolences to his family and the people of Israel during this time of great sadness.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.26.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the passing of Leo Gray, a member of the Tuskeege Airmen: “It is with profound sadness that I learned of the passing of retired Lt. Col. Leo Gray. Leo served our nation during World War II as one of the original Tuskegee Airmen and was on the forefront of the movement to desegregate the military. Later, as president of the Miami chapter of Tuskegee Airmen, Inc., he dedicated himself to promoting access to aerospace education for young minorities. “Leo honored us all through his unending service to his country. His lifelong activism was tremendously influential, as he made the world a better, more inclusive place. I join with so many around the nation in mourning his loss, and offer my thoughts and prayers to his wife Diane and his children during this time of great sadness.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.20.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after introducing a House Concurrent Resolution, expressing the sense of Congress that the United States should continue to exercise its veto in the United Nations Security Council on resolutions regarding the Israeli-Palestinian peace process, and oppose anti-Israel measures considered by the United Nations and its bodies. (Please find a copy of the resolution attached): “As the United Nations General Assembly meets in New York, I believe it is important to reaffirm Congress’ support for Israel on the world stage. Israel is one of our nation’s great allies – a free and open democratic society in a complex region – yet it is the only country in the world that has to defend its right to exist on a daily basis. “The United Nations and its bodies unfairly target Israel on a regular basis, whether it is the Human Rights Council naming Israel as the world’s top human rights violator, or the Commission on the Status of Women singling out Israel as the only nation responsible for women’s rights violations. This is why it is important for the United States to continue opposing anti-Israel measures considered by these organizations and exercising its veto in the United Nations Security Council on resolutions regarding the Israeli-Palestinian Peace Process. “We all want to see a resolution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, and I will continue to offer my support to both sides as they work towards a solution that will allow Israelis and Palestinians the opportunity to live in peace and security. This can only happen if both sides come together and negotiate: international organizations cannot impose peace. I urge Congress to pass this measure immediately.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.16.2016	Briefing focuses on Hastings’ H.Res.752, Condemning the Dog Meat Festival in Yulin, China, and urging China to end the dog meat trade, and the global dog meat trade [photos for print below] (Fort Lauderdale, FL) Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after hosting a Congressional Briefing on the Yulin Dog Meat Festival on September 14, 2016. During the festival, which has been condemned worldwide, approximately ten thousand dogs are rounded up and slaughtered for human consumption. Joining Hastings as Panelists at the briefing were: Lisa Vanderpump, Founder of The Vanderpump Dog Foundation, Dr. John Sessa, Executive Director, The Vanderpump Dog Foundation, Dr. Peter Li, China Policy Advisor at Humane Society International and Associate Professor at East Asian Politics of the University of Houston-Downton, Andrea Gung, Executive Director and Founder of Duo Duo - Compassion Beyond Borders, Marc Ching, Founder of the Animal Hope & Wellness Foundation, and Valarie Ianniello, Director of Operations, the Animal Hope & Wellness Foundation “This briefing shined a light on horrific practices that take place across Asia. The Yulin Dog Meat Festival in China is just one of many where dogs are inhumanely slaughtered for human consumption. That the animals are purposefully made to suffer before their brutal deaths, often through being skinned, boiled, or burned alive, makes the festival in Yulin particularly detesting,” said Congressman Alcee L. Hastings, who introduced legislation condemning the festival earlier this year. “I was pleased to host a distinguished panel of experts, many of whom have spent time in Yulin, for this important discussion. Our fight is not one culture against another, nor is it one government against another; rather, it is one for compassion and kindness as we demand that these brutal practices be stopped immediately. “The beauty of this cause is that it is universal. It transcends party lines, state borders and political stances. It doesn’t matter if you’re a Republican or a Democrat; our cause should be everyone’s cause, said Lisa Vanderpump, Founder of The Vanderpump Dog Foundation. “As a country, we are judged by our actions and our beliefs. If we turn our heads and do nothing, we are condoning that this Festival continues. By not doing anything, we are silently giving Yulin our blessing. We, as people, should not stand passive while watching this barbaric practice continues.” “With the might of the American government behind us, we can begin to put pressure on Chinese officials to enact changes in procedure and law enforcement. Many of the courses of action are not only already established within China, but only need regular monitoring and enforcing to be rendered effective,” said Dr. John Sessa, Executive Director of the Vanderpump Dog Foundation. “China's dog meat trade is not simply an animal cruelty issue. It is an industry challenged by the Chinese people themselves for its connection with a host of practices that are against China's own laws. We are not here launching a war of culture on China. We are joining the Chinese people in condemning an industry and a ‘festival’ that run counter to China's progress. I believe China is materially and philosophically ready to legislate animal protection laws and to outlaw the dog meat trade,” said Dr. Peter Li, China Policy Advisor at Humane Society International and Associate Professor at East Asian Politics of the University of Houston-Downton. “China is the only top industrialized nation that does not have an anti-cruelty law. Dog meat consumption is not part of the mainstream Chinese food culture. Some 70 percent of the Chinese people have never eaten dog meat. The dog meat industry is so insignificant. Its outlaw won't adversely impact the Chinese economy or the life of the Chinese people. The Yulin Dog Meat Festival has done irreparable damage to China's reputation. It is an event that is patently offensive to the Chinese people. It does not belong in the 21st century. Congressman Hastings' leadership in the monumental Resolution opened a new page in US-China relations. International relations must include issues of the protection of nonhuman animals so that a truly harmonious inter-state relationship can be developed.” “In my presentation, I spoke about hope being the only way forward,” said Andrea Gung, Founder of Duo Duo – Compassion without Borders. “To hear Congressman Hastings speak with such conviction about making H.Res.752 a joint resolution, I walked away knowing, hope is already underway in our nation's capital. Duo Duo Project is honored to have been given a voice in support of the resolution." “We are grateful to have been a part of the panel discussing the Dog Meat Trade, the first of its kind on Capitol Hill,” said Marc Ching, Founder of the Animal Hope & Wellness Foundation and Valarie Ianniello, Director of Operations. “Congressman Hastings has provided us a platform to jump off of and we plan to keep the momentum going." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.11.2016	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement today marking the 15th anniversary of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001: “Our nation suffered one its darkest days 15 years ago today. The clear blue skies of that morning, blurred by fire and smoke, will forever be seared into my memory, as will be the images of the fallen twin towers of the World Trade Center, the crumbled wall the Pentagon, and the burning field in Stonycreek Township, Pennsylvania. “We still remember the tragic events of that morning with disbelief, shock, and grief. I join with all Americans in pausing today to memorialize the victims of these horrific attacks and to honor those who gave their lives rescuing the injured. “Since these attacks, our country has been transformed by years of conflict and war. In the days and months following 9/11, thousands of Americans volunteered to serve. Many sacrificed their lives so that our country would be a safer place, and many more came home with injuries, both visible and not. Likewise, many of the first responders on scene at Ground Zero have faced grave illnesses as a result of toxic materials in the air and on the ground in the days after the attack. It is our responsibility to meet the medical needs of each and every one of these individuals. “Fifteen years have passed, and though we have rebuilt what we lost, our hearts will never be full. Today, as we mark this solemn anniversary, I take comfort in knowing that the values upon which this nation is based can never be taken from us." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.07.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following to the Chairmen and Ranking Members of the House and Senate Appropriations Subcommittees on Defense, urging them to preclude language curtailing military music ensembles from the final Fiscal Year 2017 Defense Appropriations Bill. (Please find a copy of the letter below and attached.) Joining Hastings in signing the letter were Representatives (10): Walter B. Jones (R-NC), Tim Walz (D-MN), Louise M. Slaughter (D-FL), Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA), Donald Payne, Jr. (D-NJ), Corrine Brown (D-FL), Tony Cardenas (D-CA), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), and Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX). Additionally, the letter was endorsed by the following organizations: National Association for Music Education, Americans for the Arts, National Association of Music Parents, Music for All, the Recording Academy, National Association of Music Merchants (NAMM), Winter Guard International, the League of American Orchestras, Quadrant Arts Education Research, Organization of American Kodaly Educators, American Orff-Schulwerk Association, VH1 Save The Music Foundation, Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia Fraternity, Drum Corps International, Music Teachers National Association, The Gordon Institute for Music Learning, SongwritingWith:Soldiers, the National Music Council, Not Forgotten Outreach, Inc., and Strathmore. September 07, 2016 The Honorable Thad Cochran Chairman Senate Committee on Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense S-128, The Capitol Washington, D.C. 20510 The Honorable Rodney Frelinghuysen Chairman House Committee on Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense H-405, The Capitol Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Dick Durbin Ranking Member Senate Committee on Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense 115 Dirksen Senate Office Building Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Pete Visclosky Ranking Member House Committee on Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense 1016 Longworth House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Cochran, Ranking Member Durbin, Chairman Frelinghuysen, and Ranking Member Visclosky: The Military Bands of the United States Armed Forces are an integral part of our country’s musical and military excellence. Linking servicemen and servicewomen to those whom they protect, these musicians are emissaries to communities across the nation and throughout the world. We urge you to preclude any language from the final Fiscal Year 2017 Defense Appropriations Bill that diminishes their ability to continue serving our nation. As described by the mission statement of the U.S. Army Band, military musicians “instill in our soldiers the will to fight and win, foster the support of our citizens, and promote our national interests at home and abroad." We believe the outreach provided by the members of these ensembles, through thousands of performances per year and music education programs in schools across the country, is more important than ever. In addition to boosting the morale of our servicemembers and promoting national interests, military music ensembles also serve certain critical tactical roles in the field. For example, according to Army doctrine, “a band is routinely placed [under the command of the] provost marshal. The provost marshal may assign personnel to provide security to the division command posts, augment the military police response forces as a dismounted infantry platoon, or operate a holding area for enemy prisoners of war.” More than one hundred military music ensembles perform across the United States every year, sharing their music for free with the American public in nursing homes, parades, festivals, and other gatherings. During the summer, these concerts also occur on a weekly basis at the base of the West Steps of the United States Capitol, a continuation of a 130 year-old tradition with bands performing American classics for visitors and tourists from around the world. In total, these performances reach more than 1 billion people annually. Some of the most iconic American musicians, including Glenn Miller, Artie Shaw, and John Coltrane, have served in military bands, cementing the legacies of their respective ensembles as American traditions. Today, military musicians are among the most talented, accomplished, and respected in the United States. In choosing to perform in uniform, they exemplify service as emissaries of the Armed Forces. We should be doing everything we can to promote and support the ensembles they are part of. Prioritizing the needs of the Department of Defense (DOD) should not come at the expense of our valued military ensembles. We trust the judgement of the Commanding Officers of these important units and urge you to preclude any language from the final FY 2017 Defense Appropriations Bill that diminishes their ability to continue serving our nation. “America means freedom and there's no expression of freedom quite so sincere as music.” – Maj. Glenn Miller, Army Air Forces Band ’42-’44. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Walter B. Jones Member of Congress Tim Walz Member of Congress Louise M. Slaughter Member of Congress Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. Member of Congress Donald Payne Jr. Member of Congress Corrine Brown Member of Congress Tony Cárdenas Member of Congress Ted Lieu Member of Congress Gregory W. Meeks Member of Congress Eddie Bernice Johnson Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.26.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement marking the 96th anniversary of the adoption of the 19th Amendment, which extended voting rights to women, and Women’s Equality Day: “Today we celebrate the 96th anniversary of the 19th Amendment and Women’s Equality Day, which is dedicated to the women and men who fought against discrimination based on sex at the voting booth. We also must recognize the work that remains to be done despite the many strides that have been made since then. “Women now account for almost half of our nation’s workers, and have risen to top positions in public and private offices. Despite these and countless other contributions and successes by our nation’s women, they still face a wage gap of 79 cents to every dollar paid to men. “As a proud supporter of House Democrats’ When Women Succeed, America Succeeds agenda, I continue to do all that I can in the fight for gender equality. I join those who advocate for equal pay for equal work, paid sick days, paid family leave, expanding affordable child care, and retirement security. In supporting American women workers, we are supporting American families and the American dream. “In honor of Women’s Equality Day, let us ensure that women succeed through rededicating ourselves to this cause, because when women succeed, America succeeds.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.22.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the spread of the Zika Virus in Miami Beach: “The Zika virus is a public health emergency and it is unfathomable that the House Republican leadership refuses to address it. Just this weekend the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) announced that pregnant women should avoid travelling to Miami-Dade County, because the virus is actively being transferred from infected mosquitos in multiple areas. “The Administration requested funding to combat the spread of Zika six months ago. Before breaking for the summer recess, Democrats again implored Speaker Ryan and the House Majority to fund our response to the virus. Yet, Republicans refused to fund critical research on Zika, threatening our ability to develop a vaccine or prevent transmission. I wonder, how many people will need to be infected with Zika before Republicans act? “Congress should return to Washington immediately to address the Zika crisis, before it turns into an epidemic. This is no time to be playing politics.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.01.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and the Democratic Members of the Broward County Congressional Delegation released the following statement announcing the Broward Metropolitan Planning Organizations’ (MPO) selection for a TIGER VIII Discretionary Grant for its Regional Complete Streets Initiative: “I am excited to announce that the Broward Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO) has been selected to receive $11,443,371 in TIGER Grant Funding for its Regional Complete Streets Initiative. Complete Streets is a critically important project for my district and Broward County, and will fill in gaps of a 70-mile portion of the bicycle and pedestrian network serving county residents,” said Congressman Alcee L. Hastings, who represents the majority of areas that will benefit from TIGER funding. “Between 2011 and 2015, 381 pedestrians were killed on Broward’s roadways, and this project will significantly enhance accessible and safe connections for residents in traditionally underserved communities in Fort Lauderdale, Lauderdale Lakes, Oakland Park, and Pompano Beach. I am pleased to congratulate Broward MPO on being selected for this grant, and look forward to seeing the Complete Streets Initiative in completion.” “This is huge for Broward County residents and visitors," said Congresswoman Lois Frankel. "This transformative grant comes as a cooperative effort among local officials, planners, members of Congress, and President Obama's transportation team. Bicyclists, pedestrians and motorists alike will have safer passages that will come with new bike lanes, wider sidewalks and improved traffic signalization.” "It is no surprise that Fort Lauderdale has become a model city for its safe and environmentally-conscious development.‎ From small businesses to traveling families, this well-deserved grant will improve the lives of thousands of people who work, live, and visit in this great city," said Congressman Ted Deutch. “I was proud to personally speak with Secretary Anthony Foxx about this important TIGER grant to improve bicycle and pedestrian paths in Broward County and stress the contribution the project would make to pedestrian and bicyclists' safety. They will help our working families get from place to place more quickly and safely - a critical issue for our region. I will continue to join my colleagues' vocal advocacy for robust transportation investments like the TIGER program that help build our nation’s vital infrastructure needs is extremely important to meet our local economy and working families,” said Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz. "We would like to thank our Washington delegation, our local governments and our residents who engaged on project. It will help provide safe access to jobs, education and healthcare without having to drive,” said Greg Stuart, Executive Director of the Broward MPO. Background: Broward County’s Complete Street Initiative will utilize TIGER funding to construct bicycle and pedestrian facilities, including buffered bike lanes, a multi-purpose path, new ADA-compliant sidewalks, pedestrian and vehicular lighting, and landscaping. DOT’s Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery, known as the TIGER Discretionary Grant Program, funds capital investments in surface transportation infrastructure. Grants are awarded on a competitive basis and are funded through the Consolidated Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2016. For Fiscal Year 2016, $500 million was made available for the eighth round of the grant. According to the Department of Transportation, since 2009, “TIGER has provided nearly $4.6 billion to 381 projects in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico, including 134 projects to support rural and tribal communities. Overall, the Department has received more than 6,700 applications requesting more than $134 billion for transportation projects across the country.” (https://www.transportation.gov/tiger) Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.27.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letter to Florida Governor Rick Scott, urging him to lead on commonsense gun control legislation. The Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence rates Florida an “F” on policies regulating guns and ammunition. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter): July 27, 2016 The Honorable Rick Scott Governor State of Florida The Capitol 400 S. Monroe Street Tallahassee, FL 32399-0001 Dear Governor Scott: I write to you today in the wake of yet another tragic shooting, this time involving a gunman who shot and killed teenagers in Fort Meyers, Florida. Once again, the citizens of Florida are forced to try to make sense of the senseless, and this time just six short weeks after our State was the scene of the worst mass shooting in the history of the United States at the Pulse Nightclub in Orlando. However, perhaps more importantly – and certainly no less tragic – is the fact that our fellow Floridians will have to make sense out of the lack of leadership coming from you and other elected officials who have done nothing but continue to pander to the gun lobby in our State and around the country. This lack of leadership, this inability to come together and pass commonsense gun legislation, has led to a new normal in our State and in our country: unspeakable gun violence, followed by thoughts and prayers, followed by the inaction and obstructionism of the political Right, resulting only in the guaranteed continuation of more senseless gun violence to come. It is with the full acknowledgement of this “new normal” that I must forthrightly state that the time for a staid and over-conciliatory discussion concerning the unending onslaught of gun violence afflicting our fellow citizens has passed. Frankly, our citizens continue to be killed and terrorized by gun violence at epidemic levels, and those who insist on standing in the way of commonsense gun violence prevention legislation are culpable in the continuation of this epidemic. After 49 people were murdered at the Pulse Nightclub in Orlando by a terrorist using a Sig Sauer MCX – a weapon originally designed for U.S. Special Forces – you stated that we should take a look at our gun laws – I could not agree more. You even made the salient point that “nobody would think that anybody on a terror watch list should have a gun…” Again, I fully agree. Unfortunately, directly following these sensible conclusions, you provided what can only be described as a tsunami of gun lobby talking points, leading one to question the sincerity of your earlier conclusions. Indeed, the weeks following the Orlando massacre have confirmed that your sensible conclusions concerning terrorists’ access to weapons of war were no match for the unyielding force the gun lobby holds over you and your fellow Republicans. Your responsibility is to all Floridians, not just those whose overzealous accumulation of weapons threatens and undermines our safety, and certainly not to the gun lobby whose sole purpose is to protect and line the wallets of well-off gun manufactures in Florida and around the country. With this in mind, I encourage you to start at once in an effort to lead Florida into a time when commonsense gun legislation is not rejected out of hand, but rather honestly considered, debated and signed into law. As it is today, Florida is one of 26 states to receive an “F” from the Brady Campaign when it comes to implementing commonsense gun legislation. Importantly, of those 26 states, Florida is not only the largest, but also the most densely populated. In other words, with its size, population density, number of firearms and lack of commonsense gun legislation, Florida has been, and remains, a powder keg for future gun violence. This does not have to be, and must not continue to be, the case. I encourage you to be a voice of reason for your party and for our State. I encourage you to champion background check legislation, limits on magazine capacity, and limits on assault rifles. In addition, I encourage you to fight for legislation that will ensure that those who are found guilty of committing acts of domestic violence no longer have access to guns, and that those with declared mental illnesses are likewise prohibited from acquiring firearms. Governor, I do not pretend for a moment that you and I currently occupy common ground when it comes to enacting commonsense gun legislation – I know how powerful the gun lobby is in Florida. However, I cannot, and will not, sit idly by and watch Florida’s gun violence epidemic become our new normal. I sincerely hope that you will meditate on this epidemic and acknowledge that its cure is multifaceted and will require enacting commonsense gun legislation immediately. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.14.2016	Today, Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Jeff Denham (R-CA), Co-Chairs of the Congressional Pollinator Protection Caucus, introduced a resolution recognizing the important role of pollinators in in supporting ecosystems and economies (please find a copy of the legislation attached): “Pollinators are vital to our economy and ecosystems across America. They are necessary for diversity of plant life and the stability of our food supply,” said Congressman Alcee L. Hastings. “Unfortunately, in recent years, the pollinator population has faced an alarming decline. Since 2006, over 10 million honeybee hives have been lost, and the populations of pollinating birds, bats, and insects have also been decimated. As Co-Founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Pollinator Protection Caucus, I am dedicated to improving the health and well-being of pollinators. This bipartisan resolution highlights the importance of this issue. I thank my colleague and Caucus Co-Chair Congressman Denham for introducing it with me today.” “Pollinators are often unrecognized contributors to our society, so it’s important that we raise public awareness of their economic and environmental benefits, as well as of the challenges they face. My district has one of the highest outputs of pollinator-dependent fruits and veggies in the country. I’m glad there continues to be interest and concern about the role of pollinators in our society and look forward to having more discussions in the future,” said Congressman Jeff Denham. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.14.2016	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in response to the terrorist attack in in Nice, France earlier this evening: “Once again the Republic of France has been shattered by a cowardly act of terrorism. I am deeply saddened by the tragic loss of life in Nice and offer my deepest condolences to all who have affected by this repugnant act of violence. I stand shoulder-to-shoulder with the people of France during this dark hour. “Bastille Day is a day for celebration, not for mourning. The international community must not waiver in its efforts to defeat terrorism and those who would support it. Those responsible for this atrocity must be found and brought to swift and unrelenting justice.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.12.2016	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking the one-month anniversary of the Pulse nightclub shooting in Orlando, Florida: “As we mark the one-month anniversary of the worst mass shooting in our nation’s history, Republicans in Congress continue to block important legislation to prevent future tragedies. Americans are demanding action, and Democrats continue to answer their calls by advocating for common sense gun control reforms that will keep us safe without sacrificing the rights of gun owners. “Just last week, House Republicans pulled a watered-down gun violence measure endorsed by the National Rifle Association (NRA) in a cowardly capitulation to fringe members of their own party. It’s time for Republicans to remember who they work for. “Following Orlando, Members of Congress condemned the attack and the House of Representatives held its usual moment of silence, and then went back to business as usual. I think we owe it to the victims of this horrific attack, the countless attacks that have come before it, and the tens of thousands of individuals in this country that lose their lives to gun violence every year to stand up and say ‘no more silence.’ “I join with millions across our nation today in paying homage to the victims of the Pulse nightclub shooting and reaffirming my commitment to passing meaningful gun control legislation in Congress.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.08.2016	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the shooting deaths of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile: “I was shocked and outraged to learn of the deaths of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile, two African American men killed this week. My thoughts and prayers are with their families. “While the details of these shootings are still being determined, Alton and Philando have sadly become the latest victims in a continuing trend of heavy-handed actions against African Americans on the part of law enforcement across the country. We cannot allow the routine deaths of African Americans to go unaddressed, but sadly, we have seen tragedies like these far too often. “I fully support the decision of Attorney General Loretta Lynch to investigate the circumstances surrounding the death of Mr. Sterling in Baton Rouge and would support a similar investigation into the events leading to the shooting of Mr. Castile. I expect to learn more about the circumstances of these shootings in the coming days. As the investigative process continues, we must ensure that justice prevails. “While my heart goes out to the families of these two individuals, just as it has so many other times to other victims in recent memory, I know that thoughts and prayers are not enough. This deeply disturbing trend must be addressed.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.08.2016	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the shooting of Dallas, Texas police officers last night: “I am horrified, heartbroken, and furious this morning. The ambush and murder of police officers is a cowardly and despicable act, and I offer my full support to those working to bring the perpetrators to justice. “While we do not yet know the full circumstances surrounding these shootings, who the shooters were associated with or why they chose to carry out such a horrific act, the targeted assassination of law enforcement officials is clearly an act of domestic terrorism. “I grieve with the victims’ families, the people of Dallas, and our entire nation today. Hatred will not win and we will overcome this darkness.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.05.2016	Today, Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement regarding Secretary Ash Carter’s announcement that the U.S. Department of Defense (DOD) will no longer ban transgender troops from serving openly in the military: “As we celebrated our country’s independence this past weekend, I was also happy to celebrate Secretary Carter’s announcement that the Department of Defense will end its discriminatory ban on transgender troops serving openly in the military. I was proud to join with the individuals and organizations from across the nation calling for an end to this ban, including a recent letter that I sent to Secretary Carter, which detailed my concerns should the ban remain in place. Whether it be to working to end this most recent discriminatory ban or helping to lead the fight in the U.S. House of Representatives to end “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,” I will always remain dedicated to ensuring that those who wish to serve in our military are judged on their ability to do so, not on arbitrary criteria such as race, sexual orientation, gender or gender identity. “I congratulate Secretary Carter for his vision and leadership on this important issue. However, I will continue to monitor the implementation of the new regulations closely as I believe that they should be neither needlessly delayed, nor difficult to enact.” On June 9, 2016, Hastings wrote to Secretary Carter urging an immediate end to any and all regulations that the DOD has in place that result in transgender service members not being able to serve openly in the United States armed forces. (A copy of the letter is attached). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.29.2016	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement in response to the terrorist attack that took place at Ataturk International Airport in Istanbul, Turkey: “I was so deeply saddened and horrified by the terrorist attack that took place at the Ataturk International Airport in Istanbul, Turkey that has claimed the lives over 40 people, and wounded scores of others. My thoughts and prayers are with all of the victims and their families. These senseless acts of terrorism remind us all that there are still people who choose hate and cowardly acts of violence, and highlights the importance of the international community to continue its efforts to work together in combating terrorism. I offer my deepest sympathies to the people of Turkey during this dark hour, and stand united with them in prayer.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.23.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) announced that Ms. Susann Orozco of Fort Lauderdale has won the 2016 Annual Congressional Art Competition for Florida’s 20th Congressional District. Susann’s winning mixed-media entry is titled “Apprehension” and will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol over the coming year. “I am pleased to announce Susann Orozco as the winner of this year’s Congressional Art Competition,” said Hastings. “Susann is a talented artist and I am proud to have her work represent the 20th Congressional District in the coming year.” Susann is currently an 11th grade student at Northeast High School in Oakland Park, Florida, where she studies under her art teacher Karen Klein. In addition to winning the district art competition, Susann travelled to Washington, DC today in order to attend an unveiling ceremony hosted by the House of Representatives. “Susann describes her mixed-medium entry as depicting anxiety, caution, and loneliness. It represents not knowing which path to take for the future: this is a theme we can all relate to,” added Hastings. The Congressional Art Competition has provided an opportunity for young artists to display their talent and creativity, promoting art education in our schools. Since its inception, more than 650,000 high school students have participated in the competition. Any student attending a school located in the 20th Congressional district is qualified to participate. Paintings, drawings, collages, prints, mixed-media, computer generated art, and photography are eligible for submission into the competition. Students and teachers interested in learning more about the Congressional Art Competition should contact Hastings’ Fort Lauderdale Office at (954) 733-2800. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.22.2016	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in support of the Democratic Sit-in on the Floor of the House of Representatives at today’s meeting of the House Rules Committee. Hastings joined the sit-in throughout the day to demand a vote on commonsense gun safety measures. “I don’t want to ignore the fact that ongoing on the floor of the House of Representatives is an effort on behalf of the Democrats to bring to the floor of the House some sensible gun measure that will allow for a vote to be had. I was there all day, at the beginning, and until I decided that I would come up here and at least be present during the Rules Committee proceedings. “I can’t tell you how heavy my heart is. Never mind the litany of all of the horrors that have taken place in our society. Many of us in this room have witnessed them. When I spoke earlier, I asked how many people had had situations of gun violence, not necessarily mass shootings, and every Member there held their hand up. And if there were 435 House members and 100 Senate members and six or seven Delegates of the United States Congress there, all of them would have held their hands up because gun violence is rife in our society. “33,000 Americans were killed last year, and we are headed in that direction again this year. Countless children – even unborn children killed in their mothers’ wombs with gun violence. Never mind casting aspersions on the NRA and gun manufacturers, the aspersions should be cast on all of us. And how dare the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and/or his leadership, or any of you, cut off the microphone. This has only happened one other time. Louise, you may remember when Newt did that once before. That’s absurd. We came here at the instance of just as many people as anyone of you in this room and any member of the House of Representatives. “I didn’t come up here with this kind of speech in mind, but I think it is wrong for us to continue doing nothing. And that’s we’re doing. This bill ain’t going nowhere. The financial services measure isn’t going anywhere. The measure repealing the so-called “Obamacare” isn’t going anywhere and you all know it. So why don’t we just fold the tent and go home rather than sit around here pretending to the American public that we’re doing something. If we can’t bring at least a sensible gun measure, and I think my colleagues are going about it the wrong way. They are asking for something that everybody ought to agree with. No fly, no buy of a gun. How easy is that? Let alone background checks. “It’s ridiculous that we continue down this path with our children, our citizens, our constituents dying with regularity, while in the final analysis we’re doing nothing. But no, no, no: not this time I don’t think you will. What I said before I left was ‘fine, they may stop us today, but we will be back tomorrow,’ and, if nobody but me, I’ll stand on the House of Representatives and says ‘no more are we going to allow for us to be manipulated by manufactures of guns in a way that’s unnecessary…’" Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.20.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement marking World Refugee Day: “For the first time since the United Nations’ High Commission on Refugees (UNHCR) began tracking global displacement, the number of refugees and internally displaced people across the globe has surpassed 65 million. This is a staggering ten percent increase from last year’s estimate and a stark illustration of the state of global conflict. “Violence, persecution, and environmental disasters have forced one in every 113 people to flee their homes. On average, 24 people are displaced every minute. “The United States has contributed significant financial aid for those seeking refuge across the globe, but we can do more to provide safe haven for families and children in need of protection. While some have reacted to this crisis by calling for the rejection of refugees, or even the complete ban of individuals of the Muslim faith from entering our country, I believe our country must challenge itself to do more to protect these vulnerable people. “As a Member of Congress, I have prioritized the advancement of human rights across the globe. Having visited a number of refugee camps, I have seen firsthand the dire needs of refugee communities around the world. This year, let us redouble our efforts to improve the lives of displaced persons and to take more collaborative steps to work to alleviate suffering, violence and persecution worldwide.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.20.2016	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking the beginning of the Yulin Dog Meat Festival: “For weeks, I have worked with organizations and dedicated individuals to raise awareness of the Yulin Dog Meat Festival, which will begin in just a few hours. During the festival, an estimated 10,000 dogs will be skinned alive, burned alive, drowned, or simply beaten to death because of a twisted belief that torture makes the meat taste better. This festival is an abomination. “In Congress, I introduced H. Res. 752, a resolution condemning the Yulin Festival and calling on the Government of China to enact tougher anti-animal cruelty laws. ‪Fifty-four of my colleagues in the House of Representatives, both Democrats and Republicans, have co-sponsored the bill, and I remain optimistic that it will receive a vote on the House floor. “I have also written to Secretary of State John Jerry, President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping, Ambassador of China to the United States Cui Tiankai, and Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress Zhang Dejiang, urging them to take action to end the Yulin festival. “It is unfortunate that these efforts did not lead to the cancellation of this year’s Dog Meat Festival, despite the outpouring of support for doing so. I am truly appreciative of the encouragement this campaign has received, as well as the hard work by people across the world to combat this festival. “Millions of people have called on China to do something. This fight is not over!" Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.17.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking the one-year anniversary of the mass shooting at Emanuel A.M.E. Church in Charleston, South Carolina: “As we look back on the one-year anniversary of a tragic shooting that took nine lives at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal (A.M.E.) Church in Charleston, South Carolina, another act of gun violence ending in tragic loss of life is once again on the forefront of America’s conscience. “Emanuel A.M.E. has played a key role in major periods of American history, including the antebellum South and the Civil Rights Movement. Founded in 1816, the church has survived tragedies spanning from arson attempts to a devastating earthquake. Yet, it was a Wednesday night Bible study that changed the church forever. “As a nation, we continue to see ignorance, hatred, and intolerance give way to violence, leaving countless innocent victims in its wake. These senseless acts of violence can never be understood, but we must find strength in knowing that justice will ultimately prevail. And we must do all that we can to prevent future tragedies." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.16.2016	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letter to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection Commissioner R. Gil Kerlikowske, requesting a response to his letter sent in December 2015. The December letter raised the issue of media reports and other evidence indicating a possibility that some goods manufactured in China being imported to the United States may contain leather made from dogs. Additionally, the letter urges Commissioner Kerlikowske to conduct random testing of leather goods imported to the United States. (Please see below and attached a copy of the letter) June 15, 2016 The Honorable R. Gil Kerlikowske Commissioner U.S. Customs and Border Protection 1300 Pennsylvania Ave, NW Washington, DC 20229 Dear Commissioner Kerlikowske: I write to follow up on a letter sent to your office on December 10, 2015, that called your attention to media reports and other evidence indicating a possibility that some goods manufactured in China and imported to the United States may contain leather made from dogs. As you know, in 2000, the United States instituted a ban on the importation of dog fur and skin. Many American consumers are understandably distressed at the thought that the gloves, jackets, other accessories they purchase from Chinese manufacturers may be constructed in whole or in part from dogs. I was encouraged to see that the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) web page for travelers describes "Prohibited and Restricted Items," which includes a section that informs consumers that dog and cat fur is unlawful to import into the United States. It specifically states: It is illegal in the United States to import, export, distribute, transport, manufacture or sell products containing dog or cat fur in the United States. As of November 9, 2000, the Dog and Cat Protection Act of 2000 calls for the seizure and forfeiture of each item containing dog or cat fur. The Act provides that any person who violates any provision may be assessed a civil penalty of not more than $10,000 for each separate knowing and intentional violation, $5,000 for each separate gross negligent violation, or $3,000 for each separate negligent violation. I am interested to know what your agency is doing to ensure that dog and cat leather does not make it into this country, including any current plans to update relevant agency web pages to educate consumers and travelers about this issue. Furthermore, while the Dog and Cat Protection Act does not prohibit the importation of dog and cat leather products without fur, such products may enter the U.S. mislabeled as another type of leather. Therefore, I urge you to conduct random testing of leather products that enter the U.S. to assure the leather is not mislabeled. Thank you for your time and attention to this important matter. I look forward to a prompt response. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.16.2016	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letter to China’s President Xi Jinping, condemning the Yulin Dog Meat Festival and calling on the Chinese Government to end the dog meat trade that claims the lives of 10 million dogs every year. Joining Hastings as co-signers of the letter were Reps. Tony Cardenas (CA-29), Yvette Clarke (NY-9), Peter DeFazio (OR-04), Suzan DelBene (WA-01), Chaka Fattah (PA-02), Raul M. Grijalva (AZ-03), Sheila Jackson-Lee (TX-18), Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30), Betty McCollum (MN-04), Jim McDermott (WA-07), Loretta Sanchez (CA-46), David Schweikert (AZ-06), Dina Titus (NE-01), and Frederica Wilson (FL-24). (Please below and find attached a copy of the letter). June 16, 2016 His Excellency Xi Jinping President of the People’s Republic of China Zhongnanhai No. 174 Xi Chang’an Jie, Beijing 100017 Dear President Xi: We write to express our deepest concern for the innocent dogs that are horribly mistreated during the Dog Meat Festival in Yulin, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, China. Bipartisan members of the U.S. House of Representatives have come together to condemn the Dog Meat Festival, and respectfully urge your government to end the dog meat trade. An estimated ten thousand dogs are reported to be captured, transported and slaughtered every year for this festival, launched in 2009 as a commercial enterprise to boost lagging dog meat sales. Furthermore, approximately 10 million dogs are killed annually in China for the dog meat trade. Animal rights groups have found that a number of these dogs are stolen pets taken from their homes. Once in transport, these dogs are treated so inhumanely that many of them die on the way to the slaughterhouse after days of being denied food and water. Indeed, even those dogs that manage to survive often trans-provincial dog transport face an almost certain brutal death when they arrive. The World Health Organization has also linked the preparation of dog meat for consumption to the human health risk of exposure to a multitude of diseases, including rabies and cholera. Millions in the U.S., Canada and the U.K. have signed petitions calling upon the Chinese government to end the festival, which is slated in two weeks on June 21, 2016. Alongside these voices, the millions of Chinese citizens who also stand opposed to this festival, and the Yulin city government which has stated that it will not continue to sponsor the event, we urge you to do all that you can to stop this year’s festival from occurring and draft legislation that will prohibit this festival from taking place in the future. We applaud the efforts of the Yulin city government officials and the millions of Chinese citizens opposed to the festival and the dog meat trade more generally. We encourage you to use this strong support to end the festival and dog meat trade as a way to push for the implementation of strong animal cruelty laws that will ensure that these dogs, our companions, are free from further maltreatment. It is our hope that you will use your considerable influence to guarantee that the will of millions of Chinese citizens is reflected in the application of strong laws that will ensure the Dog Meat Festival and dog meat trade end as swiftly as possible. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Cc: The Honorable Cui Tiankai, Ambassador to the United States for the People’s Republic of China Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.12.2016	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) issued the following statement on the mass shooting that took place at Pulse Nightclub in Orlando, FL: “Words cannot express the sadness and sorrow that I feel for the families and friends who lost loved ones in the horrific shooting at Pulse Nightclub. This tragic act of violence is utterly devastating, and a direct attack on the LGBTQ community as our nation celebrates LGBT Pride Month. “While many details are still yet unknown, I stand shoulder-to-shoulder in solidarity with the LGBTQ community and all the people of Orlando. These senseless acts of violence can never be understood, but we must find strength in knowing that justice will ultimately prevail. “I offer my deepest sympathies during this dark hour and stand united in prayer with our nation at this most difficult time.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.10.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letter to U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry, urging him to help combat the global dog meat trade and the annual Dog Meat Festival in Yulin, China. More than 10,000 dogs are reportedly slaughtered every year during the Yulin Festival, which is scheduled to commence on June 21, 2016. (Please find attached and below a copy of the letter): June 10, 2016 The Honorable John Kerry Secretary of State U.S. Department of State 2201 C Street, NW Washington, DC 20520 Dear Secretary Kerry, I am writing to strongly urge you to condemn the Dog Meat Festival in Yulin, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, China, and urge an end to the dog meat trade, not only in China, but worldwide. The dog meat festival is scheduled to commence on June 21, 2016. This festival was launched by dog meat traders as a commercial enterprise to boost flagging sales of dog meat. More than 10,000 dogs are reportedly captured, transported and slaughtered every year for the festival, with more than 10 million dogs killed annually in China for the dog meat trade. Yulin's dog slaughter takes place in residential areas and public marketplaces, imposing scenes of extreme animal cruelty on local residents, including young children who may, as a result, suffer psychological trauma and desensitization. Animal welfare groups have found that a number of these dogs are stolen pets taken from their homes, still wearing their collars when they reach the slaughterhouse to be brutally killed. These dogs suffer mentally from watching other dogs being disemboweled and blow-torched in front of them. This horrific practice is completely unacceptable. I adamantly oppose these horrendous acts, and believe through diligent diplomatic pressure, it can be stopped. Although the Yulin city government withdrew as a sponsor of the Dog Meat Festival, it has taken no meaningful action to enforce China’s existing laws and regulations on animal disease control, food safety, trans-provincial dog transport, or youth protection, all of which are breached by the dog meat trade. Millions of people have called upon the government and Party Secretary, as well as the Mayor of Yulin to prohibit this cruel treatment of dogs in China. I proudly and unequivocally joined this call, when I introduced a bipartisan resolution, H. Res.752, Condemning China’s Yulin Dog Meat Festival and calling on the Chinese Government to end the dog meat trade. In addition, I have written to Ambassador Cui Tiankai and the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress’ Chairman Zhang Dejiang, urging them to take action to end the Yulin festival. While I applaud the efforts of the Yulin city government, I am pleading with you to take these efforts a step further by condemning this festival and the dog meat trade. I respect the traditions of China, but these events and activities tarnish China’s reputation across the world. For these reasons, I urge your immediate attention to this critically important issue. Thank you for your time and consideration of my request, and I respectfully look forward to your reply. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.06.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letter to Speaker of the House Paul Ryan and Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, urging them to allow for the consideration of H. Res. 752 on the House Floor. The legislation, introduced by Hastings last month, condemns the Dog Meat Festival in Yulin, China, and urges the Chinese Government to end the dog meat trade. The Dog Meat Festival will begin on June 21, 2016. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter). June 6, 2016 The Honorable Paul Ryan Speaker U.S. House of Representative H-232, the Capitol Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Kevin McCarthy House Majority Leader U.S. House of Representatives H-107, the Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Speaker Ryan and Majority Leader McCarthy: I write regarding H.Res.752, Condemning the Dog Meat Festival in Yulin, China, and urging China to end the dog meat trade, which I introduced with bipartisan support on May 25, 2016. The Dog Meat Festival in Yulin, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, China dates back to 2009-2010, when it was launched by dog meat traders as a commercial enterprise to boost flagging sales of dog meat. More than 10,000 dogs are reported to be captured, transported and slaughtered every year for this Dog Meat festival, with more than 10 million dogs killed annually in China for the dog meat trade. Animal welfare groups have found that a number of these dogs are stolen pets taken from their homes, still wearing their collars when they reach the slaughterhouse. Many dogs die during transport to the slaughterhouses after days or weeks without food or water, and others suffer illness and injury during transport, such as broken bones. These dogs suffer mentally from watching other dogs being disemboweled and blow-torched in front of them. Yulin's dog slaughter takes place in residential areas and public marketplaces, imposing scenes of extreme animal cruelty on local residents, including young children who may, as a result, suffer psychological trauma and desensitization. The capture, transport, and butchering of dogs and the consumption of dog meat poses a risk to human health by exposing people to a multitude of diseases, including rabies and cholera. This practice, in my opinion, is completely unacceptable, and can be stopped by the diligent efforts of members of the Chinese government. Although the Yulin city government withdrew as a sponsor of the Dog Meat Festival, it has taken no meaningful action to enforce China’s existing laws and regulations on animal disease control, food safety, trans-provincial dog transport, or youth protection, all of which are breached by the dog meat trade. Tens of millions of people around the world have called upon the Government of China, the Governor of the Guangxi Autonomous Region, and the Mayor of Yulin to officially end the Dog Meat Festival and stop the mass slaughter of dogs all year round in Yulin. In addition, the majority of people in China do not consume dog meat and dog meat is not a part of mainstream Chinese culinary practice. Millions of Chinese citizens recently voted in support of a legislative proposal by Zhen Xiaohe, a deputy to the National People’s Congress of China, to ban the dog meat trade. Alongside these voices, I have already written a letter to the Chairman of the National People’s Congress Standing Committee urging him to draft legislation to prohibit this festival from taking place ever again. I respect the traditions of the Chinese people, but these events and activities tarnish China’s reputation across the world. Given that this year’s Dog Meat Festival will begin on June 21, 2016, I urge that H.Res.752 be immediately considered on the House floor. I thank you for your time and consideration of my request, and stand ready to do all that I can to assist with bringing this critically important resolution to the floor. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Cc: The Honorable Nancy Pelosi, Democratic Leader, U.S. House of Representatives The Honorable Steny Hoyer, Democratic Whip, U.S. House of Representatives The Honorable Jim Clyburn, Assistant Democratic Leader, U.S. House of Representatives The Honorable Ed Royce, Chairman, U.S. House Committee on Foreign Affairs The Honorable Eliot Engel, Ranking Member, U.S. House Committee on Foreign Affairs
06.02.2016	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement regarding the indictment of former police officer Raja in the shooting death of Corey Jones on October 18, 2015. “ Yesterday’s indictment of former police officer Nouman Raja in the fatal shooting of Corey Jones is a welcome development as the community works hard to rebuild the trust between citizens and law enforcement,” said Hastings. “Corey was a beloved member of his community and his death is a tragic reminder of why it is imperative that law enforcement agencies implement operating procedures that ensure these tragedies never happen again. To that end, I was proud to introduce the Corey Jones Act of 2016, which would make certain that law enforcement agencies no longer allow undercover officers to engage in routine traffic stops,” Hastings continued. “The pain and loss felt by not only the Jones family, but our community more generally, should not be in vain, and therefore, we must all work together to ensure that such tragedies never happen again.” ###
06.01.2016	(Fort Lauderdale, FL) Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement regarding the upcoming hurricane season, which begins today, June 1, 2016: “While it is impossible to predict exactly when and where hurricanes will take place in the coming months, forecasters agree that the Atlantic hurricane season may be a busy one. These destructive and often unpredictable storms pose significant danger to our communities, and it is critical that all Floridians adequately prepare for them. “I will continue to work closely with federal, state, and local agencies in the coming months to ensure that the necessary resources are available in the event of a natural disaster. In particular, I will push for much-needed reform as it relates to prioritizing power restoration, debris removal, the availability of local generators, and ensuring temporary housing for those who become displaced. “It is imperative that all Floridians prepare early, in order to be ready if a hurricane should make landfall.” For additional information on the 2016 hurricane season, please visit Hastings’ official website at www.alceehastings.house.gov ###
05.30.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking Memorial Day: “On this Memorial Day, let us take a moment to remember the brave men and women who have fought and died in defense of our country. Let us honor their courage, sacrifice, and dedication to preserving the freedoms we so closely cherish. “We must continue to fight for the rights of all veterans, active duty members of the armed forces, and their families. As our troops come home from conflicts overseas, the need for veterans’ services across the nation will continue to grow. Many veterans have already faced difficulty navigating the Veterans Administration’s (VA) health care, disability, education, and job placement services. We must ensure that these services are accessible to those who need them and that they may access these services in a timely manner. I am committed to serving each and every one of my constituents returning home from deployment, and indeed every American veteran, as they access the services and benefits they rightly deserve. “This Memorial Day, I proudly join all Americans as we thank and honor those serving today and those who have served this country in the past in an effort to protect our national security and those freedoms we have forever held so dear.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.26.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letter to Ambassador Cui, China’s Ambassador to the United States, urging the Ambassador to do all that he can to ensure that the dog meat festival in Yulin, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, China is cancelled, and that future festivals are banned. Hastings also urged the Chinese Government to end the dog meat trade. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter). May 26, 2016 The Honorable Cui Tiankai Ambassador Embassy of the People’s Republic of China 3505 International Place, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20008 Dear Ambassador Cui: I write to you today to express my deep concern for the dogs that are horribly mistreated during the Dog Meat Festival in Yulin, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, China and to draw your attention to H.Res.752, which I introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives on May 25, 2016. My resolution condemns the Yulin Dog Meat Festival and respectfully calls on your government to end the festival and, more generally, the dog meat trade. As you know, this year’s Dog Meat Festival is scheduled to take place on June 21, 2016. In order to save thousands of innocent dogs from being grossly mistreated and slaughtered, I implore you to do all that you can to see to it that this year’s festival is cancelled and that future Dog Meat Festivals are banned. It is notable that the Yulin city government has itself withdrawn as a sponsor of the festival. Disappointingly, however, city government officials have not yet taken meaningful action to enforce China’s already well established laws regulating animal disease control, food safety, trans-provincial dog transport, or youth protection, all of which are violated by the dog meat trade and by many of those taking part in the Dog Meat Festival. I believe that with your leadership, and the leadership of President Xi, city officials in Yulin can be convinced that their best course of action is to fulfill their respective duties to see to it that Chinese law is followed thereby saving thousands of dogs from a certain and tortuous death. The grotesque festival, and the dog meat trade more generally, serve as a call to action for not only the millions of Chinese citizens who care for and love animals, but for all such people around the world. I fully understand that the majority of people in China do not consume dog meat and that your government has sound and well established laws under which those who engage in and perpetuate the dog meat trade could be prosecuted. I simply and respectfully ask that you join me in standing with the millions of Chinese citizens who are on record denouncing the dog meat trade, and ensure that this terrible trade and festival celebrating it end as swiftly as possible through the just adjudication of Chinese law. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.25.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) introduced a resolution condemning China’s Yulin Dog Meat Festival and calling on the Chinese Government to end the dog meat trade. (Please find attached a copy of the resolution.) “During the Yulin Dog Meat Festival, 10,000 stray dogs and stolen pets are captured, caged, and slaughtered. This extreme spectacle of animal cruelty is both inhumane and a threat to public health in Yulin. The United States cannot stay silent, and so that is why I am introducing legislation in Congress today to shine a light on this horrific event.” More than 10 million dogs are killed for human consumption every year in China. The trade often includes criminal activity and the theft of pets, and poses a serious risk to human health. The World Health Organization (WHO) has linked the trade to cholera and rabies. Hastings with Chauntell Hawkins and Little Ricky, a rescue dog from Yulin, China that was saved from inhumane slaughter “I recently wrote to the Chairman of the National People’s Congress Standing Committee urging him to draft legislation to prohibit this festival from taking place in the future. My legislation condemns the festival and calls on the Government of the People’s Republic of China to impose a ban on the killing and eating of dogs as part of Yulin’s festival, enact anti-animal cruelty laws banning the dog meat trade, and enforce China’s food safety laws regulating the processing and sale of animal products.” The legislation is endorsed by: The Humane Society of the United States, Humane Society International, the Humane Society Legislative Fund, the Animal Welfare Institute, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, and American Dog Rescue Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors of the legislation were: Representatives Robert Brady, Vern Buchanan, Tony Cardenas, ‎Steve Cohen, Peter DeFazio, Ted Deutch, Chaka Fattah, Raul Grijalva, Eddie Bernice Johnson, Barbara Lee, Gwen Moore, Brad Sherman, Frederica Wilson, Jared Polis, Gregory Meeks, Matthew Cartwright, Katherine Clark, Lois Frankel, William Lacy Clay, Patrick Murphy, William Keating, Dan Donovan, Suzanne Bonamici, Brendan Boyle, Gerald Connelly, Eleanor Holmes Norton, and Robert C. "Bobby" Scott. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.25.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement after participating in the 5th Annual Congressional Foster Youth Shadow Day. Hastings was shadowed by Ms. Betty Prescott of Broward County. “I am happy that Ms. Prescott was able participate in today’s Foster Youth Shadow Day, not only because it gave her the opportunity to observe a day in the life of Congress, but also because it gave me a chance to talk to someone who has passed through the foster care system. Her first-hand insights were enlightening, and I am grateful for her willingness to share her experience with me. "Betty is determined to change the foster care system for incoming youth as they transition and adapt from whatever difficult place they were removed. She is passionate about mentoring young children. "As a member of the Congressional Foster Youth Caucus, I want to thank all of the foster youth who came to Capitol Hill to share their experiences with Members of Congress today. It is my sincere hope that my colleagues will continue to unite behind this worthwhile program." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.20.2016	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) recently sent the following letter to the Slovak Ambassador in United States raising concerns over the recent rise of far-right political parties championing bigotry and hatred. Joining Hastings as co-signers of the letter were Representatives Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), James P. McGovern (D-MA), David N. Cicilline (D-RI) and William R. Keating (D-MA). (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter.) May 13, 2016 His Excellency Peter Kmec Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary The Embassy of the Slovak Republic in Washington 3523 International Court, NW Washington, D.C. 20008 Dear Ambassador Kmec: We write to congratulate the Slovak Republic on its most recent parliamentary elections. At the same time, we are concerned by the recent rise of far-right political parties that champion bigotry and hatred – we know that the majority of the Slovakian people do not share such values. However, we encourage the government to do all that it can to rid the country of the hatred directed at Slovakia’s Jewish, LGBT and Roma communities, respectively. Indeed, when leaders of political parties in Slovakia make statements in which they refer to members of the Roma as ‘Gypsy parasites,’ ‘the others,’ and ‘Gypsy terrorists’ they erode the important democratic gains your country has made since its independence. We know that the rise of anti-Semitism, homophobia and the denigration of the Roma people are not problems solely found within Slovakia, but rather has been on the rise across Western and Eastern Europe. This is a problem that all of us who are dedicated to democracy, human rights, and the rule of law must confront together. We welcome President Andrej Kiska strong example in defending vulnerable groups. Also, we commend Minister of Justice Lucia Zitnanska for her International Roma Day statement. However, we hope you will translate this letter to your authorities as we encourage your government to speak out against those who insist on perpetuating a xenophobic and bigoted narrative in Slovakia, and we stand ready to help you confront this problem in any way we can. Since its independence, the Slovak Republic has developed strong diplomatic ties with the United States; ties that we are proud to support especially in light of your country’s effort to continue the realization of democratic gains, including an increased commitment to human rights and the rule of law. It is because of our high regard for the impressive democratic steps your country has taken since its independence that we write to you today. The growing tide of individuals who see value in attacking vulnerable groups within Slovakia undermine and threaten the democratic gains the country has worked so hard to achieve. We stand ready to work with you to address the increase in attacks against the Roma, refugees, Jews and LGBT, so that your country’s commitment to human rights and the rule of law is not put in further jeopardy. Again, we stand ready to work with your government and look forward to a combined effort to put an end to bigotry and hatred once and for all. Sincerely, ____________________ Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress ________________ Eliot L. Engel Member of Congress ____________________ Alan Lowenthal Member of Congress _____________________ James P. Mcgovern Member of Congress ____________________ David N. Cicilline Member of Congress _____________________ William R. Keating Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.19.2016	(Washington, D.C.) Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on passage of Amendment #16 to H.R. 4909, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017. The amendment exempts reimbursements for medical expenses from the Department of Veterans’ Affairs (VA) calculation of annual income when determining pension eligibility for veterans. “This important amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act will rectify a grave injustice. The VA’s inclusion of medical reimbursements as a form of income in relation to pension eligibility has led to situations where low-income veterans are cut off from their pensions at the moment they need them the most. This is wrong, and it is high time this loophole be addressed. I am pleased my amendment passed and will continue to work to ensure this exemption is enacted into law. ” When assessing a veteran’s eligibility for a pension, the VA considers a variety of sources of revenue to determine his or her annual income. If such income exceeds the income limit set by the VA, the veteran does not qualify for a pension, or loses his or her benefits. Under current law, reimbursements resulting from any accident, theft, loss, or casualty loss are exempted, while reimbursements for medical expenses are not. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.19.2016	Today, Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Tom Rooney (R-FL) introduced a bipartisan resolution recognizing the importance of nonprofit organizations and designating September as "Nonprofit Organization Recognition Month" (Please find a copy of the resolution attached.) “Nonprofit organizations advocate for solutions to some of the great challenges facing our nation and the world. They contribute to advancements in science, research, and health care, and work to improve education, support civil and human rights, and protect environmental resources. The men and women who advocate tirelessly for the causes they believe in deserve to be recognized for their valuable contributions to society,” said Hastings. “I thank Congressman Rooney for co-leading this worthwhile effort with me.” “As a former CEO of a nonprofit organization, I have seen firsthand the critical services that nonprofit organizations provide to their communities,” Rooney said, who served as CEO for the nonprofit Children’s Place at Home Safe, a home for abused and neglected children. “Establishing a National Nonprofit Month will help acknowledge the invaluable work that nonprofits across the country do all year round.” Joining Hastings and Rooney as original co-sponsors of the legislation were: Representatives Madeleine Z. Bordallo (D-GU), Matthew Cartwright (D-PA), John Conyers, Jr., (D-MI), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ), Mike Honda (D-CA), Eleanor Holmes-Norton (D-DC), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Grace Meng (D-NY) and David Price (D-NC). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.12.2016	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement marking Yom Ha'atzmaut, Israel’s Independence Day: “I am delighted to mark the 68th anniversary of the creation of the modern State of Israel. Today, we celebrate Israel’s remarkable growth and the special relationship enjoyed between our two countries. “For 68 years, Israel has stood as an example of democracy and freedom in a region often marred by violence and oppression. Our nations share many values, from democratic principles to the freedom of religion. Together, we have worked hand-in-hand to develop new technologies, innovations, and medical advancements that have reverberated across the globe. “Yet too often, Israel’s very right to existence is questioned on the world stage. I have travelled to Israel and the surrounding region many times as a Member of Congress, and have seen first-hand the threats of indiscriminate rocket attacks, terror tunnels, and lone-wolf terrorism. Now, under renewed threat from a global surge in anti-Semitism and anti-Zionism, including efforts to boycott, divest, or otherwise isolate Israel, it is more important than ever that we stand in unity with our greatest ally. “I will continue to do all that I can in Congress to ensure that Israelis have a secure and peaceful homeland. As Co-chair of the Democratic Israel Working Group, I am pleased to mark this Yom Ha’atzmaut and extend to the people of Israel my best wishes on the 68th anniversary of Israel's Independence Day.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.04.2016	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement commemorating the 55th anniversary of the first Freedom Ride: “Fifty-five years ago today, 21 brave young men and women changed the course of our nation’s history. The Freedom Riders boarded buses and headed south in protest of segregated interstate buses and trains. They were met with both protests and violence, but remained undeterred. “We can never forget their sacrifice in the fight against discrimination and bigotry, nor can we ignore the realities facing many African Americans today. One quarter of all African Americans live below the poverty line, and historical inequalities in education, jobs, housing, and justice still remain. Furthermore, in recent years, many states have enacted laws purposefully disenfranchising minority voters throughout the United States from casting their ballots in our nation’s elections. I believe that we must remain ever vigilant to ensure that we continue to move forward towards a more inclusive country free from prejudice. “Today, we honor the Freedom Riders for their bravery, and must recognize that the fight for equal rights and equal opportunities has yet become a full reality.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.04.2016	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in recognition of Holocaust Remembrance Day and the Days of Remembrance: “Between 1940 and 1945, two out of every three Jews in Europe perished in ghettos, mass shootings, forced labor camps, and extermination camps during the Holocaust. By the end of World War II, nearly eleven million people had been murdered by the Nazis – Jews, Roma, homosexuals, Jehovah’s Witnesses, Soviet prisoners of war, political dissidents, and individuals with disabilities. Approximately one and a half million were children. “We observe Yom HaShoah and the Days of Remembrance this week to honor the lives that were cut short by this tragedy. As the systematic persecution of Jews spread across Europe, few nations took action. Though there were many individuals that aided or hid Jews, many nations, including the United States, turned away Jewish refugees. Every year, there are fewer survivors left to tell their stories. As we face a resurgence of anti-Semitism and continued threats of new violence against ethnic minorities around the world, we must remain vigilant. “This week, let us remember those who were lost during the Holocaust and focus on bringing an end to violence and persecution around the world.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.02.2016	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking the 10th annual Jewish American Heritage Month: “During Jewish American Heritage Month, we pay tribute to the achievements made by the Jewish American community. Jewish Americans have helped shape our nation since its inception, contributing to research and academia, arts, sports, and business, and standing at the forefront of movements for civil rights and equality. “I am proud to serve alongside a number of Jewish American Members of Congress. Together, we work to make our country a more prosperous and tolerant place. “As we recognize the legacies of the Jewish Americans who have helped make our nation what it is today, we must take time to reflect on the work that remains ahead. Forces of anti-semitism are on the rise across the globe, and at home, the struggle for equal opportunity continues. As we celebrate the heritage of Jewish Americans this month, let us refocus our efforts on making our country a more inclusive society for all.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.29.2016	On Thursday, April 28th, the Congressional Homelessness Caucus, Co-Chaired by Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), hosted a briefing on the state of homelessness in the America. The Caucus was joined by representatives of the National Alliance to End Homelessness, which earlier this month released its annual report, the State of Homelessness in America. The report can be found here: http://www.endhomelessness.org/library/entry/SOH2016. “I was pleased to work with my colleague Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson to host the second Congressional Homelessness Caucus briefing of 2016. It is fitting that our conversation focused on the state of homelessness, and particularly the areas in which our response to homelessness has been lacking. Working together, Congresswoman Johnson and I recently submitted requests to the House Appropriations Committee to fully fund each of the 24 programs included under the umbrella of the Interagency Council on Homelessness, and to expand upon our response to family homelessness in America. With adequate resources, we can end homelessness in America,” said Congressman Alcee L. Hastings. “I want to thank the National Alliance to End Homelessness for their continued work in this area, and will continue to prioritize efforts in Congress to end homelessness once and for all.” “In 2015, more than half a million people experienced homelessness on a given night. We have made progress on a national level and that number has decreased,” said Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson. “Unfortunately, the State of Homelessness in America showed that despite an improving economy, more families and individuals are vulnerable to homelessness especially in the 16 states that reported an overall increase in homelessness. This is another reason why Congressman Hastings and I requested full funding for the homelessness programs under the Interagency Council on Homelessness. I thank Congressman Hastings for working on this issue with me and the National Alliance to End Homelessness for their commitment to preventing and ending homelessness in America.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.19.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement after introducing the Veterans Pensions Protection Act of 2016 (please find attached a copy of the legislation): “I am pleased to again introduce the Veterans Pensions Protection Act. By closing a loophole in the Department of Veterans’ Affairs (VA), this legislation will protect our nation’s most vulnerable veterans from unfairly losing their pensions.” The Veterans Pensions Protection Act of 2016 exempts reimbursements for medical expenses and pain and suffering from the VA’s calculation of income when determining pension eligibility. Under current law, these forms of compensation are considered income and count against a veteran’s pension. “A few years ago, a constituent of mine was confronted with this terrible situation. A disabled veteran, he was struck by a vehicle while crossing the street in his wheelchair. After he received an insurance settlement to cover the damages and his medical expenses, his pension was abruptly cut off. Without it, he could not cover his daily expenses or his mortgage. Luckily, he did not lose his home, but the fact that such a situation is even permissible is totally unacceptable. This oversight needs to be addressed.” Three additional exemptions were proposed in an earlier version of this legislation (the Veterans Pensions Protection Act of 2011) and were included in the Honoring America's Veterans and Caring for Camp Lejeune Families Act of 2012, which was signed into law by President Obama on August 6, 2012. Because of this, 38 USC § 1503(a)(5) now exempts certain reimbursements for material goods from the VA’s calculation of income. “I am pleased that the U.S. Congress already acted to exempt reimbursements for material goods damaged by accident, theft, loss, and casualty loss – exemptions I called for in a previous version of this legislation – from the VA’s income calculations. Now it’s time to finish the job and ensure that our veterans are protected from being cut off from the pensions. Congress should pass this measure without delay.” Joining Hastings as original-cosponsors of this legislation were Representatives Madeleine Bordallo (D-GU), Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY), John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Lois Frankel (D-FL), Alan Grayson (D-FL), Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ), Luis Gutierrez (D-IL), Brian Higgins (D-NY), Mike Honda (D-CA), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Walter B. Jones (R-NC), Dan Lipinski (D-IL), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Jim McGovern (D-MA), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Aumua Radewagen (R-AS), Charles B. Rangel (D-NY), Tom Rooney (R-FL), Bobby Rush (D-IL), Gregorio Sablan (D-MP), Janice Schakowsky (D-IL), and José E. Serrano (D-NY). The legislation has been endorsed by the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), Vietnam Veterans of America (VVA), the Retired Enlisted Association (TREA), and the National Guard Association of the United States. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.19.2016	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on yesterday’s bus bombing in Jerusalem: “It is more and more clear that yesterday’s explosion aboard a #12 bus in the Talpiot neighborhood of Jerusalem was a terror attack. This bombing is reprehensible and must be condemned by the international community. “For months Israel has grappled with daily stabbings, shootings, and other terror attacks. Hundreds of civilians have been wounded or killed. This violence has declined in recent weeks, but yesterday’s bombing threatens to dramatically escalate tensions. “Terrorism must not be tolerated. I continue to stand in support of our ally Israel's right to defend herself.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.18.2016	Today, Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Co-Chairmen of the Congressional Everglades Caucus, released the following statement marking National Park Week, which runs from April 16th through April 24th. Throughout National Park Week, the National Park Service offers free admission to National Parks across the United States. “This year as the National Park Service celebrates its centennial, let us recommit ourselves to promoting environmental stewardship and conserving our public lands. These places are treasures that must be preserved, so that all our daughters and sons can experience their grandeur for generations to come,” said Hastings. “As Co-Chair of the Congressional Everglades Caucus, I am dedicated to the preservation of one of South Florida’s biggest gems, as well as all national parks throughout our country.” Through the "Find Your Park" campaign, the National Park Service is helping more people visit public lands and landmarks -- from state and local parks that capture our nation's natural beauty to historical sites that offer unparalleled perspectives into our past. Congressman Diaz-Balart said, “I am pleased to congratulate the National Park Service on its centennial. For 100 years, the NPS has provided Americans access to beautiful parks across the country. Everglades National Park is one of our state’s natural treasures, and I am proud to co-chair the Congressional Everglades Caucus to advocate for its protection and preservation.” Find out more about National Park Week, the National Park Centennial, and how to find your park at http://www.nationalparks.org/national-park-week. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.12.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking Equal Pay Day, the date to which the average woman must work to in order to earn what her male counterpart earned the previous year: “Despite passage of the Equal Pay Act 53 years ago, women still do not receive equal pay for equal work. As we mark Equal Pay Day this year, it is critical that do not lose sight of the need to ensure equal compensation for all American, regardless of gender, sex, or ethnicity. “Today, women make only 79 cents for each dollar earned by men, and the gap is wider for women of color. This disparity adversely affects millions of women and their families, and our country suffers because of it. “The When Women Succeed, America Succeeds economic agenda highlights the outdated polices affecting women in our workforce and offers common sense alternatives through legislation. I proudly stand with Democrats in Congress in support of critical reforms that will benefit millions of women – expanding paid family and medical leave, increasing the minimum wage, ensuring fairness for pregnant workers, and increasing resources for wage discrimination investigations.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.11.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letter to Consulate Healthcare in support of employees striking for a living wage. Joining Hastings in signing the letter were Representatives Kathy Castor (D-FL), Lois Frankel (D-FL), and Ted Deutch (D-FL). (Please see below and attached a copy of the letter.) April 11, 2016 Bill Mathies CEO Consulate Healthcare 800 Concourse Parkway S Maitland, FL 32751 Dear Mr. Mathies: It has come to our attention that some caregivers employed by Consulate Healthcare, especially some long-term employees, are still being paid less than $15 an hour which many people regard as a living wage throughout Florida. As nearly 20 percent of Florida’s population is over the age of 65, a proportion that is only increasing, we understand how important companies like Consulate Healthcare are to providing good quality care for Florida’s seniors. Because America’s caregivers are at the heart of quality care, we believe low wages can have serious consequences for nursing homes residents due to the high rates of worker turnover and high resident to caregiver ratios. We are concerned to learn that the current situation at your facilities in Florida has driven some of your employees to make the tough decision to go on strike. For the safety of your residents and the well-being of the caregivers and their families, we urge you to work to find a viable solution that will allow for continued growth of your company while also ensuring living wages for Florida’s caregivers and quality care for our seniors. Thank you for your time and consideration. We look forward to a speedy resolution to this issue and would like to hear back from you about your thoughts and concerns on these matters. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Kathy Castor Member of Congress Lois Frankel Member of Congress Ted Deutch Member of Congress
04.08.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement marking International Romani Day: “On International Romani Day, we celebrate the culture of the Romani people and recognize the challenges they face today. Europe’s largest minority population, the Romani have been subject to discrimination for centuries and continue to suffer from human rights abuses. Their culture is rich, yet deeply rooted stereotypes and prejudices remain prevalent. “No person should be denied education or work because of their ethnicity. The challenges facing the Romani are not insurmountable and I remain optimistic for the future. As we work to ensure the basic human rights of all peoples, we reaffirm today our support for the Roma communities across the world.” International Roma Day was first celebrated on April 8, 1990 during the fourth World Romani Congress of the International Romani Union (IRU). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.05.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement after Mississippi Governor Phil Bryant signed a controversial measure into law allowing businesses and other private organizations to refuse service to lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender (LGBT) individuals based on religious belief: “Governor Bryant’s decision to sign the so-called ‘religious freedom’ bill is totally unconscionable. Every day, qualified and hardworking Americans are denied job opportunities, harassed, fired, or otherwise discriminated against just because they are LGBT. We should be working together to strengthen protections for these individuals, not implementing laws that sanction discrimination. Prejudice is not a religious liberty, and this misguided effort is, quite simply, wrong. “Our nation can only truly prosper when all of its citizens are guaranteed equal rights and equal protection in every state. It is our responsibility to ensure that our laws protect the rights of all citizens, regardless of their gender identity or sexual orientation. We have made great progress advancing LGBT rights, and cannot allow the clock to be turned-back. I will continue to stand with the LGBT community in opposition to these types of discriminatory measures.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.02.2016	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letter to the Citizens’ Stamp Advisory Committee (CSAC), urging the committee to create a stamp honoring the life and legacy of Lena Horne (please find below and attached a copy of the letter): April 1, 2016 The Citizens' Stamp Advisory Committee (CSAC) United States Postal Service 475 L’Enfant Plaza, SW Rm. 3300 Washington, DC 20260 Dear CSAC Members: I write to propose that American born, Lena Mary Calhoun Horne (June 4, 1917 – May 9, 2010) of Brooklyn, New York, be put on a postage stamp. At the age of 16, Ms. Horne was hired as a dancer in the chorus of Harlem’s famous Cotton Club, where she was introduced to such legendary jazz performers as Duke Ellington, Cab Calloway, Count Basie, Ethel Waters, and Billie Holiday. In 1940, she became one of the first African American women to perform with an all-White band when she toured with Charlie Barnet’s jazz band as its featured singer. She was discovered by a Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer (MGM) talent scout and became the first African American artist to sign a long-term contract with a major film studio. Despite her extraordinary beauty and talent, Ms. Horne was often limited to minor acting roles because of her race. Scenes in which she did sing were cut out when they were sent to local distributors in the South and studio executives cast another actress as Julie in the film version of “Show Boat” instead of Lena Horne, because they did not want the show to star an African American actress. However, Ms. Horne dazzled audiences and critics in a number of films, including “Cabin in the Sky” and “Stormy Weather” before ultimately turning back to a more lucrative, inclusive career in show business, performing across the nation in nightclubs and on Broadway. A strong supporter of American troops, during World War II, Lena Horne toured extensively with the United Service Organizations (USO) on the West Coast and in the South. She expressed outrage about the way African American soldiers were treated, firmly opposing segregation and discrimination. She was dismayed to find that the military was implementing such strong measures of separation based on race, and actively protested performing when she saw that German Prisoners of War (POWs) were seated ahead of Black servicemen. In general, she refused to sing for segregated audiences and made it a point to speak out on the issue when performing before her large crowds of mixed races. During the period of McCarthyism in the 1950s, Ms. Horne was blacklisted as a communist for 7 years because of her civil rights activism and friendship with Paul Robeson and W.E.B. Du Bois. In 1957, she recorded Lena Horne at the Waldorf-Astoria, which reached the U.S. Billboard Top 10 and became the best-selling album by a female singer, regardless of race, in RCA Victor’s history. She rose to international stardom and toured the world, sharing the stage with such names as Count Basie, Tony Bennett, Billy Eckstine, Vic Damone, and Harry Belafonte, and also starred in musical and television specials with such giants as Judy Garland, Bing Crosby, and Frank Sinatra. Throughout her life, Ms. Horne used her fame to become a powerful voice for civil rights and equality. In 1963, she participated in the historic March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom at which Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., delivered his immortal “I Have a Dream” speech. Ms. Horne had gained renowned respect for her courage in maintaining a firm stake in the Civil Rights movement, and met President John F. Kennedy days before his death later that year. Ms. Horne also performed at rallies throughout the country for the National Council for Negro Women and worked with the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), of which she was a member from the age of 2, as well as the Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. and National Urban League. She would go on to play herself on such staple American shows as The Muppet Show, Sesame Street, and Sanford and Son. Through the end of the 20th century, she continued to entertain large audiences of all ages, races, ethnicities and backgrounds. In 1981, she captivated audiences with her one-woman Broadway show, “Lena Horne: The Lady and Her Music,” which enjoyed a 14-month run before going on tour, and earned her a special Tony Award and two Grammy Awards. In the 1950s, she actually became the first woman to have been nominated for a Tony Award. In 2002, 73 years after the Academy Awards were first awarded, Halle Berry became the first African American woman to win an Oscar for Best Actress and recognized in her acceptance speech how Lena Horne paved the way for her and other African American actresses. Ms. Lena Horne was an entertainer, activist, and mother who used her beauty, talent, and intelligence to fight racial discrimination and injustice and rise to international stardom. A symbol of elegance and grace, she entertained people of all walks of life for over 60 years, and broke barriers for future generations. Lena Mary Calhoun Horne was an extraordinary community leader whose contributions and courageous spirit helped transform our nation from a segregated society to a nation committed to the never ending challenge of perfecting our union. It was Ms. Horne’s struggles and triumphs that made it possible for us to stand here today and continue the fight for equality, justice and progress for all, regardless of race, religion, gender or sexual orientation. It is for these reasons that I ask the Committee to consider Ms. Horne for a Commemorative Stamp. I thank you for your time and look forward to your response. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.30.2016	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent a letter to Congressional appropriators urging the Subcommittee on Defense to fully fund Peer-Reviewed Breast Cancer Research through the Congressionally Directed Medical Research Program in Fiscal Year 2017 (Please find attached a copy of the letter.) “I am pleased to again lead the effort in Congress to fully fund Peer-Reviewed Breast Cancer Research through the Defense Department’s (DoD) Congressionally Directed Medical Research Program (CDMRP). This year, more than 150 Members of Congress joined me in urging the Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense to support this critical program. “The DoD CDMRP funds innovative, targeted research that is not conducted anywhere else, making it a promising vehicle for scientific breakthroughs and advancements in breast cancer research. The program has already helped us to better understand the growth of certain types of cancer cells, leading to the development of new drugs and for previously untreatable types of breast cancer. “Last year, approximately 231,840 women and 2,350 men in the United States were diagnosed with invasive breast cancer. In my state alone, an estimated 11,850 new cases in women will be diagnosed this year. We owe it to these individuals and their families to continue funding this lifesaving research.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.30.2016	Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Elizabeth Esty (D-CT) sent a letter to the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies, requesting full funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Medical and Prosthetic Research program: “The number of veterans utilizing prosthetic services from the VA has increased dramatically in recent years. Approximately six percent of our wounded service members who have returned from Iraq and Afghanistan have lost a limb, and many others require services to recover from motor and sensory injuries. The VA has continued to develop new technologies and innovations to assist our veterans as they return to their normal lives, and we are lucky to have such a world-class institution on the forefront of this research,” said Congressman Alcee L. Hastings. “I am truly amazed by the technology being developed through VA Centers of Excellence – technology that will improve mobility for millions of people and even allow those with partially paralyzed muscles to be able to move again. I thank Congresswoman Esty for leading this effort to fully fund this valuable research, and urge the committee to allocate the necessary resources for those who have sacrificed so much.” “The men and women that serve our country in uniform do so at great risk to their health and safety,” said Congresswoman Elizabeth Esty. “We have a responsibility to ensure that our veterans have access to the most effective care and innovative treatments available. To meet that obligation, Congress must act to further our understanding of the mental and physical conditions that most commonly afflict our veterans.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.29.2016	Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX) called on congressional appropriators to prioritize family homelessness and services for homeless individuals in Fiscal Year 2017. In submitting a formal letter to the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies, Hastings and Johnson urged the committee to make it easier for local communities to prioritize their own needs in responding to homeless populations, and expand access to effective services for homeless individuals (Please find attached a copy of the letter.) “Six years ago our country launched a coordinated effort to bring an end to homelessness. Congresswoman Johnson and I have continuously advocated for fully funding the initiative, called Opening Doors, which has had great success in getting homeless veterans and the chronically homeless off the streets, and assisting those on the verge of losing their homes,” said Congressman Alcee L. Hastings. “Despite these successes, far too many Americans remain on the streets, and today, nearly half of those in our country without permanent shelter are families. Local communities know their own needs and are best positioned to assist vulnerable populations of homeless individuals. That is why it is so important that the Subcommittee continue to support Opening Doors, but also include provisions that give local communities the ability to better address the needs of their homeless populations. I thank Congresswoman Johnson for co-leading this effort, as well as all of the Members of Congress who supported our letter.” “Since Opening Doors began, we have seen great success in reducing homelessness among certain populations of Americans,” said Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson. “We must continue to focus on preventing and ending homelessness for American families, who remain the most vulnerable. We know that local communities are best poised to determine the needs of the local population and to provide services to those individuals. We also know that Trauma-Informed Care, treatment that respects understanding, recognizing, and responding to the effects of trauma, is a valuable approach to providing services. Thanks to Congressman Alcee Hastings, we have brought these issues to the attention of the Appropriators.” Hastings and Johnson are the founders and Co-chairs of the Congressional Homelessness Caucus. The Caucus works to educate Members of Congress on the challenges and most effective solutions for eliminating homelessness in the United States. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.29.2016	Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Patrick E. Murphy (D-FL) sent a letter to the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Agencies, urging Congressional appropriators to include funding for Israel’s Ethiopian community in Fiscal Year 2017 (please find attached a copy of the letter.) “For decades, the United States has worked closely with Israel to improve the safety and livelihoods of its citizens. I am pleased to lead this effort to further build upon our relationship and work together to assist one of Israel’s most in-need minority communities,” said Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (FL-20). “The Ethiopian National Project has for years prioritized the success of Israel’s Ethiopian community, working with local municipalities to operate neighborhood outreach centers that provide supplementary academic tutoring for thousands of youth. This program, which already partners with a number of private organizations and the Jewish Federations of America, has had great success at reaching at-risk youth, and the model shows promise for a sister-city partnership in the United States in the future. Through this initiative, we can work together to better lift up those in need.” “With thousands of Ethiopian youth in Israel classified as in-need, this critical program has helped support and empower these at-risk students to help them better integrate into Israeli society and achieve academic success,” said Congressman Patrick E. Murphy (FL-18). “I thank Congressman Hastings for his leadership on this issue, making sure this vital program, which harnesses public-private partnerships, has the resources it needs to continue with the hope that its success can be replicated to help at-risk youth in the United States.” The Ethiopian National Project operates in 23 communities across Israel. The program serves approximately 3,413 in-need youth in its scholastic assistance programs, approximately one quarter of the 12,000 Ethiopian youth in Israel classified as in-need. The proposed funding would allow the program to reach a greater portion of the at-risk population, and lay the groundwork for a future sister-city program in the United States. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.22.2016	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after a series of explosions ripped through Brussels in a coordinated terror attack this morning: “My heart breaks for the people of Brussels. I offer my prayers and deepest condolences to those who lost loved ones. “I am overcome with sadness and anger today, but take solace in knowing that those responsible for these cowardly attacks will be brought to swift and total justice. All of Europe was targeted by this morning's savagery, yet the values that unite us remain unshaken. We will never relent in our fight against terrorism. “As the details of these attacks are uncovered, I offer my full support to the Belgian government.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.17.2016	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) introduced a resolution condemning the murder of Taylor Force by a Palestinian terrorist in Israel, and calling on Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas to condemn acts of terrorism (Attached is a copy of the resolution): "Today, I introduced a resolution condemning the murder of Taylor Force by a Palestinian terrorist, and calling on President Abbas to denounce terrorism and end incitement against Israel. A wave of terrorism continues to be seen throughout Israel, carried out by lone-wolf attackers with knives, screwdrivers, cars, and guns. Last week, this terrorism claimed the life of Taylor, a graduate of the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, a U.S. Army veteran, and a graduate student at Vanderbilt University. "Taylor exemplified the very best of our country, and I offer my heartfelt condolences to his family and friends. “This heinous attack against Taylor and 10 others was just the latest in a series of terrorist attacks that have numbered nearly 350 since September 2015. I will continue to call for not only the end of these acts of terrorism, but also on Palestinian Authority President Abbas to once and for all condemn terrorism and those who commit it, unequivocally. These calls have also been echoed by President Obama, Secretary Kerry, and many others. And yet, to this day, they have gone unanswered. “Instead, as happened following the murder of Taylor, Fatah and Hamas continue to glorify terrorists as martyrs and praise the murder of civilians. Even worse, the Palestinian Authority and the government of Iran have continued to champion payments to terrorists and their families, and Iran has even pledged to pay terrorists and their families $7,000 for committing acts of terrorism. “The violence in Israel deserves swift and clear condemnation, not just from the United States, but from the Palestinian government and the entire international community. If there is any chance of peace in the future, it can only happen through peaceful and bilateral discussions, not calls for bloodshed. Incitement that encourages Palestinians to ram cars into Israeli pedestrians, stab men, women, and even children with screwdrivers and kitchen knives must cease immediately.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings represents Florida’s 20th district, and serves as a Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida delegation. ###
03.09.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (FL-20) made the following statement after the Republic of Iran conducted a ballistic missile test in violation of U.N. Security Council (UNSC) Resolution 2231: “When I announced my opposition to the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon, my decision was based on a number of considerations, chief among them the question of Iran’s trustworthiness. I was wary that aspects of the plan that allowed Iran to remain a nuclear threshold state while simultaneously reaping the benefits of sanctions relief were highly problematic. Given Iran’s history of deception, I called for a better deal. “Iran this week tested nuclear capable ballistic missiles, in violation of UNSC resolutions and the JCPOA. It is not the first test they have conducted since the JCPOA was enacted. Three times now, Iran has violated UN restrictions, flauntingly violating international law and threatening our allies and assets in the Middle East. All the while, Iran has continued to fund terrorist organizations such as Hezbollah, Hamas, and call for the destruction of Israel. This is entirely unacceptable. “With these continued provocations, Iran has proved that it is still a threat, and that it has no respect for the agreement to which it has bound itself. The United States and the international community must make it clear that Iran will be made to honor the agreement that it signed, or face harsh consequences. I will work with my colleagues in Congress to ensure that Iran is held accountable and that the necessary actions are taken to enforce the JCPOA and protect the safety of our allies in the region.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings represents Florida’s 20th district, and serves as a Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida delegation. ###
03.09.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the wave of terrorism in Israel and the murder of American citizen Taylor Force: “I offer my heartfelt condolences to the family and friends of Taylor Force. Taylor, a graduate of the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, a U.S. Army combat veteran, and a graduate student at Vanderbilt University, was killed in a stabbing spree at the Jaffa Port, the latest victim of an ugly wave of terrorism sweeping through Israel. Taylor exemplified the very best of our country, and I hope that his memory will be a blessing for all who knew him. “Israel continues to grapple with the reality of terrorism nearly every day, carried out with knife, scissor, and vehicular ramming attacks. To date, there have been 201 stabbings and attempted stabbing attacks, 81 shootings, and 41 vehicular attacks against Israelis throughout the country. "When this wave began last year, I felt compelled to introduce legislation in the House of Representatives describing in detail 66 terror attacks that occurred in Israel throughout the month of October alone, and calling on the Palestinian Authority to unequivocally condemn acts of terrorism. Instead, as happened following the murder of Taylor, Fatah continues to glorify terrorists as martyrs and praise the murder of civilians." “The wave of violence in Israel deserves swift and clear condemnation, not just from the United States, but from the Palestinian government and the entire international community. Terrorism and incitement cannot be tolerated, and I will continue to stand in support of our ally Israel's right to defend herself.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings represents Florida’s 20th district, and serves as a Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida delegation. ###
03.02.2016	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement celebrating Women’s History Month: “Congress first designated Women’s History Month in 1987, in recognition of the many struggles, contributions, and triumphs of women throughout American history. This month, I join with millions of Americans in celebrating women’s history. “In recent years, America has witnessed extraordinary new gains for women, who have made incredible strides in business, medicine, law, higher education, science and the arts. A record number of women serve in Congress, 88 in the House and 20 in the Senate, and throughout American society, women have played an integral part in our nation’s fabric. It is an honor to celebrate the successes of America’s women, their persistence, strength, and contributions to our great society. “I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to give women the same opportunities and pay as men. The economic agenda of House Democrats, When Women Succeed, America Succeeds, promotes equal pay for equal work, paid family and medical leave, affordable child care, and better retirement security for women. As we celebrate Women’s History Month, let us recommit ourselves to all causes that make America a better place for our mothers, daughters, and granddaughters.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.23.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement announcing the winners of the 2015 Congressional App Challenge: “I am pleased to congratulate Shanese Wright and Nehemie Augustin on being selected as the winners of the 2015 Congressional App Challenge (CAC) for Florida’s 20th Congressional district. Shanese and Nehemie submitted an entry titled, ‘Happy Help Hub,’ an online service envisioned to help kids and teens feeling anxious or in stressful situations. The app, which is designed to be used on a smart phone, tablet or computer, would advise young people where to go for answers, whether it is for help with a difficult homework assignments or problems with bullying. “This competition was created because we in Congress recognize how essential computer science and science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) skills are. Our country faces a gap when it comes to jobs in these high-skilled fields, and only by recognizing and encouraging our nation’s young programming talent can our country overcome this shortfall. STEM education is critical and I am proud to support initiatives like the CAC, which will foster the next generation of high-skilled workers in our country.” The Congressional App Challenge competition encourages high school students to learn how to code in order to create their own applications. The Challenge is intended to highlight the value of computer science and STEM education, as well as encourage students to engage in these fields. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.19.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings made the following statement after hosting a Social Security Town Hall at Kings Point, Tamarac. Joining Hastings at the Town Hall was Congressman John B. Larson of Connecticut, principal author of H.R. 1391, the Social Security 2100 Act. “It should go without saying that Social Security is a promise to the American people that must be kept. Millions of Americans have benefited from the financial security provided by the program, enabling them to retire with dignity and live independently after a lifetime of hard work,” said Congressman Hastings. “I commend the work that Congressman Larson has done to further strengthen Social Security, and am proud to be an original co-sponsor his legislation, the Social Security 2100 Act. This legislation would expand benefits for all current and future Social Security recipients, cut taxes for over 10 million seniors, and keep the system solvent for the rest of the century. More than 60 million people depend on the monthly retirement, survivor, and disability benefits that they receive through Social Security. I will continue working with Congressman Larson to ensure the system is kept strong, safe, and solvent for years to come.” "I am proud to work with Rep. Hastings on addressing our ongoing retirement crisis. Social Security is the backbone of our retirement system, and millions of seniors depend on it for the majority of their income. We must ensure they get the benefits they have paid for throughout a lifetime of hard work. Our plan will strengthen benefits, prevent Americans from retiring into poverty, and make sure seniors see a cost of living adjustment that actually reflects the costs they incur. I thank Rep. Hastings for his tireless work on behalf of seniors in Florida and across our country," said Congressman Larson. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.13.2016	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the passing of Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States of America Antonin Scalia: “As the longest-serving justice on the Supreme Court, Justice Scalia was a stalwart advocate of Conservative values. While our perspectives on many of the issues facing our nation differed greatly, Justice Scalia served our nation loyally and with distinction. I offer my heartfelt condolences to his wife Maureen, his children, and his family during this time of sadness.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.06.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) issued the following statement in recognition of the 16th Annual National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day: "National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day is a continuing reminder of the impact that the HIV/AIDS epidemic has had on the African American community. This year, let us rededicate ourselves to the effort to educate more individuals about HIV/AIDS, get more individuals tested for HIV, and increase access to treatment to save more lives. “Due to various health and socioeconomic disparities, African Americans remain more likely to become infected with HIV, be living with AIDS, and face HIV-related deaths than any other racial group. In particular, African American youth, women, and men who have sex with men (MSM) are disproportionately affected. African Americans represent approximately 14 percent of the U.S. population, but account for almost half of all new HIV infections in the United States each year. In addition, black men are six times more likely to be infected with HIV than white men. At some point in their lives, about one in sixteen black men will be diagnosed with HIV, as will one in thirty-two black women. Furthermore, over two-thirds of women who become infected with HIV are African American. “Discouragingly, over 73,000 HIV-infected people in the African American community were unaware of their status in 2011. It is time that we break the cycle of infection and death. We must all take responsibility for our health and know our status. And as a community, we must look out for each other and make sure that individuals have the knowledge, resources, and support they need to stay healthy. "In the 114th Congress, I will to continue to work with lawmakers, health care providers, faith leaders, and all members of the community to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS as long as there are still individuals living with this disease, we must continue to raise awareness, address stigma, and improve access to treatment and care." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.05.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after receiving an A from the National Education Association for the 114th Congress: “I am truly honored to receive this recognition from the National Education Association (NEA). Our nation is rooted in the belief that all Americans deserve an equal opportunity to achieve the American dream. In today's world, a quality education is crucial to the realization of that dream. We are blessed to live in a country that promises every child access to a free, public education, and we should be proud that American universities are regarded as the finest in the world,” said Hastings. “I remain dedicated in my commitment to support legislative initiatives that make education a top priority in order to increase American competitiveness within the international community by meeting our responsibility to invest in our nation's children and ensuring that every student has equal access to a quality education.” The NEA generates a scorecard to measure Congress’s overall Legislative support (behind-the-scenes advocacy for education and educators, bill co-sponsorships, committee votes and Congressional members’ accessibility to education advocates in their home state or district) for public education and educators. To view the scorecard in its entirety, please visit http://www.nea.org/home/57694.htm. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.04.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings released the following statement urging Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell to provide emergency relief for the citizens of Flint, Michigan: “The scope of this crisis is still coming into focus, but it is clear that the situation in Flint requires immediate action. Congress needs to step up, and do so immediately! “Senate Republicans, after agreeing to an emergency aid package for the people of Flint, have now chosen to block assistance from reaching this community. We are morally obligated to provide for our citizens in need, and I call on Majority Leader McConnell to break this logjam and pass legislation to get the people of Flint the aid they require. We cannot politicize something as fundamental as water. Congress must work to provide relief when and where it is needed.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.03.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement in recognition of Black History Month: “This month, our country celebrates the remarkable history and valuable contributions of Africans Americans. Black history is an inseparable part of American history, and Americans of color have impacted every aspect of our nation’s culture, from the arts and humanities to research, scientific exploration, and public service. “Recently, we marked the 150th anniversary of the ratification of the 13th Amendment, which abolished slavery in our country. In the century and a half that followed, the journey of African Americans was marred by setbacks and injustices – many of which still exist today. From emancipation to the Civil Rights Movement, the journey of the Black community across America exemplifies perseverance and triumph. “It is undeniable that disparities in employment, wealth, and education still exist among communities of color, and across the country, new laws have been enacted that restrict the ability of minorities to vote. These issues must be addressed by Congress. “Together with Members of the Congressional Black Caucus, I have worked to prioritize legislation to level the playing field and make it easier for all Americans to cast their ballots on Election Day. These issues affect all Americans, regardless of race, color, or creed. During Black History Month, and throughout the year, let us continue our efforts to ensure all Americans receive equal treatment and opportunity.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.02.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) hosted a roundtable discussion on gun violence in America. The discussion, which included a number of organizations working to curb gun violence, focused on practical steps that can be taken to reduce gun violence in the wake of President Obama’s executive actions earlier this year. Joining Hastings at the Roundtable were Representatives David Cicilline (D-RI), Robin Kelly (D-IL), Brenda Lawrence (D-MI), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Scott Peters (D-CA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Bobby Scott (D-VA), Patrick Murphy (D-FL), Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), Elizabeth Esty (D-CT), and Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA). “I am pleased to have organized today’s roundtable discussion on gun violence in our country. This is an issue that needs to be addressed, and we can’t afford to wait,” said Congressman Hastings. “In my view, President Obama’s recent Executive Orders are necessary and certainly welcomed, but they are not sufficient. It is the responsibility of Congress to act in the best interest of the American public, and we have not done that. As Democrats continue to push for common-sense reforms, such as expanded background checks on gun sales, we have been stymied at every turn by Republicans beholden to the powerful gun lobby. I have said it before and I will say again here today – with each new tragedy that occurs, those who stand in the way of legislation that addresses our country’s gun violence epidemic are increasingly culpable for its continuation. Americans deserve a future that is free from the onslaught of gun violence and we cannot relent in this fight.” Joining Hastings at the roundtable were representatives from Americans for Responsible Gun Solutions, Everytown for Gun Safety, the Center for American Progress, Faiths United to Prevent Gun Violence, Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, and the National Organization of Black Law Enforcement Executives. “I want to thank Congressman Hastings for leading this roundtable discussion and continuing the important conversation about reducing gun violence. It's time for Members of Congress to work together to close the loopholes in our nation’s gun laws that allow criminals and other dangerous people to buy guns without background checks and that allow domestic abusers to possess guns simply because they are not married to their victims,” said Liz Avore, Legal Director at Everytown for Gun Safety. "We thank Congressman Hastings for hosting today's roundtable on gun violence and for continuing the discussion on how Congress must pass laws to reduce gun violence in our communities. The President's executive actions were an important first step and Congress should follow suit by passing commonsense legislation to close the loopholes in our background check laws, prevent domestic abusers' from accessing guns and strengthen federal gun trafficking laws - steps that will prevent tragedies and save lives,” said Miri Cypers, Director of Federal Affairs for Americans for Responsible Solutions. “Faiths Untied To Prevent Gun Violence is committed to educating American citizens and policymakers that there are effective tools to prevent gun violence, said Vincent DeMarco, National Coordinator of Faiths United To Prevent Gun Violence. “We are doing all we can through the website www.taleoftwostates.com to spread the word that one of the most the most effective tools is handgun purchaser licensing which helped to reduce gun homicides by 40% in Connecticut.” “We are eager to work with all members of Congress who are interested in making progress to reduce gun violence in this country by enacting common sense laws and policies to help keep guns out of the wrong hands. We look forward to continuing the conversation started today and thank Rep. Hastings for convening this group,” said Chelsea Parsons, Vice President for Guns & Crime Policy at the Center for American Progress. “On behalf of the National Organization of Black Law Enforcement Executives (NOBLE) Executive Board, chapters, and members, it has been a honor to participate in the roundtable discussion on gun violence,” stated Clarence Cox, Second Vice President of the National Organization of Black Law Enforcement Executives (NOBLE). “We applaud Congressman Alcee Hastings for his leadership in working to address this very important issue that has resulted in the senseless loss of life of many of our fellow Americans including our youth.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.02.2016	Today, Congressmen Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Co-Chairmen of the Congressional Everglades Caucus, introduced the Everglades for the Next Generation Act. The bill is the House Companion to legislation that was introduced by Senator Bill Nelson (D-FL), which authorizes Central Everglades Restoration Plan (CERP) projects and gives the Army Corps of Engineers the flexibility it needs to continue the restoration of the Everglades ecosystem. Please see the attached copy of the legislation. “The Everglades for the Next Generation Act ensures that necessary Everglades restoration progress continues,” said Congressman Alcee L. Hastings. While much has been accomplished on projects vital to restoring the Everglades, there are still a number of projects that have yet to be completed. This legislation authorizes future restorations that will strengthen the South Florida ecosystem and environment, bolster our local economy, and creates jobs. I am proud to introduce this legislation in the House of Representatives and look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure it is passed. "I am pleased to co-sponsor this bill that will speed up the lengthy, yet necessary process to restore the Everglades. Instead of having to wade through bureaucratic tape each time a project is completed, the Army Corps of Engineers can seamlessly continue the work they are doing to protect the ecosystem. The Everglades is a natural treasure that we cannot take for granted, and we must do everything we can to ensure the restoration process continues to go smoothly," said Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart. “When the water level in Lake Okeechobee gets too high, we either risk flooding or release the water and kill the rivers: that’s an impossible choice we shouldn’t have to make. That’s one of the reasons it’s important to get more Everglades restoration projects moving as soon as possible. There’s simply too much at stake to wait around for Congress to pass another water bill,” said Senator Bill Nelson. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.27.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after receiving a 100+ rating from the Humane Society for the first session of the 114th Congress: “I am truly honored to receive this acknowledgment from the Humane Society. I have proudly offered my support to a number of legislative initiatives that seek to ensure that all animals receive fair and humane treatment, and that those used for research are used lawfully and in the most humane way possible,” said Hastings. “I believe that it is essential for us to protect those animals that cannot protect themselves. I remain steadfast in my commitment to support legislative initiatives that seek to ensure that all animals receive fair and humane treatment and that those used for research are used lawfully and in the most humane way possible.” Each year, the Humane Society Legislative Fund (HSLF) creates a scorecard to accurately measure Congress’s support on animal rights. HSLF scorecard captures sponsorships and co-sponsorship of Members’ support for bills, letters, floor votes, and co-signatures of letters addressing animal welfare issues. The 2015 Humane Scorecard can be viewed here. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.27.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking International Holocaust Remembrance Day: “I join the international community in pausing today to honor the millions of innocent men, women, and children that were murdered during the Holocaust. The United Nations (UN) has declared the theme of this year’s International Holocaust Remembrance Day to be ‘the Holocaust and Human Dignity.’ As we face growing global instability, it is fitting that we recommit ourselves to protecting the human rights of all people. “I am honored to represent an area with one of the largest populations of Holocaust survivors in the world. These individuals are a testament to the resilience of the human spirit, and throughout my tenure in Congress, I have worked to do all I can to ensure that they can live in dignity. I will continue to work with others in Congress to make sure the necessary services are available to Holocaust survivors living in the United States. “Seventy-one years since the liberation of Auschwitz-Birkenau, anti-semitism still thrives around the world, and the prevalence of Holocaust denial and other acts of global anti-semitism is again on the rise. We must stand with the Jewish community in Europe and work with our European allies to confront and put an end to these heinous acts. “Today let us remember those who were lost and reaffirm our commitment to combating injustice and prejudice worldwide.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.22.2016	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement recognizing the 43rd anniversary of the landmark U.S. Supreme Court’s decision in Roe v. Wade: “Today we mark the anniversary of Roe v. Wade against the backdrop of constant attacks on women’s reproductive rights. This ruling, handed down 43 years ago, affords women the right to make their own choices regarding their reproductive healthcare. Yet time and again, my Republican colleagues continue to thumb their noses at this established constitutional right in order to appease to the extreme political agenda of a few members of their party. “Women have the right to control their bodies and make their own healthcare decisions. The Republicans’ obsession with cutting off access to women’s healthcare, including continued efforts to defund organizations like Planned Parenthood, is as misguided as it is insulting. Even worse, it endangers the well-being of millions of women. “As we mark the anniversary of Roe v. Wade, I will proudly continue to oppose any efforts to weaken or eliminate access to women’s healthcare providers.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.22.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement congratulating President-elect Tsai Ing-wen on her historic victory of being elected as Taiwan’s first female President: “I extend my sincere congratulations to President-elect Tsai Ing-wen on her victory in Taiwan’s presidential election. Dr. Tsai’s win is a mark of the trust and confidence the Taiwanese people have vested in her as she works to continue Taiwan’s growth as a strong, fair and prosperous nation. “As Taiwan’s first female president, Dr. Tsai will be an outstanding role model for young women in Taiwan and around the world. The people of Taiwan should be proud of achieving this historic milestone. I am confident that under Dr. Tsai’s leadership, Taiwan’s democracy will continue to flourish for the benefit of all Taiwanese people. “I also extend my warmest wishes to outgoing President Ma Ying-jeou for the important steps he has taken to improve regional stability and the development of strong ties between the United States and Taiwan during his tenure. I look forward to further strengthening the relationship between Taiwan and the United States as our two countries work together to advance common interests and enhance peace, equality and economic prosperity, regionally and globally.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.15.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement in commemoration of Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, which honors the life and legacy of the civil rights leader: “Every year, we pause to honor the life and legacy of Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Our nation is forever indebted to Dr. King, who inspired and challenged us as he led the charge for equality, fairness, and justice for all Americans. “This fight is just as relevant today as it was during the Civil Rights movement. Years of progress on voting rights have faced new setbacks. Criminal justice reforms to end the disproportionate penalties directed towards Black Americans are not happening fast enough. Across the country, a new movement protesting these systemic injustices has taken root. “We must build on the lessons of the past to reject prejudice, fight discrimination, and oppose the demonization of any American regardless of their skin color or ethnicity. “Just last week, President Obama reminded us of what can be accomplished when we work together. The choices we make today, in Congress and across the country, will shape the future of our nation. “This future must be one of inclusion and tolerance. Let us again look to Dr. King for inspiration.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.12.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement in response to President Obama’s final State of the Union address: “Tonight, the President talked about choice. The choice of how our nation will provide for its citizens; how we will invest in the education of our children and the responsible development of our country’s resources; and how we will lead as we meet the rising challenges across the globe. The choices we in Congress make today will shape the future of our nation, not for us, but for future generations to come. “President Obama’s speech tonight was optimistic and hopeful for the future. I proudly share many of his visions for the direction of our nation. There is no doubt that we face a number of challenges, but we will rise to meet them all. “I recognize that for this to happen, we must work together, which means that something will need to change in the way that Congress conducts its business. “For too long, extreme partisanship has gripped this institution, transforming issues where there is common-ground into partisan squabbles. Rather than work with Democrats to help the most vulnerable within our country, Republicans in Congress have tried to run out the clock on the President, holding up critical legislation, while voting more than 60 times to take healthcare away from millions of our citizens. “Combating gun violence is a perfect example. More than two thirds of the American public believe that tighter restrictions on firearms are needed. And yet, Republicans in Congress, beholden to the powerful gun lobby, continue to demonize and obstruct every effort to enact common-sense reform. “I do not believe this is what Americans want from their government. I believe that the American people want leaders who choose to engage in dialogue in order to find common ground. This partisan rancor has gone on for far too long. “The President tonight reminded us of what can be accomplished when we work together. I hope that we can find a way to put aside the partisan ultimatums of recent years and work together to address the many issues facing this great nation in Congress.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.08.2016	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and the Palm Beach County Congressional Delegation today introduced the Corey Jones Act of 2016, which would prohibit the award of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) grant funding to local police departments that do not prohibit plain-clothes officers from engaging in routine traffic stops in unmarked vehicles. The legislation is named after Corey Jones, a resident of Lake Worth, who was shot and killed by a plain-clothes law enforcement officer operating an unmarked vehicle during the early hours of October 18, 2015. Please find attached a copy of the legislation. “This common-sense legislation will help keep both law enforcement and the citizens they police safe,” said Congressman Hastings. “Tragic incidents like the death of Corey Jones can easily be avoided by prohibiting plain-clothes law enforcement officials driving unmarked vehicles from making traffic stops. These situations lead to confusion and even confrontation. As Co-Chair of the ongoing Broward Community Policing Roundtable, which works to strengthen and foster relationships between law enforcement officers and the communities they serve, I believe that imposing this requirement on COPS grant recipients will make our communities safer,” further noted Hastings. “After the heartbreaking death of Corey Jones last fall, I joined our entire community in not only mourning his loss but also looking at what could be done to prevent such tragedies in the future," said Congressman Patrick Murphy. “Following conversations with his family and community leaders, I am proud to join Congressman Hastings in introducing the Corey Jones Act of 2016. I also applaud the Palm Beach Gardens Police Department for enacting changes to their plainclothes officers policy and approving the start of a body camera program this week. We honor Corey’s memory by taking actions such as these to increase public safety and improve trust between law enforcement and their communities.” “The family and friends of Corey Jones have suffered a heartrending loss, and while no legislation can fill the void left in their hearts by this tragedy, what it can do is spare more families such grief and anguish,” said Congressman Ted Deutch, a member of the House Judiciary Committee. “The community-driven effort to ensure that Corey’s loss is not in vain has already led to meaningful change at the local level. Today, we are carrying forward those efforts at the federal level, and I applaud my good friend Congressman Hastings for leading the way with the introduction of the Corey Jones Act.” “Last fall, I joined our entire South Florida community in mourning the loss of Corey Jones, a talented musician and dear friend to many,” said Congresswoman Lois Frankel. “It’s our hope that this bill, which bears Corey’s name, will help prevent another tragedy and better the relationship between police officers and the citizens they serve.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.08.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking the 5th anniversary of the mass shooting in Tucson, Arizona: “Five years ago, our nation was shocked with sadness and anger when 19 individuals, including my friend and colleague Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords, were shot during a Congressional community outreach event in Tucson, Arizona. This mass shooting polarized our country. And yet, Congress has done nothing in its wake to curb the flow of guns into the hands of dangerous individuals. “Our nation has a gun problem. Congress has a gun problem. Gun violence takes the lives of tens of thousands of Americans every year. However, Republicans in Congress, beholden to the powerful gun lobby, continue to demonize and obstruct every effort to enact common-sense reform. “In October 2015, I sent a letter to the President urging him to use his Executive Branch powers to address our nation’s gun policies. I was pleased when President Obama announced earlier this week that he will take such actions, strengthening backgrounds checks and increasing funding for federal agencies that work to prevent gun violence. “Congressional passage of these types of reforms is long overdue. It is my sincere hope that those in Congress frustrated by the President’s Executive actions use them as an impetus to draft and pass additional bipartisan reforms that uphold our citizens’ constitutional rights, while simultaneously making our communities safer. “Today, we recognize the 5th anniversary of a national tragedy. Since the shooting in Tucson, more than 130,000 Americans have been killed by firearms. I will continue to prioritize addressing gun violence in all of its forms and encourage all Americans to join me in demanding change now.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.05.2016	On Wednesday, January 6th, the House Rules Committee’s Subcommittee on Legislative and Budget Process will meet to consider H.R. 1610, the Biennial Budgeting and Enhanced Oversight Act of 2015. The hearing will take place in room H-313 of the U.S. Capitol at 10:30 AM. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) serves as Ranking Member of the subcommittee. The following members will testify before the Subcommittee: Representative Reid Ribble Representative Tom Cole Representative Tom McClintock Representative David Price Representative Kurt Schrader DETAILS: WHO: Congressman Alcee L. Hastings WHAT: Subcommittee on Legislative and Budget Process Hearing on H.R. 1610, the Biennial Budgeting and Enhanced Oversight Act of 2015 WHEN: Wednesday, January 6th at 10:30 AM WHERE: H-313 (House Rules Committee Hearing Room) Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.05.2016	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after President Barack Obama announced a series of executive actions to curb gun violence in America: “I applaud the President’s executive actions to curb gun violence in America. Dismayed by Congress’ lack of motivation to tackle gun violence in our country, I sent a letter to President Obama on October 15, 2015 encouraging him to take executive action to address the gun violence epidemic. “I am heartened to learn that the President’s actions will ensure that all individuals engaged in the business of selling firearms will be subjected to background checks and that the needed funding for these background checks will be provided to the F.B.I. and A.T.F. I was also happy to learn that Attorney General Lynch has already started to contact all U.S. Attorney Offices encouraging them to renew their domestic violence outreach. These steps will undoubtedly help to curb the gun violence crisis. “While I support these measures, I also think Congress should have voted to enact them many months ago. It is shameful that Republicans in Congress continue to refuse any action to curb gun violence, even as tens of thousands of Americans lose their lives from guns every year. “Congress needs to act to close the gun-show loophole, expand mental health screenings, and close the gaps in existing gun laws. Only by taking these actions can we ensure that all necessary steps are being taken to prevent firearms from falling into the hands of dangerous individuals. “With each new tragedy that occurs, those who stand in the way of legislation to address our country’s gun violence epidemic are increasingly culpable for its continuation. This year, I intend to prioritize addressing gun violence in America.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.16.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after introducing H.R. 4253, the Avonte’s Law Act of 2015 (Avonte’s Law), which authorizes the creation of a grant program to provide local law enforcement agencies with resources, education, and training to better respond to situations related to children with autism and other disabilities who wander. (Please find attached a copy of the legislation): “Avonte’s Law was inspired by the tragic circumstances surrounding the death of Avonte Oquendo of Queens, New York. Avonte was an autistic child who disappeared after wandering away from his school. Sadly, more than a month passed before his lifeless body was found. “Wandering” is very common in children with autism and other disabilities, and sometimes children who wander are non-verbal or cannot communicate well with others. This can lead to dangerous interactions with strangers and even law enforcement officers. “Avonte’s Law authorizes $10 million in grants through the Department of Justice to provide local law enforcement agencies with the resources they need to better prepare first responders, schools, and families for situations like Avonte’s, with the hope that we can prevent tragedies like this from happening again. “Furthermore, this legislation requires the Attorney General to establish standards and best practices for the administration on voluntary “tracking” systems used by law enforcement agencies awarded funding through this program. Tracking devices are one of the many ways we can help prevent another tragic situation like Avonte’s, and by taking a holistic approach to this issue, we can help children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) live safe and happy lives all around the country.” A March 2014 study published by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimated that 1 in 68 American children are born with a form of ASD, representing a 30% increase from just two years ago. Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors of the resolution were (5): Representatives Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ), Patrick E. Murphy (D-FL), Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. (D-GA), and Chris Van Hollen (D-MD). This bill is a companion to Senate Bill (S.163), introduced by Senator Chuck Schumer and co sponsored by Senators Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Christopher S. Murphy (D-CT), Richard Burr (R-NC), and Tammy Baldwin (D-WI). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.09.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) reintroduced the Restoring the Partnership for County Health Care Costs Act of 2015, which would prohibit the federal government from stripping individuals of their Medicare, Medicaid, CHIP, and SSI benefits, before an inmate has been convicted of a crime. (Please find attached a copy of the legislation): “The U.S. Supreme Court’s interpretation of the 8th Amendment requires government entities to provide medical care to all inmates. As a result, local governments are burdened with the expense of providing health care to thousands of men, women, and juveniles currently awaiting trial. “Although these inmates are incarcerated, they are innocent until proven guilty. As such, they should still be entitled to their medical benefits, and not at the expense of local governments, which are already trying to manage widespread budget deficits and cuts to safety net programs and other essential services. "Some of the inmates are incarcerated for a year and a half, while they await trial, meaning local governments have to shoulder the burden of providing their health care. Terminating their benefits also violates the presumption of innocence, which is the cornerstone principle of our justice system. This also disproportionately affects low-income and minority populations, who are often unable to post bond, which would enable them to continue receiving benefits.” Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors of the resolution were (7): Representatives Barbara Lee (D-CA), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Chaka Fattah (D-PA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Hank Johnston (D-GA), and Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.09.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the below letter to President Obama urging the establishment of a critical habitat designation for the endangered Florida panther. The Florida panther is one of the most endangered species in the world, and less than 180 of them survive today. Joining Hastings in sending the letter were Representatives Patrick Murphy (D-FL), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Lois Frankel (D-FL), Vern Buchanan (R-FL), Curt Clawson (R-FL), Frederica Wilson (D-FL), Debbie Wasserman Schultz, and Cathy Castor (D-FL). Please find below and attached a copy of the letter: December 9, 2015 The Honorable Barack H. Obama President of the United States The White House Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Obama: The Florida panther is one of the most endangered species in the world as less than 180 of them survive today. As you know, the two greatest threats to the Florida panther are the loss of habitat and automobile-related deaths, both of which are caused by increased development in environmentally sensitive areas. The best available science suggests that current lands in conservation do not provide enough suitable habitat area to support even the limited number of existing panthers. Further, on November 28th, two more panthers were killed by cars. As members of the Florida delegation, we are writing to request your support in establishing a critical habitat designation for the endangered Florida panther. The Florida panther was listed as an endangered species in 1973, but critical habitat has never been established, even though the Endangered Species Act includes a requirement for the designation of critical habitat for endangered species. In other words, the Florida panther is protected by the federal Endangered Species Act, unfortunately its home is not. It is of great importance to designate a critical habitat not only because it would preserve and encourage the growth of the current population of Florida panthers, but also because it would help to protect other valuable environmental resources, such as wetlands, aquifer-recharge areas, drinking water supplies and the habitat of other endangered species. At the top of the food chain, Florida panthers help keep feral hog numbers in check and deer, raccoon and other prey populations balanced and healthy. Moreover, a designation of critical habitat does not mean that no further development is allowed in an area, it simply requires additional review when projects requiring federal permits would impact habitats considered essential to preventing the Florida panther from going extinct. We urge you to ensure the continued existence of the Florida panther and the preservation of Southwest Florida’s natural resources and unique character by supporting the designation of critical habitat for the endangered Florida panther. Thank you for your time and consideration. The decision to take action now will provide a historic opportunity for protecting the Earth’s most endangered “umbrella species” – the Florida panther. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Patrick E. Murphy Member of Congress Theodore E. Deutch Member of Congress Lois Frankel Member of Congress Vern Buchanan Member of Congress Curt Clawson Member of Congress Frederica S. Wilson Member of Congress Cathy Castor Member of Congress Debbie Wasserman Schultz Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.04.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement in response to yesterday’s Senate vote to repeal the core pillars of the Affordable Care Act: “It is absolutely outrageous that the Republicans are continuing their attempts to roll back health care benefits for millions of Americans. The Republican-led House has voted more than 60 times to repeal all or part of the law, and now the Senate has jumped on the same tired bandwagon. “For seniors and those with disabilities across the nation, over 5.1 million have saved $3.2 billion on their prescription drugs. Yet, Republicans continue to play politics with our nation’s health care system. Congress needs to get back to the business of helping our nation’s most vulnerable, as opposed to trying to push them to the winds of despair. The American people deserve better.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.03.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement regarding the passage of the conference report to reauthorize the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA): “There should be no question that access to education must be equal across America. Since 1965, the ESEA has been an essential tool for promoting fair and equal access to quality public education and helping to reduce educational disparities between students of all backgrounds, ethnicities, cultures, abilities, and beliefs. “The Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA) is a significant improvement to the status quo and a critical step in upholding and defending the principal of equal access to education, codified in Brown v. Board of Education. “As we continue to work to improve education across America, we must ensure that regional and migrant populations do not suffer under revised allocation methods. We must also be mindful that funding for all minorities is kept at a level that does not put them at a disadvantage.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.02.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the shooting in San Bernardino, California: “For the second time in a week, a mass shooting has left our nation in a state of shock and grief. As the situation in San Bernardino continues to unfold, my thoughts and prayers are with the victims of this terrible violence, and my gratitude is with the first responders on scene. “We have become far to accustomed to gun violence in our nation. We owe it to the victims of this attack, and the scores of others that have come before it, to act to curb the violence. “I offer my deepest sympathies to the people of San Bernardino during this sad time.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.01.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in commemoration of the 27th Annual World AIDS Day: “Each December 1st we mark World AIDS Day, a day on which we reflect on the tremendous progress we have made in our collective response to HIV/AIDS. Today, let us recommit ourselves to the fight to rid the world of this disease once and for all. “This year’s World AIDS Day theme is ‘The Time to Act is NOW,’ which underscores our resolve to put a stop to new HIV infections, discrimination, and AIDS-related deaths. “Approximately 35 million people are living with HIV globally, 19 million of which are unaware that they are infected. Although the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) and the Global Fund have been instrumental in dramatically reducing its occurrence in developing countries – new HIV infections worldwide are down 35 percent since 2000, and AIDS-related deaths have been reduced by 42 percent since their peak in 2004 – much work still remains. “On this World AIDS Day, let us rededicate ourselves to ending the global HIV/AIDS epidemic and tackling the challenges we still face in understanding, treating, and preventing the disease so that we may make a future free of HIV/AIDS a reality.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.23.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings released the following statement after introducing H.Con. Res. 96, Condemning Palestinian incitement of violence and reaffirming the special bond between Israel and the United States with Congressman Rob Woodall (R-GA). (See a copy of the legislation attached) “The current wave of violence in Israel deserves swift and clear condemnation, not just from the United States, but from the entire international community. Unfortunately, we have not seen this happen, even as attack after attack is carried out against innocent Israelis,” said Congressman Alcee L. Hastings. “Roughly 100 stabbings, shootings, and car-ramming attacks have been carried out since October. The Palestinian government and leaders around the world must unequivocally condemn these acts of terror. I am therefore pleased to introduce this bipartisan resolution with Congressman Rob Woodall, which calls on the entire international community to stand in unison against acts of terrorism in Israel and reaffirms our belief that any chance at lasting peace can only happen through peaceful, bilateral, discussions between Israel and the Palestinians.” “The American people share a very special bond with the people of Israel,” said Congressman Rob Woodall. “We have no stronger ally, and their strength is necessary not only for their own protection and success, but for freedom-loving people throughout the region and across the world. They face tremendous danger on a daily basis from those who deny their right to exist and seek to destroy their nation and heritage. Those carrying out recent attacks do not share the love of liberty that bonds the American and Israeli nations together. I am proud of this non-partisan effort to provide an opportunity for the House to unite against these evil acts, and I thank my friend Mr. Hastings for helping us get here.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.19.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement regarding National Hunger and Homelessness Awareness Week: “There are thousands of men, women, and children in our country that go without food or shelter every single day. In marking National Hunger and Homelessness Awareness Week, we must remind ourselves that there is much we can do to provide for homeless individuals across this nation. Those in our country who do not have a home or live in poverty deserve to be treated with dignity and respect. “As the Co-Founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Homelessness Caucus, I believe that eradicating homelessness in America must be a top priority for Congress and our country. We have made great progress towards this goal, but far too many people still go without the basic securities of food and shelter. “I will continue to do all that I can in Congress to work toward a world where no person has to experience hunger or homelessness. As a nation we must strengthen our resolve to fight to end homelessness once and for all.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.13.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the terrorist attacks in Paris, France: “Words cannot express how horrified I was to learn of this evening’s terrorist attacks in Paris. My thoughts and prayers are with all of the victims and their families. While many of the details are still yet unknown, I stand shoulder-to-shoulder in solidarity with the French people. These senseless acts of terrorism can never be understood, we must find strength in knowing that justice will ultimately prevail, and those responsible will be held accountable for their horrific and cowardly actions. Tonight, I offer my deepest sympathies to the people of France during this dark hour, and stand united with them in prayer.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.10.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking Veterans Day: “The men and women of the United States Armed Forces exemplify the very best of our nation. As we mark Veterans Day, I am keenly aware of the pressing needs of those returning from conflicts abroad. Many face a long road to recovery from physical injuries, while others continue to struggle with injuries that lay below the surface. “It is our duty as a nation to ensure that the men and women who selflessly serve our country receive the respect and support they so rightly deserve. This includes ensuring that our wounded warriors who suffer physical wounds, traumatic brain injury, or mental health illnesses such as PTSD receive the care and rehabilitation they need. Indeed, Florida has the second highest number of veterans in the United States, and this number continues to increase as our military personnel return home from war. We must work collaboratively to guarantee that our veterans maintain access to affordable housing and education, employment opportunities, healthcare and mental health services. “This Congress, I have proudly cosponsored 46 pieces of legislation designed to address veteran’s issues, ranging from increasing the amount of federal leave a disabled veteran can take without loss or reduction in pay, to providing grants to carry out research for the advancement of prosthetic clinical care for members of the Armed Forces and veterans who have undergone amputation. And, on April 17, 2015, I introduced H. Res. 211, a resolution recognizing America’s homeless veterans. As co-founder and co-chair of the Congressional Homelessness Caucus and the Representative of Florida’s 20th District, I will continue to prioritize these critical issues in Congress. “As we celebrate Veterans Day, let us honor those men and women who have served in the United States Armed Forces. Their courage and sacrifice have not only protected and advanced the freedoms of Americans, but peoples all around the world.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.04.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking the 20th anniversary of the assassination of Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin: “I pause today to honor the life of Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin. Prime Minister Rabin bravely risked everything in search of a long-lasting peace between Israelis and Palestinians, and his legacy of service to the Israeli people speaks for itself. “I am reminded that when Prime Minister Rabin was shot, he was leaving a rally for peace at the Kings of Israel Square. In his pocket were the lyrics to Shir Lashalom, meaning “Song for Peace." “Twenty years after his assassination, and under the shadow of a wave of terrorism currently striking at the people of Israel, let us come together in condemnation of violence and strive to realize Prime Minister Rabin’s vision for long-term peace. I stand with the people of Israel in remembrance of Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, a man who I was honored to call my friend.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.30.2015	Today, Congressman Hastings (D-FL) sent the below letter to Secretary of State John Kerry, urging him to continue prioritizing the processing of the Special Immigrant Visa applications. Please see below and attached a copy of the letter. Joining Hastings in signing the letter were Representatives (15): John Conyers, Jr., Jim McDermott, Zoe Lofgren, Earl Blumenauer, James P. McGovern, Michael M. Honda, Betty McCollum, Chris Van Hollen, Albio Sires, Peter Welch, David N. Cicilline, Lois Frankel, Ann McLane Kuster, Mark Takano, and Ted Lieu. October 30, 2015 The Honorable John Kerry Secretary U.S. Department of State 2201 C Street, NW Washington, DC 20520 Dear Secretary Kerry, We write to urge the Department of State to continue prioritizing the processing of Special Immigrant Visas (SIV) for Iraqi and Afghan nationals formerly employed by or on behalf of the United States government. These individuals were vital to the U.S. missions in Iraq and Afghanistan and it is our responsibility to bring them to safety within our borders. As you know, two temporary SIV programs exist for these individuals and their dependents. Approximately 14,657 visas had been issued to Iraqi nationals and 11,826 to Afghan nationals between the dates of their inceptions through the end of FY2014. As of October 6, 2015, an estimated 2,150 visas were still available to Afghan principal applicants and 1,850 available for Iraqi principal applicants. Those applying for SIVs have unfortunately found the process to be cumbersome, long, and complicated. Many of those lucky enough to be granted a visa waited for years for the process to be completed. For those whose applications are still pending, every day is still marred by uncertainty, fear, and fading hope. According to a recent Joint Department of State/Department of Homeland Security Report, approximately 15,000 SIV applications for Iraqi and Afghan applicants and their dependents remain pending, at various stages of the application process. While we understand the need to conduct appropriate security screenings on applicants, we remain cognizant that more must be done to process applications quickly and efficiently. We commend the steps taken by the Administration to reduce the amount of time required to apply and go through the SIV application process. Many anecdotal reports have highlighted abductions, attacks on, and even the murder of SIV applicants as they waited for approval for visas, highlighting the necessity for further improving the application process. President Obama’s administration, through the Department of State, recently announced that it would raise the threshold of refugees admitted into the United States next year. We applaud this decision and look forward to working with the administration to ensure that the United States does its part to take in refugees from around the world. At the same time, we must keep our commitments to the Iraqi and Afghan nationals who risked their lives in service to our country. We therefore urge you to allocate the necessary resources to quickly process pending SIV applications and to respond to future applications in a timely manner. We appreciate your prompt attention to our request and look forward to your reply. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress John Conyers, Jr. Member of Congress Jim McDermott Member of Congress Zoe Lofgren Member of Congress Earl Blumenauer Member of Congress James P. McGovern Member of Congress Michael M. Honda Member of Congress Betty McCollum Member of Congress Chris Van Hollen Member of Congress Albio Sires Member of Congress Peter Welch Member of Congress David N. Cicilline Member of Congress Lois Frankel Member of Congress Ann McLane Kuster Member of Congress Mark Takano Member of Congress Ted Lieu Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.29.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement after Congressman Paul Ryan was sworn in as the new Speaker of House of Representatives: “I join with my colleagues in saluting Speaker John Boehner as he steps down from the House of Representatives. Speaker Boehner is a true statesman who always put the institution of Congress first. Despite our differences, his graciousness was always apparent, and this institution was better because of it. “As Speaker Ryan takes the gavel, there are many issues that need to be addressed in America. Critically important and time-sensitive challenges face this body, and the new Speaker will need to bring Congress together to meet the needs of our country. I have no doubt that Speaker Ryan is capable of doing so, and though we may at times have different visions for America, I look forward to working with him to make real progress in addressing our nation’s infrastructure needs, creating jobs, improving wages, and reforming our immigration system. “I was pleased to hear Speaker Ryan’s call to return to regular order. For too long, the House of Representatives has skirted the rules, bypassing the legislative process in order to bring legislation to the floor quickly and without adequate time for review. I hope that Speaker Ryan follows through with this promise, and that the dysfunction gripping the House of Representatives comes to an end. “I offer Speaker Ryan and his family my heartfelt congratulations as he takes on his new role, and look forward to real progress in the days ahead.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.28.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement after receiving the National Association of Counties (NaCO) Alumni Award for his “steadfast commitment to the nation’s counties:” “My first and foremost responsibility as a Member of Congress is to represent my constituents. I am proud to partner with the local county governments that I represent in order to serve my district to the best of my ability. “Serving the people of the 20th district is an honor and privilege. I am deeply appreciative for the National Association of Counties and this award, and will continue to work to ensure that I am doing all that I can to advocate for our South Florida communities.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.28.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on House of Representatives reauthorizing the charter of the Export-Import Bank: “Last night, the House voted to re-open the Export-Import Bank. The Bank is an invaluable tool for American exporters and the Senate should pass this legislation right away. “Reauthorization of the Bank has been drawn out for months. While I am pleased that the House voted overwhelmingly and in a bipartisan manner to pass this legislation, it is shameful that such extreme partisanship on the part of House Republican leadership necessitated the use of a discharge petition. The Export-Import Bank operates at zero cost to the American taxpayer and supports hundreds of thousands of jobs, yet Republicans refused to bring it to the floor for a vote. The charter of the Bank should have never been allowed to lapse in the first place. “This manufactured-crisis is a perfect example of the partisanship that has gripped Washington for far too long. Allowing the Bank's charter to lapse only hurt American workers and put American businesses competing in foreign markets at a disadvantage. We need more jobs in our country, not less. I hope that this legislation reaches the President’s desk quickly so that we can put this charade behind us.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.26.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement marking the 50th Pastoral Anniversary of Reverend Griffin Davis of Hilltop Missionary Baptist Church in Riviera Beach, Florida. “Reverend Davis has always gone out of his way to help those in need in his community. For the past 50 years, he has acted as a beacon of good-will and served as a dependable figure whom the city of Riviera Beach and its residents can rely on. I am pleased to congratulate him on his 50th Pastoral Anniversary. “Each and every one of Rev. Davis’ efforts have reflected the sheer love and pride he holds for his fellow congregants. I am truly honored to join his family, friends, and everyone in the community in honoring him. We have all been touched by this remarkable man whose selfless hard work and amazing spirit knows no bounds. “I have had the privilege to see firsthand the selfless work that he has accomplished, and I wish him many more years of service to his ministry. I am proud to not only represent him in Congress, but also call him my close friend.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.15.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) send the following letter to President Obama supporting the use of Executive Branch powers to curb gun violence. (See below and attached a copy of the letter). October 15, 2015 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Obama: I write to applaud your recent call that Congress work with all due urgency to advance and pass meaningful gun control legislation. However, I unfortunately must share in your view that the Republican led Congress remains beholden to the gun lobby, most visibly so in its close association to the National Rifle Association (NRA). As frustrating and real as congressional and special interest roadblocks are to our common endeavor to enact sensible gun reform, we must not let this reality deter us from working to protect the American people from the epidemic of gun violence that has held our communities hostage for so many decades. Given the intensity of today’s gun violence epidemic, I believe that it must be addressed as fully and quickly as possible. To this end, I offer my support and encouragement as you and your staff seek out ways in which you may use Executive Branch powers under Article II of our Constitution to more fully protect our fellow citizens from gun violence. I would respectively make the following three suggestions as good starting points in curbing gun violence. One would hope that all involved in today’s gun legislation debate agree that we do all we can to ensure that guns stay out of the hands of criminals. One way of accomplishing this end would be to more fully clarify through Executive Order, which gun sellers are “engaged in the business” of selling guns under 18 USC 922(a)(1)(a). Today, unlicensed sellers are responsible for the sale of hundreds of thousands of guns per year. Indeed, the internet has hastened the ability of people to purchase guns from unlicensed dealers with one website accounting for nearly 250,000 such sales in one year. The combination of the Internet and advances in technology have also made it easier for people to manufacture their own guns. Today, people are able to buy unfinished receivers and convert them into operational weapons as the knowledge to do so is readily available online. Moreover, because records are not kept when people buy unfinished receivers, local law enforcement and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) cannot check with stores when such weapons are used to commit a crime. Compounding the difficulty is the fact that unfinished receivers do not bear any identifying marks such as a serial number. I therefore respectively ask that you issue an Executive Order defining these unfinished receivers as “firearms” thereby subjecting them to the regulations covering other guns including background checks. Finally, we must do more to protect those who find themselves suffering domestic abuse, whether they are abused by a spouse or someone else close to them. Indeed, those in unmarried relationships are just as vulnerable to domestic abuse stemming from gun violence as those who are married, and deserve the same statutory protections. Current law prohibits those convicted of misdemeanor crimes of domestic violence from possessing firearms. However, a crime is characterized as a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence under 18 USC 921(33)(A)(ii) only if the guilty party is a spouse, former spouse, shares a child or has cohabited with the victim, or if the person is “similarly situated to a spouse . . . of the victim.” The “similarly situated” language remains undefined and therefore leads to its uneven application. I would again respectively request that you issue an Executive Order clarifying that the “similarly situated” language under 18 USC 921(33)(A)(ii) has the same meaning as the term “intimate partner” enumerated in the Violence Against Women Act. While these proposals are not the only needed reforms to our nation’s gun laws, and no single measure has the ability to completely alleviate the epidemic of gun violence in our nation, these common sense measures are important first steps that can be taken immediately to help save lives. The time to take action to reduce the number of Americans killed and injured each passing day by guns is long overdue. I am deeply disappointed that Congress, beholden to a Republican majority that has for decades been paralyzed by the gun lobby and special interests, has been unable to perform its role in taking this meaningful action. So long as this remains the reality, I urge you to consider issuing these Executive Orders to stem the tide of senseless and preventable gun violence that currently plagues our nation. Thank you for your time and consideration on this matter. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.06.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement congratulating Bella’s Group for winning this year’s Angels in Adoption Award. Hastings nominated the group for the award, which is given annually by the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute’s (CCAI) Angels in Adoption Program: “I was pleased to nominate Bella’s Group for the 2015 Angels in Adoption Award. Isabella and Gabriella have shown great courage and maturity in forming this organization at such a young age, and I am moved by their dedication to providing for others. “At the ages of four and five Isabella and Gabriella formed Bella’s Group to meet other children being raised by grandparents. With the help of friends and neighbors, they began to sponsor free parties every year. As the group evolved, so did its mission. The need for food, clothing, school supplies, and housing became apparent, and Isabella and Gabriella began to include community resource organizations at their events in order to connect families to vital support networks. “Bella’s Group has worked to organize food drives, back to school backpack collections, shoe collections, Thanksgiving turkey drives, and toys at the holidays. Most recently, they endowed a scholarship at HANDY, Inc. for achieving kinship youth to further their education. They, and their grandparents, are always on hand as a resource for children across the community. I was so truly honored to present them with this year’s Angels in Adoption Award.” ABOUT: The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute’s (CCAI) Angels in Adoption Program honors individuals, couples, and organizations that have made extraordinary contributions on behalf of children in need of families. Since the program’s inception in 1999, almost 2,000 Angels have received this honor. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.05.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and members of the Broward County Congressional delegation released the following statement congratulating the Children’s Services Council (CSC) of Broward County on its selection for a $700,000 grant under the Performance Partnership Pilots Program (P3): “I am extremely proud of The Children’s Services Council of Broward County and the work they are doing for at-risk youth. CSC is vital to ensuring productive life outcomes for our children and this $700,000 grant from the Department of Education is the perfect way to support them in their efforts. The CSC’s P3 Program is an excellent vehicle to break down administrative and regulatory barriers to better serve the youth in our community,” said Congressman Hastings. The Children’s Services Council of Broward County serves over 150,000 children, and intends to utilize the P3 funding to support the development of a comprehensive program for at-risk youth that utilizes a tiered case management service approach. In February, Hastings was joined by Broward County Representatives Deutch, Wasserman Schultz, Frankel, and Wilson in sending a letter to Secretary of Education Arne Duncan in support of the grant award. “I’m thrilled that the U.S. Department of Education is awarding the Children Services Council of Broward County this first-of-its-kind grant to help our young people earn the skills and expertise they’ll need to succeed in higher education and our work force. This grant will provide important flexibility to allow the Children's Services Council and their partners at CareerSource, the Y, Hispanic Unity and Broward County Libraries to provide disengaged high school students the supports they need to succeed,” said Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz. "There is no better path to a vibrant future than to invest in our children," said Congresswoman Frankel. “The award of this $700,000 grant to the Children’s Services Council of Broward County is a testament to the terrific work this organization does every day,” said Congressman Deutch. “I am excited to see the Children’s Services Council put these federal dollars to work improving and enriching the lives of children throughout Broward County.” “I applaud the Department of Education for recognizing what an invaluable asset the Children’s Services Council of Broward County is to our community. This $700,000 grant will enhance CSC’s efforts to ignite in at-risk and disconnected youth a desire to succeed. As the founder of the 5000 Role Models of Excellence Project, I can appreciate what a blessing this award is. It is wonderful to have allies like the Children’s Services Council in the endeavor to create the best outcomes for our most vulnerable young people,” said Congresswoman Wilson. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.30.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings released the following statement on the Republican Continuing Resolution to fund the government through December 11, 2015: “Congress has become far too comfortable with the idea of waiting until the last moment to pass critical legislation, whether it is funding the government or raising the debt ceiling. Too often, we are bogged down by partisan issues that are only brought up to appease the extreme political agenda of a few in Congress. The debates of the last few weeks are no different. “It is unfathomable to me that we continue to entertain attacks on women’s health care in our country. Republicans continue to waste our time having these ridiculous debates. All the while, the critical needs of our country go unanswered. We shouldn’t be governing at the brink. “Today, the Republican-controlled House and Senate passed yet another Continuing Resolution that funds our government for only a few months. More than 150 of my Republican colleagues in the House of Representatives voted against the resolution and to shut down the government. This is shameful, and we need to get back to responsible governing.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.28.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and members of the Broward County Congressional Delegation sent the following letter to the Broward County Board of Commissioners marking the 100th Anniversary of Broward County, Florida. (Please see below and attached a copy of the letter.) September 25, 2015 Broward County Board of County Commissioners 115 S. Andrews Avenue Ft. Lauderdale, Florida 33301 Dear Broward County Board of County Commissioners: We write to extend our most sincere congratulations to Broward County on celebrating its 100th anniversary. It is truly an honor to represent such a diverse and unique county in the United States Congress, whose transformation and growth is very much a product of the industrial age. In the last century, Broward has become home to over 1.8 million people, where tens of thousands reside during the winter months, and millions more come to vacation. While the sun, sand, and sea have been here for millennia, the roads, railroads, and seaport are new additions that have transformed the area’s landscape. Once again, congratulations! We are excited to celebrate this momentous occasion and to highlight all that the “Sunshine State” has to offer to our nation and world. Sincerely, Bill Nelson Alcee L. Hastings U.S. Senator Member of Congress Mario Diaz-Balart Debbie Wasserman Schultz Member of Congress Member of Congress Ted Deutch Frederic S. Wilson Member of Congress Member of Congress Lois Frankel Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.25.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letter to President Obama urging him to establish a no-fly zone in Syria. This is the second letter Hastings has sent to the President calling for the establishment of a no-fly zone to protect Syria’s vulnerable civilians. (Please see below and attached a copy of the letter.) September 25, 2015 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama: I last wrote to you and then Ambassador Susan Rice regarding the ongoing crisis in Syria on May 28, 2013 at which time I noted the efficacy of establishing a no-fly zone in Syria. I continue to believe that doing so is in the best interest of the United States, our allies in the region, and the Syrian people. I therefore write to you today to renew this request. The humanitarian crisis detailed in my May 2013 letter has regrettably grown more critical in the intervening years. This crisis, in which millions of innocent Syrians find themselves today, demands our full attention and fervent commitment to creating a strategy that will bring an end to the deplorable conditions facing the Syrian people. When I wrote to you in 2013, 70,000 Syrians had been killed in the fighting that began in March of 2011. The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights now estimates that 330,000 people have died in the ongoing conflict. Furthermore, at the time of my 2013 letter, over 1.4 million refugees – three-quarters of whom were women and children – had fled the country to seek safe haven in Lebanon, Jordan, Turkey, Iraq, and Egypt. This number has since soared to 4 million. They have suffered incredible loss, witnessed untold atrocities, and experienced permanent trauma. Additionally, in May of 2013 the United Nations reported that 4.25 million Syrians were internally displaced, caught in the middle of the struggle between opposition forces and those loyal to President Bashar Al-Assad. Today, that number is 7.6 million. Finally, when I wrote to you in 2013, 6.8 million Syrians were in need of urgent assistance. Today, this number stands at 12.2 million people - over half of Syria’s population. These numbers are unlike any we have seen since the Second World War. These astoundingly tragic numbers represent Syrian mothers, fathers, brothers, sisters, lawyers, doctors and laborers who yearn for nothing more than a free and secure future for their loved ones. Indeed, allowing the current situation in Syria to continue is not only morally suspect, but also anathema to our long-term strategic interests. We know too well the results that come from a generation of growing up alienated and angry in refugee camps. Such a life leads to radicalization, revenge and continued destabilization. While I commend the Administration’s ongoing commitment to provide humanitarian assistance to the Syrian people, including non-lethal aid to opposition forces, President Assad remains in power. He has demonstrated to the world that he is above no brutal tactic if it will keep him in power. This includes the use of chemical weapons, indiscriminate missile strikes and the use of barrel bombs. According to the Syrian Network for Human Rights, indiscriminate barrel bomb attacks have killed nearly 14,000 people and are capable of obliterating entire neighborhoods. Indeed, in many areas, including Aleppo, Homs, Dara’a, Azaz, and around Damascus, the Assad regime has used its air force, as well as scud missile strikes to decimate entire population centers as part of a systematic effort to crush opposition forces and terrorize its own people. Human rights groups report that fighter jets and helicopters have targeted hospitals, bakeries, and residential buildings and have noted that the leading cause of death of Syrian civilians this year has been the indiscriminate use of aerial weapons. The Assad regime’s air superiority has allowed it to push back rebel advances and hamper their ability to maintain effective control over captured territory. Imposing a no-fly zone over Syria would help provide opposition forces with the cover necessary to establish governance in strategically important parts of the country and protect civilians. Such a no-fly zone would be defended by radar and patriot and sea based weapons systems, ensuring that American pilots face as little harm as possible. We must take steps to help put an end to the violence and bring about the political transition necessary for a democratic Syria. Enforcing a no-fly zone would send a strong message to the Assad regime and the world that the ongoing escalation of violence in Syria is unacceptable. As you are keenly aware, the situation in Syria is constantly changing. The recent deployment of Russian troops, military aircraft, and surface-to-air missile batteries in Latakia to ostensibly help the Assad regime fight the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) is of particular concern. Specifically, reports that Russia has sent Sukhoi Su-27 fighter jets and surface-to-air missiles to Syria are most troubling as such jets and weapons systems are only used to disrupt air power, a power ISIL clearly does not possess. Although these latest moves by Russia certainly complicate the establishment of a no-fly zone in Syria, we must not let them deter us from working diligently to ensure that such a zone is established and enforced. I encourage you, Mr. President, to highlight the implications of this development when you meet with President Putin next week, with the goal of finding a solution that allows both our countries to work in tandem to impose a no-fly zone in Syria, thereby protecting Syria’s most vulnerable citizens. Mr. President, the situation in Syria may be more complex than it was when I wrote to you on May 28, 2013, but the need for immediate and strong action remains just as necessary as it was then. With each passing day, the violence has grown more sectarian, militarized, and radicalized at the cost of innocent Syrian lives. As you carefully consider the options facing our nation and allies, I encourage you to support imposing a no-fly zone. Thank you for your consideration of this urgent matter. I respectfully ask to be kept informed as the Administration evaluates possible courses of action in Syria, and look forward to your response. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Cc: Ambassador Samantha Power, U.S. Permanent Representative to the United Nations Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.24.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement after Pope Francis' address to Congress: “I was deeply honored to host Archbishop Thomas Wenski of the Archdiocese of Miami at Pope Francis’ historic address to Congress this morning. The Pope’s message was a marvelous inspiration that should cause us all to reflect on the values that make our country great: inclusiveness, equality, progress, and enterprise in support of our common home. “In Congress, partisanship has become far too common. We should use the opportunity of the Pope’s historic visit to reaffirm our commitment to ending the cycle of extreme poverty, ending homelessness in America, preventing climate change, and protecting nature. We must also strive to keep our borders open to any who would come here in search of a better future. “We were reminded today of the importance of providing for future generations, and the golden rule of doing unto others as you would have them do to you. As Pope Francis said, America continues to be ‘a land of dreams; dreams which lead to action, to participation, to commitment; dreams which awaken what is deepest and truest in the life of a people.’ I couldn’t agree more.” Congressman Hastings with Archbishop Thomas Wenski of the Archdiocese of Miami Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.22.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in recognition of National Voter Registration Day: “As we recognize National Voter Registration Day, let us not forget darker days in our nation’s history when women and minorities were discouraged, often under the threat of violence, from registering to vote and casting their ballots for representatives of their choosing. “The importance of encouraging participation in our democratic process cannot be overstated. Indeed, for the first time in history it is predicted that individuals of color, unmarried women, and young Americans will make up over 50 percent of all of the ballots cast in the 2016 Presidential Election. While this phenomenon marks a significant step forward for representative government, too many young people and individuals of color do not participate in the electoral process. “May we mark this National Voter Registration Day with a renewed commitment to increasing the civic engagement of all Americans by strengthening efforts to register individuals to vote and encouraging lasting participation in elections.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.16.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement ahead of tonight’s meeting of the House Rules Committee to consider legislation that restricts women’s access to reproductive health care: “Tonight, the House Committee on Rules meets to consider legislation that would further restrict a woman’s ability to make her own health care decisions. It is outrageous that we are again considering partisan bills that impede access to much needed health services and attack a woman’s right to choose, even as we face a looming government shutdown. We should be concentrating on keeping the government funded, not on defunding health clinics across the country. “The continued efforts to defund Planned Parenthood would cut off reproductive and other health care services to millions of women. More than 2.6 million people visited Planned Parenthood in 2013, benefiting from critical services such as breast and cervical cancer screenings. But Republicans insist on eviscerating these services and are willing to shutdown the government to do it. “The House GOP needs to stop wasting time subjecting women in America to constant legislative harassment. Reproductive health decisions should be between a woman and her doctor, not the government, and I will continue to oppose these efforts.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.11.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement marking the 14th anniversary of September 11, 2001: “Today, we honor the nearly 3,000 lives that were tragically lost on September 11, 2001. The victims of this cowardly attack remain in my thoughts and prayers, as do their families and loved ones. “On this day 14 years ago, we watched in horror as the scale of the attacks on our way of life became apparent. In one of our nation’s darkest hours, we came together, united in defiance against the forces of religious extremism. “We continue to cherish the memories of our loved ones, and draw strength from the first responders, fire fighters, police officers, and everyday citizens that put themselves in harm’s way to save American lives. In particular, I would like to recognize the men and women of our nation’s military, law enforcement, and intelligence community who protect us at home and abroad. “I take this anniversary to not only remember those who we lost, but also to honor the countless men and women that shouldered those who could not stand on their own. Our way of life endures through these heroes and the everyday men and women that make America great. Together, we uplift our communities and show that the American spirit in unshakable.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.08.2015	Today, Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) introduced a joint resolution permitting the sitting President or his successors to use the armed forces of the United States, if necessary, to prevent Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons. (Please find attached a copy of the resolution) “On July 14, 2015, a Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) designed to ensure that Iran’s nuclear program is used solely for peaceful purposes was finalized. With history as our guide, any agreement with the Iranian government must be met with skepticism, and therefore, backed up with muscularity – my legislation provides this muscularity. “Indeed, the importance of an international framework that actually prohibits Iran from ever becoming a nuclear weapons state cannot be overstated. As Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission and the only American to have served as President of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe’s (OSCE PA) Parliamentary Assembly, as well as a former member of both the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and Committee on Foreign Affairs, I am acutely aware of the challenges in dealing with Iran’s nuclear program. “Iran’s pursuit of a nuclear weapon is a threat to the United States as well as our allies in the region, and its questionable sincerity in forgoing the procurement of such weapons has created legitimate cause for concern. It is my sincere hope that this resolution will provide the added hard power necessary to deter Iran from continued efforts to obtain nuclear weapons, including skirting compliance with the JCPOA, if implemented. I believe this legislation will send a clear message to the Iranian regime that the United States is willing to ensure that Iran never becomes a nuclear weapons state at any cost.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.29.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement marking the tenth anniversary of Hurricane Katrina: “Hurricane Katrina remains the most destructive and costly hurricane in United States history, claiming more than 1,800 lives and causing over $125 billion in damages. For many, life has still not returned to normal since Katrina made its way across the gulf coast. For those who lost loved ones and friends, life will never return to normal. “As the floodwaters receded, the scope of the damage from this storm became apparent. Entire neighborhoods were destroyed and an unprecedented clean up began. While many of the neighborhoods in Katrina’s path have made great strides in their recovery, other areas, such as the predominantly African American ninth-ward of New Orleans, have seen much slower progress. We must remember that there is still much more to be done. “We cannot stop these storms, but we can do more to forecast them. I strongly support the next-generation research and forecasting programs that will allow us to more accurately model storms based on facts and information, rather than projections. We are facing a looming gap in our forecasting ability. That is why I strong support fully funding the Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite-R series and the Joint-Polar Satellite Systems, which will undoubtedly save lives in the future. “Today, I give thanks to the first responders and all who worked to rescue survivors in the wake of Hurricane Katrina, and honor the lives of those who were lost because of this horrific storm.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.27.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement today in support of the Government of Serbia’s progress in reforming its government, and urging Prime Minister Aleksandar Vučić to continue to work to modernize the country’s laws: “I am pleased to acknowledge the recent progress made by the Government of Serbia and Prime Minister Aleksandar Vučić’s efforts to strengthen Serbia’s contribution to Balkan stability, including the significant agreement reached in four key areas with Kosovo just this week. “I strongly urge the Serbian government to continue its efforts to adopt reforms that uphold basic democratic principles, such as modernizing its legal system, respecting human rights, and protecting the rule of law. The State Department’s recent Human Rights Report has also called on Serbia to do more to address corruption, lack of transparency in the government, and independence of the judiciary. “I am particularly aware that Serbian criminal law – and Article 234 of the Serbian Criminal Code in particular – has been criticized by European Union (EU) representatives and other experts for its abuse by Serbian authorities. “As the government of Serbia seeks to advance its bilateral relationship with the United States, and as it looks to it EU accession plan, it must prioritize the continuation of reform in its government. I urge Serbia to continue in these efforts, which could include the full repeal of Article 234. At the same time, I also hope for more vigorous efforts leading to effective prosecution of truly outstanding cases like the murder of the three American-citizen Bytyqi brothers in 1999. “As the ranking Democrat on the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe and the former president of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization for Security and Cooperation (OSCE) in Europe, I have spent my career advocating for human rights, freedom, rule of law, and democracy throughout the world, especially in the Balkans. I am pleased by the progress Serbia and the United States have made in our bilateral relationship, and will continue to work to support the Serbian government as they make efforts to reform.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.27.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement regarding the shooting in Franklin County, Virginia: “Yesterday, our nation was again shocked by a cowardly act of murder. The fact that this horrific crime was committed live on television, and focused on two bright young people makes it even harder to bear. My heart is broken for the families of Adam Ward and Alison Parker, and I grieve with the people of Virginia, and our entire nation, for their loss. “I also send my thoughts and prayers to Vicki Gardner and her family with the hopes that she makes a full and speedy recovery. “We have a problem in our country that there is no denying. Gun violence is a scourge on communities across America. Yesterday’s shooting in Moneta, VA is yet another reminder that we need to have a very serious conversation. “Our policies on guns are no longer driven by common sense and reason, but instead by fierce ideologues. The idea that the Second Amendment guarantees unlimited and unfettered access to all guns, all of the time, is ludicrous. We can’t do everything to stop gun violence, but we have a moral responsibility to act to curb it, and we must do it now.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as a Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chair of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.26.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement marking the 95th anniversary of the adoption of the 19th Amendment, which extended voting rights to women: “As we celebrate the 95th anniversary of the adoption of the 19th Amendment, which guaranteed that no person in the United States be denied the right to vote on account of sex, we must also use this occasion to recognize the fact that much work still remains. “While women now constitute nearly half of the workforce and serve in high positions in both government and private industry, they are still paid on average only 78 cents for every dollar paid to men. Not only is this wage gap unacceptable, it hurts women and American families nationwide. “The work of America’s suffragettes took courage, vision and dedication. I remain steadfast in my commitment to do all that I can to expand economic opportunity and security for women and their families – by working to ensure equal pay for equal work, providing paid sick days, encouraging paid family leave, and expanding affordable child care. “In commemoration of Women’s Equality Day, lets us rededicate ourselves to America’s suffragettes and their supporters, knowing that when women succeed, America succeeds.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.19.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the passing of former Congressman and founding member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) Louis Stokes: “Congressman Stokes was a true public servant, who for more than 30 years represented the people of Ohio in the halls of Congress. I was truly privileged to have known him as both a friend and colleague, and was deeply saddened to hear of his passing. “Lou was a trailblazer. He was the first African American elected to Congress from Ohio, the first African American to serve on the House Appropriations Committee, and a founding member of the Congressional Black Caucus. “In Congress, he led the charge for health equity in minority communities across the nation, and worked to improve access to health care and services for veterans. He inspired us by breaking down barriers, served with distinction, and led by example. His life’s work has undoubtedly left its mark on our country, impacting the lives of countless Americans. “My thoughts and prayers go out to his wife Jay, his children, his family, and the people of Ohio during this difficult time.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.18.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement marking the 25th anniversary of the signing of the Ryan White CARE Act: “In observance of the 25th anniversary of the Ryan White CARE Act, we remember the program’s courageous young namesake and 25 years of federally funded HIV/AIDS treatment, prevention, and research programs. Ryan White was a young teen when he was infected with HIV after a blood transfusion he received to treat his hemophilia. Although Ryan passed away a few short years later, his memory lives on in the tremendous HIV/AIDS awareness advocacy efforts sparked by his courageous battle. “The Ryan White Program fills gaps in health care coverage not covered by other funding sources and provides resources for individuals living with HIV/AIDS, who lack the financial resources to get the care they need. “While great strides have been made in developing important HIV/AIDS drugs and implementing prevention initiatives, much work remains. The Center for Disease Control (CDC) estimates that more than 1.2 million individuals in the United States are living with HIV. Nearly one in eight are unaware of their infection. It is critically important that we ensure that the Ryan White Program has the resources necessary to increase access to testing, while also continuing to treat and provide care to those in need, even in the face of budget shortfalls. “As a Member of Congress, I will continue to do all that I can to address the needs of individuals and communities impacted by the HIV/AIDS virus, and to make certain that this vital program continues to receive Congressional support. On this important anniversary let us recognize the nameless health care workers, volunteers, community leaders, advocates, and those individuals affected by HIV/AIDS for all that they do in the fight to create an AIDS-free generation.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.16.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement after the passing of Dr. Julian Bond, co-founder of the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) and former Chairman of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP): “It is with extreme sadness that I learned of the passing of Dr. Julian Bond. Julian was at the forefront of the civil rights movement in our country and stood as an unwavering force for justice. His courage in the face of racial intolerance undoubtedly changed the fate of our nation. “Together with some of the great civil rights icons of our lifetimes, his lifelong activism had immeasurable impacts on the lives of millions. He was a champion for equal rights, an educator, and a mentor for all who believed in the cause of equality. But more than that, he was an inspiration, and his legacy speaks for itself. “I join with so many around the nation in mourning his loss. My thoughts and prayers are with his wife Pamela and his children during this time of great sadness.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.14.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement marking the 80th anniversary of the signing of the Social Security Act into law: “For 80 years, Social Security has provided Americans with peace of mind. Hardworking men and women contribute to Social Security every paycheck, knowing that their earned benefits will be there for them when they need them. “Today, nearly 60 million Americans, including over 4.2 million Floridians, depend on the monthly retirement, survivor, and disability benefits that they receive from their Social Security. “As we celebrate 80 years of Social Security, we must focus on keeping the program strong for the future. It is the government’s responsibility to ensure that the promise of Social Security is kept, and that the money invested into the system is repaid in full, down to the penny. “Unfortunately, Social Security remains a frequent target of Republican attempts to end the program as we know it. I continue to oppose misguided efforts to privatize the system or to raise the current retirement age. As a Member of Congress, I will do all that I can to ensure that Social Security is there for those who have paid into the system, as well as the next generation of beneficiaries.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation.
08.13.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) announced that he will oppose the Iran deal when it comes before the House of Representatives for a vote. Hastings announced his decision in an op-ed published in the Palm Beach Post. A copy of the op-ed is included below: “When the House of Representatives reconvenes in September, one of our first priorities will be to address the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) to curb Iran’s nuclear program. “After careful review, I have decided that I cannot support this deal. “The goal of the recently concluded negotiations was to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. The negotiators worked diligently, but in the end, the JCPOA allows Iran to remain a nuclear threshold state while simultaneously reaping the benefits of relief from international sanctions. “Under the JCPOA, Iran is limited to approximately 6,100 first-generation IR-1 centrifuges for a period of 10-15 years. However, after this time passes, Iran will again have the ability to pursue its nuclear program with more advanced centrifuges. Iran simply needs to be patient and it will once again have the ability to enrich uranium. “Just last month, the U.N. Security Council agreed to Resolution 2231, endorsing the JCPOA. Among other things, the resolution lifts the ban on conventional arms sales to Iran after five years, and gives Iran the authority to restart its nuclear-capable ballistic missile development program within eight years. This poses a threat to the U.S. and to our allies. “These provisions, coupled with a mere delay of Iran’s nuclear program, will give other regional powers a clear window of opportunity to strengthen or create their own weapons programs. As conventional weapons shipments to Iran resume, its neighbors will feel obligated to bolster their own security. “All the while, billions of dollars will be injected into the Iranian economy as sanctions are lifted. Some portion of this money is likely to be directed toward state-sponsored terrorist groups, such as the Iranian Revolutionary Guard, Hezbollah, Houthi and Hamas. “We must maintain a strong sanctions regime — to do otherwise is to give up our leverage. Sanctions are what brought Iran to the table, and they depend on large-scale international cooperation and compliance. “Companies from around the world have started lining up to invest in Iran. Should sanctions need to be re-imposed, it is not clear whether investment contracts implemented in the meantime would be voided. Indeed, many nations may no longer feel bound to U.S. sanctions once U.N. and EU-based sanctions are eased. “The provisions of the agreement that allow sanctions to “snap back” are of particular concern. This process could take well over two months and is limited to “significant” violations of the deal (the JCPOA fails to define what qualifies as significant). Iran could undermine the agreement in ways that would be nearly impossible to stop. “What’s more troubling, the agreement imposes a process that can take up to 24 days before inspectors gain access to any undeclared nuclear sites discovered in the future. This delay could provide Iran with substantial opportunity to hide any missile or nuclear activity. “Earlier this month, I sent a letter to President Barack Obama urging him to appoint a high-ranking military official to oversee the implementation of the deal, should it enter into force. Iran needs to understand that our commitment to ensuring compliance with this deal would be unwavering. “I will also introduce legislation on Sept. 8 that authorizes the sitting president or his successors to use military force to prevent Iran from becoming a nuclear weapons state. Iran’s sincerity in forgoing the procurement of a nuclear weapon makes these steps, in my opinion, an absolute necessity — regardless of how Congress votes.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings represents Florida’s 20th district, and serves as a Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida delegation. ###
08.07.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) was joined by Reps. Ted Deutch (D-FL), Patrick Murphy (D-FL), and Lois Frankel (D-FL) in sending a letter to Christina Daly, Secretary of the Florida Department of Juvenile Justice, expressing concern over mismanagement at the Palm Beach Juvenile Correctional Facility (PBJCF), and urging her to suspend operations at the facility pending the outcome of the most recent investigation. (Please find a copy of the letter below and attached): August 7, 2015 Christina K. Daly Secretary Florida Department of Juvenile Justice 2737 Centerview Drive Tallahassee, Florida 32399 Dear Secretary Daly: We write regarding the allegations of violence, substandard conditions, and mismanagement at the Palm Beach Juvenile Correctional Facility (PBJCF). We are disturbed by recent reports that outline a troubling trend of violent altercations at PBJCF. Over the past year alone, there have been numerous documented acts of violence occurring in the facility, including a recent altercation that left a teenager hospitalized with a broken jaw. Equally alarming are the reports of staff members taking part in misconduct – including two former staff members now facing child neglect charges after they allegedly organized a fight between two juveniles being held at the facility. In addition to the specter of violence that many juveniles seem to face at this facility, there have also been reports these youths face substandard living conditions. In a recent visit to the facility by Palm Beach County Mayor Shelley Vana, she observed insufficient utilities and meal options. The safety and wellbeing of the youths housed in this facility should be paramount, and reports that they live in substandard conditions and that their safety is in jeopardy must be fully investigated. Many of these issues are alleged to stem from the mismanagement of PBJCF by its operator - Youth Services International (YSI). Questions surrounding YSI’s competence to manage youth facilities statewide are not new. In 2014, the Florida Department of Juvenile Justice (DJJ) canceled the company’s contract to run the Santa Rosa Substance Abuse Treatment Center following YSI’s failure to correct safety and security issues that put the welfare of the youths at the facility in danger. While we are encouraged by your recent request to have the Florida Department of Law Enforcement (FDLE), in cooperation with DJJ, investigate the conditions at PBJCF, this marks the second investigation of this facility by state officials in as many years. In light of the continued reports of violence and substandard conditions at PBJCF, as well as YSI’s history of mismanagement, we urge you to suspend the operation of this facility pending the outcome of this most recent investigation. Doing so will ensure the safety and wellbeing of the juveniles being housed at the facility. Additionally, we ask that a review of YSI’s competency and ability to manage this, and other juvenile detention facilities be completed without delay. Thank you for your time and consideration. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Ted Deutch Member of Congress Patrick E. Murphy Member of Congress Lois Frankel Member of Congress Cc: Governor Rick Scott Shelley Vana, Mayor, Palm Beach County Richard L. Sweringen, Commissioner, Florida Department of Law Enforcement Dave Aronberg, State Attorney, 15th Judicial Circuit Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.07.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in conjunction with the National Black Chamber of Commerce’s 2015 Convention being held August 5-8th in Hollywood, Florida: “Pollution is a problem that disproportionately affects minorities in our country. According to the NACCP Environmental and Climate Justice Program, 68 percent of African Americans live within 30 miles of a power plant. This means that black communities across the country are more vulnerable to exposure from power plant emissions and carbon pollution. “Our country is taking steps to significantly reduce the amount of air pollution emitted every day. Doing so will reduce illnesses like asthma and will keep our kids from getting sick. It’s shameful that so many industries are willing to put profits over people and oppose these efforts. “The National Black Chamber of Commerce should take a firm stand against the misinformation being spread by these industries. I believe that we should all be on the side of families, not industry polluters. I urge the NBCC to cut ties with these groups immediately.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.06.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the 50th anniversary of the Voting Rights Act of 1965: “The Voting Rights Act stands as one of the most pivotal civil rights victories in our nation’s history. When the legislation was signed into law 50 years ago, it enshrined the principle of equality into our voting system. Regrettably, our country has slid backwards in the fight for voting rights. We mark today’s anniversary knowing that the struggles of the past are again being fought today. “I remain a vehement critic of the Supreme Court decision in Shelby County v. Holder, which gutted a key part of the Voting Rights Act. In recent years, nearly two dozen states have enacted new restrictions that make it harder for Americans to vote. These laws have left millions of people disenfranchised. “I have said again and again: we should be making it easier to vote in this country, not harder. It is up to Congress to update and reinstate the Voting Rights Act, and Democrats have offered common sense, compromise legislation to do just that. Unfortunately, just as they have done to millions of voters, Republicans have stood in the way of these efforts. “The opportunity to participate in our democratic process is a fundamental right of all Americans. As we mark today’s anniversary of the signing of the Voting Rights Act, I will continue to advocate for reforms that benefit – not persecute – the American voter.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.30.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the 50th anniversary of the signing of Medicare and Medicaid: “When the Medicare and Medicaid programs were signed into law 50 years ago today, Americans were given a new safety-net for affordable health care. “In the years since, Medicare and Medicaid have proven to be resounding stories of success. Today, 55 million Americans receive Medicare benefits and 69 million receive health care through Medicaid, including one in three children. “As we mark this anniversary, I am reminded that Democratic efforts to expand and strengthen these programs have been consistently blocked by Republicans in Congress and by states across America. Nearly two dozen states have refused to expand the Medicaid program, leaving millions without coverage. It is outrageous that Florida has refused to expand Medicaid – leaving over 800,000 low-income Floridians without health care. “Over the past 50 years, few programs have changed the lives of so many Americans. I remain committed to doing all that I can to further strengthen and protect Medicare and Medicaid.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.29.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), Co-Founder and Co-Chairman of the Congressional Homelessness Caucus, hosted a briefing with Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), and the National Coalition of the Homeless. The briefing addressed the importance of providing unhoused families with support to address trauma and how trauma-informed care can be an effective model in helping families heal, while combating homelessness. Hastings made the following statement at the briefing: “Homelessness is an epidemic that I am committed to fighting. There are so many facets to homelessness. For those who have experienced trauma, either as a cause of or result of their being homeless, the need for receiving trauma informed care is critical. “Ninety three percent of mothers who experience homelessness have a history of trauma, including physical and sexual abuse. This trauma has impacted their housing stability, not to mention their children, who often struggle with physical, emotional, and developmental issues. “There is such a strong correlation between experienced trauma and the housing instability of families in need. As a result of this correlation, trauma informed care serves are an effective model that emphasizes understanding, support, and healthy recovery. These specialized practices should be utilized by homelessness and housing programs to provide an environment that supports a pathway to healing and stability.” Panelists at the briefing included: Cheryl Sharp, Senior Advisor for Trauma-Informed Services at the National Council for Behavioral Health; Barbara Anderson, Executive Director of Haven House Services in Indiana; Leah Harris, Trauma Informed Care Specialist with the National Association for State Mental Health Program Directors; Dr. Jennifer Perlman, Coordinator of Trauma Informed Care at the Colorado Coalition for the Homeless; and Dr. Carmela DeCandia, Director of Child and Family Initiatives in Massachusetts. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.28.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letter to President Barack Obama urging him to appoint a high ranking military official to oversee the implementation of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action curtailing Iran’s nuclear capabilities, should this agreement be entered into force. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter) July 28, 2015 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: I write to call upon you to appoint a high ranking military official to oversee the implementation of each aspect of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action negotiated between the P5+1 and Iran, regarding nuclear capabilities, should this agreement enter into force. Iran must understand that both America and the international community intend to ensure compliance at any cost. The appointment of a high-ranking and respected military official to work in consultation with the Department of State, the National Security Council, and the Department of Energy as the various elements of this deal are put into practice will demonstrate our unwavering commitment to guaranteeing that Iran never becomes a nuclear weapons state. Thank you for your time and consideration of this request. I look forward to your prompt response. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.23.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement expressing his support as an original co-sponsor of The Equality Act, legislation that would prohibit discrimination against lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) individuals in public accommodations, housing, employment, and other critically important areas of daily life: “I am proud to be an original co-sponsor of legislation introduced today by Representative David Cicilline (D-RI), that seeks to end discrimination against LGBT Americans. While the Supreme Court’s decision in Obergefell v. Hodges was indeed a monumental step forward in the battle for basic human rights for all individuals, discrimination against LGBT individuals remains legal in most states. “Across our nation, LGBT Americans are faced with the possibility of losing their job, being forced out of their home, denied a loan, or refused services simply because they identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender. This prejudice is unacceptable and has no place in democratic society. “The Equality Act, supported by over 140 Members of Congress, will ensure that all LGBT Americans are afforded the most basic of human rights no matter where they live, work, or go to school. “Throughout my tenure in Congress, I have been a proud leader in the fight to uphold and strengthen the rights of LGBT individuals. It is our responsibility to ensure that our laws protect the rights of all of our citizens, regardless of who they love. This legislation will bring us one step closer to achieving this important goal.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.14.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in response to the Obama Administration’s announcement that a comprehensive agreement has been reached with Iran over its nuclear capabilities: “I commend the Administration and other government officials in the P5+1 who have worked diligently over the course of the negotiations, and look forward to reviewing this deal in its entirety to make certain that it will unquestionably block all pathways Iran may use to acquire nuclear weapons. “Now that the P5+1 has reached a deal with Iran, it is time for Congress to meticulously and carefully review this agreement to ensure that it will, in fact, prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. “Iran’s engagement in state sponsored terrorism and its history of deception at the negotiating table, give me reason to question any provision of this agreement that may allow Iran to continue on a path toward nuclear weaponization. In previous statements, I have outlined the necessary criteria for an acceptable deal: Iran must disclose its previous weaponization efforts and dismantle its nuclear infrastructure; inspectors must be permitted unfettered access to any and all sites to ensure ongoing compliance with the deal; sanctions must be lifted gradually as Iran demonstrates that it is meeting its obligations; and finally, Iran’s nuclear capabilities must be completely restricted until it proves it no longer seeks a nuclear weapon. “I intend to measure this agreement against these principles, and after review I will have further comment.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.06.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the negotiations surrounding a nuclear accord with Iran: “As I have stated on numerous occasions, I strongly believe that no deal is better than a bad deal that fails to strip the Iranian regime of any and all pathways to a nuclear weapon. “In addition to dismantling its nuclear infrastructure, the agreement that emerges must also allow inspectors unfettered access to inspect sites including military facilities, and require the full disclosure of Iran’s prior weaponization efforts. Finally, further sanctions should only be lifted after Iran has demonstrated compliance with the agreed upon terms.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.30.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in response to the weeklong extension of nuclear negotiations between the P5+1 and Iran: “Today we learned that negotiations aimed at dismantling large portions of Iran’s nuclear infrastructure have been extended, yet again, to July 7, 2015. While I applaud the efforts of the President, Secretary of State Kerry, and our partners in the P5+1, I am deeply concerned by news that Ayatollah Ali Khameni - the arbiter of public matters in Iran - has demanded that nearly all sanctions be lifted before Tehran has dismantled portions of its nuclear infrastructure and before international investigators confirm that Iran is on track to meet its obligations. I am even more alarmed that Ayatollah Khamenei has unequivocally rejected any freeze on Iran’s nuclear enrichment and has refused to agree to allow inspections of Iranian military sites. “During the past eighteen months of negotiations, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) reported that Iran’s stockpile of nuclear fuel has increased by approximately 20 percent. We must not allow negotiation extensions to permit the continuation of this enrichment or Tehran’s support of international terrorism. Sanctions relief unquestionably supports Iran’s ability to fund such organizations and any agreement must guarantee that sanctions in place now are lifted slowly and deliberatively. “At the end of the day, an acceptable deal will be one that guarantees that any Iranian pathway to a nuclear weapon is completely eliminated. It is my sincere hope that the current negotiations will result in a strong deal that does just that. In the event that a final agreement is reached which fails to do so, I will stand with my colleagues in Congress to make certain that it is blocked.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.26.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the U.S. Supreme Court’s ruling extending the right to marry to same-sex couples nationwide: “Today’s Supreme Court ruling in Obergefell v. Hodges​ is a momentous step forward in the fight for equality. I join the entire LGBT community, along with their friends and family, in celebrating this historic day. For far too long, same-sex couples have been forced to suffer discrimination and prejudice simply because of who they love. The Court’s decision confirms what the majority of Americans already believe to be true – that same-sex couples deserve the same access to the security and dignity that come along with the institution of marriage. “It is our responsibility to ensure that that our laws protect the rights of all of our citizens, regardless of their gender identity or sexual orientation. While today’s decision is indeed a significant victory, we must ensure that our nation as a whole will continue to work to implement comprehensive non-discrimination protections that recognize the equal rights of all Americans at the federal, state, and local levels of government. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.25.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the Supreme Court’s decision in King v. Burwell: “Today, for the second time in three years, the United States Supreme Court has upheld the constitutionality of the Affordable Care Act. This decision guarantees that eligible Americans, regardless of what state they reside in, will continue to have access to tax credits for affordable, quality health coverage. “The Affordable Care Act is working – the number of uninsured is declining, growth in health care prices is at historic lows, and the quality of health care is improving. Today’s decision ensures that this law will not be derailed, but will continue to benefit hard working Americans gain life-saving health care. “The Affordable Care Act is here to stay. I hope that now, after 60 failed attempts by Republicans to repeal the law and two decisions from the highest court in the land upholding it, these frivolous efforts to dismantle access to affordable health care will stop, and that we can begin working together to ensure that the law continues to work for the American people.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as a Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chair of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.25.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), in conjunction with Representatives Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), John Lewis (D-GA), Lois Frankel (D-FL), Frederica Wilson (D-FL), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Nita Lowey (D-NY), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Lee Zeldin (R-NY) and Mia Love (R-UT), hosted a breakfast for Black and Jewish Members of Congress. The purpose of this breakfast was to reflect on the shared experiences of Black and Jewish Americans, and to make certain that these communities continue to work collaboratively to eliminate racism and anti-Semitism both abroad and here at home: “I was delighted to be joined by so many of my colleagues in Congress and leaders in both the Black and Jewish community this morning for my Annual Black and Jewish Members of Congress Breakfast,” said Congressman Alcee L. Hastings. “The presentations and discussions that took place today confirmed what we know to be true – that what unites us is far greater than what divides us. We must continue to work across our communities to eliminate hatred and bigotry from our nation, and indeed the entire world.” Also attending the breakfast was Rabbi Marc Schneier, Founder and President of the Foundation for Ethnic Understanding, as well as Rabbi Ari Sunshine of B’nai Shalom Congregation, Reverend Robyn E. Franklin-Vaughn of the Howard University School of Divinity, and student leaders Henry Bowe, Jr. and Maya Bornstein from Operation Understanding D.C. Following Congressman Hastings’ opening remarks, blessings were offered by Rabbi Sunshine and Reverend Franklin-Vaughn, who also shared brief words about their work in engaging and uniting the Black and Jewish communities. Featured speaker Rabbi Schneier stated “The gathering this morning, celebrating the historic and ongoing Black-Jewish alliance, reminded us that a people who fight for their own right are only as honorable as when they fight for the rights of all people.” The 2015 Black and Jewish Members of Congress Breakfast “This breakfast is an opportunity to continue strengthening the bonds of the Black and Jewish communities who have, for so long, worked together to promote social justice and overcome the common threat of bigotry,” said Congresswoman Lois Frankel. Congressman Eliot Engel said, “There has always been a special bond between the Jewish and black communities, as both peoples have had to overcome a tremendous amount of discrimination and hatred. As the horrific events in Charleston last week have shown us, that discrimination and hatred is still alive and well in the hearts of an ignorant few, which is why this breakfast takes on an extra special significance today. We come here in the spirit of cooperation and understanding, standing together against the forces of oppression in the fight for equality and social justice. I cannot think of a better cause to stand for. I am delighted to be able to participate in this important breakfast, and I thank Congressman Hastings for hosting.” I am thrilled to cohost the breakfast again to celebrate our communities’ shared values and commitment to action. Earlier this year, I was honored to participate in the commemoration of the historic march on Selma, which strengthened my resolve to work together to pursue the causes that we are still fighting for: equal access to justice, and voting rights for every single citizen of this nation. As we continue to reel from the horror and tragedy in South Carolina, it is crucial that we continue to work together to combat justice and intolerance,” said Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz. Congresswoman Frederica Wilson stated, “The parallels between racism and antisemitism are undeniable and have served to strengthen the bond between the African-American and Jewish communities,” said Congresswoman Frederica S. Wilson. “This history also has helped us forge an enduring commitment to work together to combat social injustice and all efforts to deny any group, regardless of race, creed or ethnicity, of their equal rights.” “I am humbled to honor the partnership of Jewish Americans and African Americans with this breakfast. Our Jewish brothers and sisters were there with African Americans as we marched for voting rights. They supported the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, the NAACP, and the Urban League. Jewish Americans made up 50 percent of the civil rights attorneys in the South during the 1960s. Together we have fought for justice, and together we will continue to walk hand-in-hand as we create what Martin Luther King, Jr. calls the “Beloved Community,” asserted Congressman John Lewis. Congresswoman Nita Lowey stated, “The act of violence and hate in Charleston last week is an affront to us all - just as the anti-Semitic attack in Paris earlier this year brought grief and heartache far beyond France and the Jewish community. That’s why our two communities must stand resolutely together and remember that just as our interests are intertwined, so too are our destinies. By working together, we can leave a better world for generations to come.” Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer addresses Members of Congress at the breakfast Student leaders from Operation Understanding D.C. (OUDC) gave remarks regarding their experiences in the program, and spoke eloquently about the need to instill in our youth a commitment to ending racism and prejudice in all of its forms. OUDC Program Director Avi Edelman remarked “It is only through engagement with our history, the pleasant and the painful, that the young can become the shapers of its next course, and the Black and Jewish champions assembled today affirmed that the mantle being passed to the next generationhas an unshakable foundation.” Members In Attendance (33): Reps. Karen Bass (CA), Joyce Beatty (OH), Xavier Becerra (CA), Corrine Brown (FL), Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA), David N. Cicilline (RI), Steve Cohen (TN), John Conyers, Jr. (MI), Joseph Crowley (NY), Susan Davis (CA), Theodore Deutch (FL), Keith Ellison (MI), Eliot Engel (NY), Chaka Fattah (PA), Lois Frankel (FL), Al Green (TX), Steny Hoyer (MD), Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX), Hank Johnson (GA), Robin Kelly (IL), Brenda Lawrence (MI), Barbara Lee (CA), Sander Levin (MI), Alan Lowenthal (CA), Nita Lowey (NY), Gregory W. Meeks (NY), Jerold Nadler (NY), Nancy Pelosi (CA), Charles Rangel (NY), Terri A. Sewell (AL), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL), and Frederica Wilson (FL). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.20.2015	Congressman Alcee Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in observance of World Refugee Day: “Each June 20th we recognize World Refugee Day, a day on which we reflect on the importance of working to promote democracy and freedom around the world, while rededicating our efforts to do all that we can to offer protection to those who have been forcibly displaced from their homes. “The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) estimates that there are currently over 50 million refugees worldwide, the highest number since World War II. Not a day goes by where we are not confronted with news articles and images of individuals forced to flee their native lands to escape religious persecution, brutal human rights abuses, and civil war. Sadly, these brave people are too often met with nearly insurmountable challenges as they seek protection and a better life outside of their homeland. Today, millions of Syrians are both internally displaced and have sought refuge in neighboring countries where they face enormous hurdles to gaining asylum, and as the conflict continues this alarming statistic will undoubtedly continue to grow in size. “Throughout my tenure in Congress, I have remained at the forefront of this issue, traveling the globe to visit refugee camps and working with my colleagues to do all that I can to ensure that the United States takes steps to protect refuges around the world and here at home. On this Refugee Day, I call on the international community to redouble our efforts to improve the lives of displaced persons and to take more collaborative steps to work to alleviate suffering, violence and persecution worldwide.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.18.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (FL-20) made the following statement on the tragic shooting at Emanuel A.M.E Church in Charleston, South Carolina: “Words cannot express the sorrow that I feel for the families and friends who lost loved ones in the horrific shooting at Emanuel A.M.E Church. As a member of the African Methodist Episcopal Church, I feel a deep personal loss, and my thoughts and prayers are with the Emanuel A.M.E congregation, and the entire Charleston community during this unimaginably painful time. “Emanuel A.M.E Church has served as a pillar of peace, acceptance and perseverance against racial inequity and discrimination in Charleston since the 19th century, and has a storied history of fighting for the civil and human rights of all individuals. This senseless act of violence at this historic place of worship is truly despicable, and certainly can never be understood. “It sickens me that even in the face of atrocities such as this, powerful organizations (the NRA) cannot bring themselves to recognize the toll that the epidemic of gun violence is having on our country, which is outrageous. “I offer my deepest sympathies to the people of Charleston during this dark hour and stand united with them in prayer.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.11.2015	Today, Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Jeff Denham (R-CA), co-chairs of the Congressional Pollinator Protection Caucus, introduced the Highways Bettering the Economy and Environment Act, known as the Highways BEE Act. “As Co-Founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Pollinator Protection Caucus, I am honored to once again introduce the Highways BEE Act,” Congressman Hastings said. “Through already existing authorities and funding sources, this bill will encourage the planting and cultivation of pollinator habitats and vegetation along America’s highways. As recent data shows, pollinator populations, specifically honey bees, are suffering staggering population losses. There is much work left to be done in understanding the causes of this crisis and to begin the process of solving the problem – by strengthening pollinator vegetation and habitats along our roadways, this legislation is an important step in achieving that goal.” “The Highways BEE Act will help our pollinators, which are crucial to the strength of our communities and success of our agricultural industry, stay healthy and productive,” Congressman Denham said. “Allowing highway and freeway medians to bloom and flower naturally is a simple solution to provide much-needed aid to the birds, bats, bees and butterflies that pollinate our food.” “ASLA strongly commends Representatives Alcee Hastings and Jeff Denham for their work in developing a bipartisan bill that includes landscape architecture principles and practices to improve conditions for America’s pollinators,” said Nancy Somerville, Hon. ASLA, executive vice president and CEO of the American Society of Landscape Architects. ”Today’s introduction of the Highways BEE Act will allow America’s landscape architects to restore and preserve natural ecosystems on highway rights-of-way while helping bolster the populations of native pollinating species.” Full text of the bill is available here. ###
06.01.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in recognition of LGBT Pride Month: “Each June, we celebrate LGBT Pride Month, a time dedicated to recognizing the remarkable progress made toward achieving equality for all, while also reflecting on the work that remains. “It is fitting that this LGBT Pride Month, the Supreme Court is also expected to issue a ruling in Obergefell v. Hodges​, a case that could determine whether same-sex couples across the country may legally marry. It is my deepest hope that the Court will extend the right to marry to all individuals who desire to express their love and commitment to one another in this way. “True democratic prosperity can be achieved only through the enhancement of an inclusive environment in which all citizens of our country are given full access to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. We must continue to support all efforts to end bigotry and prejudice towards gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgendered Americans to ensure a brighter future for all of our fellow citizens.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.01.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement regarding the 2015 hurricane season, which begins on June 1st and ends November 30th: “Today marks the beginning of the 2015 hurricane season. This year, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) is predicting below-normal hurricane activity, with a seventy percent chance of 6 to 11 named storms. As we enter this period of storm activity, it is imperative that all Floridians be prepared should a hurricane make landfall. “While NOAA’s prediction of a below-normal season may be welcomed news, we must not become complacent in our preparation. As residents of South Florida remember all too well, the 1992 hurricane season was also a below-normal season, with only seven named storms forming – yet one of those storms was Hurricane Andrew, a Category 5 Major Hurricane that devastated the region. “A hurricane can be a destructive and often unpredictable force. Nothing can match thorough preparation to meet the challenges that a hurricane making landfall presents. I will continue to work closely with federal, state, and local agencies to ensure that the appropriate resources are available in the event of a hurricane striking our coast. I urge everyone to have a plan in place and be prepared should a hurricane make landfall.” For additional information on the 2015 hurricane season, please visit Hastings’ official website at www.alceehastings.house.gov. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.22.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on his participation in the Tom Lantos Foundation’s Solidarity Sabbath, held on May 22, 2015: “I am proud to support the Tom Lantos Foundation’s Solidarity Sabbath initiative, an event that transcends geographical borders and religious affiliations and provides an opportunity for leaders in North America and Europe to express solidarity with the Jewish community at a time when acts of social cohesion are more urgent than ever. “Sadly, in the past few months we have witnessed a dramatic surge in anti-Semitic incidents across Europe, including the January murders of four Jewish customers at a kosher supermarket in Paris, and the murder of a Jewish man guarding a synagogue in Copenhagen in February. Painful, vivid memories are being resurrected as Jewish communities around Europe are once again living under the cloud of social hostility, embarrassment and violent threats. “For this very reason, I am pleased to have recently introduced a bipartisan resolution with Representative Robert Dold of Illinois to combat the rise of anti-Semitism in Europe, which encourages our European friends to counter this disturbing trend while also committing the United States to abetting this effort in every way possible “By encouraging leaders to join with our European friends in participating in a variety of Sabbath services or related activities, the Solidarity Sabbath provides a framework for leaders of all faiths to band together in solidarity with Jewish communities around the world. In recognition of this important day, I encourage leaders both at home and abroad to unite in support of tolerance, peace and co-existence. When individuals of all religions, backgrounds and races come together in defense of fundamental human rights, all of our communities benefit.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.21.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Congressman Jeff Denham (R-CA) released the following statement on the Pollinator Health Task Force’s release of the National Strategy to Promote the Health of Honey Bees and Other Pollinators: “This week, the Pollinator Task Force released its National Strategy to Promote the Health of the Honey Bees and Other Pollinators. The plan, which is a culmination of a comprehensive and collaborative effort across 14 agencies and the private sector, outlines ways to improve pollinator health. It sets the goals of reducing honey bee colony losses during winter to no more than 15 percent within 10 years, and to restoring or enhancing 7 million acres of land for pollinators over the next 5 years. “As Co-Chairmen of the Congressional Pollinator Protection Caucus, the goal of which is to find solutions to the issues facing pollinators nationwide, we applaud the efforts of the Task Force. This strategy could not have come at a more critical time for pollinators, as a recently released study revealed that in a 12-month period ending in April, more than 40 percent of U.S. honeybee colonies died. “Pollinators are vital to our nation’s agriculture, economy, and ecosystem. With 75 percent of flowering plants relying on pollinators, and pollinators contributing nearly $15 billion to the nation’s economy, improving their health and strengthening their population is critically important. We are pleased that the issues facing pollinators are receiving the attention needed and will continue to work toward improving pollinator health nationwide.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as a Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chair of the Florida Delegation. Congressman Jeff Denham serves on the Transportation and Infrastructure, Natural Resources and Agriculture committees. ###
05.20.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) participated in the 4th Annual Congressional Foster Youth Shadow Day. He was shadowed by Ms. Ke’Onda Johnson of Riviera Beach, FL and made the following statement in regards to the experience: "It was a great honor to meet Ke’Onda and have the opportunity visit with her and hear her story. Supporting foster youth is a priority of mine. I always enjoy participating in the shadow day program. I believe that this program is mutually beneficial. The day gives more than 60 foster youth the opportunity look into the peephole of their future possibilities. At the same time, it gives Congressional members the opportunity to take a peek into their lives and help us to better understand their social, physical, and emotional needs. "As a member of the Congressional Foster Youth Caucus, I am extremely grateful to the foster youth who came to Capitol Hill to participate in this program. It is my sincere hope that my colleagues will continue to unite behind this worthwhile program for years to come and that these foster youth will continue to realize their fullest potential." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.19.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement regarding the death of Cassandra and Catherine Colon in the 18 May Pahokee Fire: “My thoughts and prayers go out to the surviving family members of Cassandra and Catherine Colon. Words cannot express how sorry I am for this tragic loss and the injuries that were sustained by their mother. “I want to applaud and thank all of the first responders who worked so quickly to rescue the family from the fire. “Every family should have the resources they need, such as batteries for a smoke detector, to prevent tragedies such as this. “It is my sincere hope that the family and friends of the Colons know that we mourn with them at this most difficult time.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.18.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement regarding the 50th Anniversary of the Head Start Program: “Investing in the education of our nation’s youth builds stronger families, stronger communities, and a stronger nation. Since its inception, Head Start has served more than 32 million children and their families in urban and rural areas all over the country. “I am extremely proud of all the Head Start centers around the country that work with families to ensure they have the means to obtain health insurance, provide services for children with disabilities, adequate housing, and job training. Every child in America should be afforded an equal opportunity to succeed, regardless of what neighborhood they live in or how much money their parents make. “It is my sincere hope that my Republican colleagues will abandon their plans for critical cuts to this valuable program and work with House Democrats to close the educational opportunity gap." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.15.2015	Rep. Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Rep. David Schweikert (R-AZ) Co-Chairs of the Congressional Tunisia Caucus, released a joint statement on their amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act of 2016, expressing the sense of Congress that the United States assist and cooperate with the Republic of Tunisia as it combats the threat posed by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) or other terrorist organizations. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings: “The United States must stand ready to assist the Tunisian people combat the rising threat posed by ISIL and other terrorist organizations, as such groups try to destroy the impressive democratic gains made by Tunisia. There is no doubt that Tunisia’s dedication to freedom and the rule of law is a direct threat to the hideous ideology championed by terrorist groups like ISIL. All democracies, young and old alike, must come to Tunisia’s aid in an effort to protect freedom and democracy in a region that knows too little of both.” Congressman David Schweikert: “Tunisia and America have a long and rich history of friendship and partnership. As we saw with the tragic Bardo Museum attack, Tunisia's democratic aspirations have made them a target for terrorists and extremists in the region. Representative Hastings and my amendment would forge closer cooperation between our nations to combat those that wish to reverse Tunisia's democratic progress." Congressman David Schweikert and Congressman Alcee L. Hastings registered the Tunisia Caucus in the Summer of 2013. Since its inception, the Caucus has worked to inform policy makers of the democratic transition in Tunisia, while strengthening bilateral relations between the United States and Tunisia. ###
05.13.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) reintroduced the Wildlife Veterinarians Employment and Training Act of 2015. The bill aims to support job growth for qualified wildlife and zoo veterinarians, as well as advance a robust public health policy across the country. (Please find attached a copy of the bill). “Wildlife and zoological veterinarians enhance global wildlife and public health through their involvement in conservation efforts, dissemination of important information on potential health threats to society, research and development. Their diligence in protecting animals, both wild and domestic, is rarely acknowledged to the extent that it should be. Yet, they are oftentimes the first responders to dangerous and communicable diseases,” Hastings said. “My bill will help veterinary medical schools develop innovative programs that specialize in wildlife and zoo veterinary medicine, and also expand the number of practical training courses that are made available. Additionally, this legislation will provide further incentives for studying and working in the veterinary field, by limiting the amount of educational debt that students accrue through a scholarship or loan repayment program,” Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors of the legislation include (6): Reps. Madeleine Z. Bordallo (D-GU), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Sam Farr (D-CA), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Jared Polis (D-CO), and Kurt Schrader (D-OR). Endorsing organizations: The Association of American Veterinary Medical Colleges, Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies, American Fisheries Society, Association of Zoos & Aquariums, Association of Reptilian and Amphibian Veterinarians, Chicago Zoological Society, Brookfield Zoo, and University of Florida. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.13.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement regarding the train derailment in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania: “My thoughts and prayers go out to the passengers and crew members who were on board the derailed Amtrak train last night. Words cannot express how sorry I am for those who lost loved ones and for those injured. “I want to applaud and thank all of the first responders and passengers who worked so quickly to bring medical attention to those in need. “I am encouraged by the quick response of both the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) and Federal Railroad Administration (FRA), as they begin their investigation of what led to this derailment. “It is my sincere hope that the families and friends of those lost, and those facing a challenging road to recovery, know that we mourn with them at this most difficult time.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.13.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) offered an amendment to H.R. 1735, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016, calling for additional funds to be directed to Jordanian border security and military activities. (Please find attached a copy of the amendment): “I am proud to have offered an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which would provide an additional $25 million both to Jordanian border security efforts and enhanced military capability, respectively. “This funding will be offset by reducing monetary support for the Afghan National Security Forces by $50 million. “At its current allocation, Afghan National Security Forces stand to receive $4.1 billion, nearly $338 million over the President’s request. The transfer of $50 million out of this excess funding to these important programs will not only have a profound impact on the security of Jordan, a strategic partner in the region, but will also keep valuable and lethal weapons out of the hands of violent extremists in Afghanistan and elsewhere whose main objective is intimidate those of us who seek to uphold democracy. “We have seen all too often the vacuum of power that is left when U.S. troops are extracted from military endeavors, leaving behind local militaries ill-equipped to handle the complex and violent situations that confront them. For this reason, I take issue with continuing to fund Afghan forces at the rate that we seek to in this legislation, when terrorist organizations such as ISIS and the Taliban have seized military equipment provided to the Afghan National Security Forces at great cost to the U.S. Government. “Jordan has long served as a strategic partner to the U.S., cooperating on a number of security, regional and international issues. Its geographic position in the region, makes Jordan a critical ally in the fight against violent extremism. In light of the ongoing political change and unrest in the region, it is my strong belief that increasing assistance to Jordan for border security and military operations has never been more important.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.12.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) introduced the Ending Corporal Punishment In Schools Act of 2015, which would end corporal punishment in our nation’s schools (Please find attached a copy of the legislation): "Corporal punishment is disproportionately used as a form of punishment for African American students and children with disabilities. Although it is currently banned in 31 states, on average about 838 students are hit each day in public schools and this must be stopped. "Schools are supposed to be safe places where students learn and are protected from harm." Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors of the resolution include (11): Reps. Tony Cardenas (D-CA), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), David Loebsack (D-IA), Jerry McNerney (D-CA), Eleanor Holmes-Norton (D-DC), Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Jared Polis (D-CO), Charles Rangel (D-NY), Bobby Scott (D-VA), and Louise McIntosh Slaughter (D-NY). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.01.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (FL-20) will travel to Israel as the senior member of a bipartisan delegation from May 2 – 8, 2015. Hastings, who serves as the Ranking Democratic Member of the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe (the Helsinki Commission) and Co-Chair of the Democratic Israel Working Group (DIWG), plans to meet with Israeli and Palestinian government officials, including Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas. The delegation will also meet with the U.S. Ambassador to Israel, Dan Shapiro, members of the Israeli Knesset, along with other officials. “This will be my sixteenth trip to Israel as a Member of Congress. Given current events taking place in the region, I believe that this is an important opportunity to meet with senior Israeli and Palestinian leaders on a wide range of issues concerning political developments in Israel, regional security in the Middle East, the ongoing peace process, as well as the U.S.-Israeli relationship,” said Hastings. The trip is being organized by the American Israel Education Foundation (AIEF), an independent, non-profit charitable organization. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.30.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Congressman Vern Buchanan (R-FL), Co-Chairmen of the Florida Congressional Delegation sent the following letter with Florida members to the Director of the United States Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), Richard Cordray. Please find below and attached a copy of the letter: April 28, 2015 The Honorable Richard Cordray Director United States Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 1700 G Street, NW Washington, DC 20552 Dear Director Cordray: We write in regard to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s (CFPB) most recent proposed rules to regulate payday lenders and other forms of credit. While we strongly support meaningful and robust safeguards to prevent predatory lending practices in this market, we have continually insisted that any regulatory framework established be carefully balanced with the need to provide consumers with access to a range of financial services. We have also consistently stressed the importance of guaranteeing that any regulations established are based on complete data, sound science and a transparent process that ensures all stakeholders have a place at the negotiating table. For these reasons, we share several concerns with the one-size-fits-all policy envisioned under CFPB’s proposed approach. As you know, the payday loan statute in our home state of Florida is among the most progressive and effective in the nation. Indeed, it has become a national example of the successful compromise between strong consumer protection and increased access to credit. Over the past several years, many lenders that offer payday loans have proactively undertaken radical reforms that encourage the responsible use of short-term loans, including the extended repayment plan. These reforms have enabled consumers to secure desperately needed payday loans or other short-term credit in a regulated environment that protects them from economic harm. In light of Florida’s success in this regard, in addition to the two pronged framework that you have established to implement debt trap prevention and debt trap protection, we implore you to include the Florida model as a third method. To ignore our experience, which has proven to encourage lending practices that are fair and transparent without restricting credit options, would do an immeasurable disservice to our constituents, many of whom rely on the availability of short-term and small dollar loans from regulated, licensed non-bank lenders to make ends meet. Eliminating such products from the market will almost certainly have the opposite effect of that intended by CFPB, forcing consumers to turn to more expensive alternatives and/or unlicensed lenders, many of which are out-of-state or offshore and beyond the reach of regulators. We look forward to hearing from you about the concerns raised in this letter and to working together on this matter and other efforts to ensure the financial well-being of all Americans. Sincerely, Representatives: Alcee L. Hastings Vern Buchanan Debbie Wasserman Schultz Dennis A. Ross Alan Grayson Bill Posey Patrick E. Murphy Ander Crenshaw Frederica S. Wilson Daniel Webster Gwen Graham David Jolly Corrine Brown Jeff Miller Lois Frankel Carlos Curbelo Kathy Castor Rich Nugent Ted Deutch Mario Diaz-Balart Ileana Ros-Lehtinen Ted Yoho Rob DeSantis Gus Bilirakis Curt Clawson John Mica
04.23.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on Yom Ha'atzmaut, Israel's Independence Day: “Today I am delighted to mark the anniversary of the creation of the State of Israel, known as Yom Ha’atzmaut, a day on which we celebrate its establishment and growth, and recognize the fortitude of the Israeli people. “For 67 years, Israel has stood as a shining example of freedom and democracy in a region plagued by violence and oppression. Since President Harry S. Truman famously recognized the nascent state only 11 minutes after its founding, our two nations have shared the common bonds of democracy, economic vitality, and cultural affinity, tied together in an unbreakable friendship based on religious kinships and mutual interests. “As a Member of Congress, I have been honored to travel to Israel 15 times and never cease to be impressed by the strength of Israel and its people. I will continue to do all that I can in Congress to ensure that Israelis have a secure and peaceful homeland. It is my sincere hope that through diplomatic efforts the future will bring a fair solution that enables both Israelis and Palestinians to live in peace and prosperity. I wish the people and government of Israel a Chag Sameach, a happy holiday.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.17.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) introduced a resolution recognizing America’s homeless veterans (Please find attached a copy of the resolution): “On any given night, nearly 50,000 veterans sleep in homeless shelters or on the streets. Furthermore, approximately 260,000 veterans use homeless shelters or other services during the course of a year. These courageous men and women have stood up in defense of our freedom, and we owe them more than our gratitude – we owe them our firm commitment to ensure that they receive the care and benefits they earned through their service. “We may all take pride and comfort in the recent finding that homelessness among veterans has begun to decrease. One of the biggest contributors to the decreased number of homeless veterans has been the increased federal investment in efficient and effective programs. In addition, there has been significant progress, but more must be done. It is time that we recognize these unsung heroes who have returned from service to face hard times and homelessness. Thus, I have introduced this bipartisan resolution to pay tribute to the vast number of men and women who have served our nation in uniform. And yet, return home from service homeless, some of whom survive war to die on the streets of this country. To me, that is just plain wrong and must be addressed.” Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors of the resolution are Representatives (17): Corrine Brown (D-FL), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Judy Chu (D-CA), Al Green (D-TX), Raul M. Grijalva (D-AZ), Brian Higgins (D-NY), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Michael M. Honda (D-CA), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), David W. Jolly (R-FL), James R. Langevin (D-RI), Brenda L. Lawrence (D-MI), Donald M. Payne, Jr. (D-NJ), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Charles B. Rangel (D-BY), and Adam B. Schiff (D-CA). The resolution is also supported by the following organizations: Veterans Matter, Give US Your Poor: The Campaign to End Homelessness, Funders Together to End Homelessness, National Alliance to End Homelessness, The National Coalition for Homeless Veterans, Major General William L. Nash (U.S. Army, Ret.), Zero: 2016, and The National Coalition for the Homeless. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.15.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) introduced a resolution to establish June as “National Men’s Cancer Awareness Month.” (Please find attached a copy of the resolution): “One in two men will be diagnosed with cancer over the course of their lifetime, compared to one in three for their female counterparts. These cancers can often be prevented entirely or improved with early detection. Thus, I am introducing this resolution to establish June as Men’s Cancer Awareness Month. Its purpose is to heighten the awareness of preventable diseases and encourage early detection and treatment of cancer among men. “The Men’s Cancer Awareness month campaign has gained momentum in states and cities across our nation. Joel Gresham, a constituent from my district, launched Not 1 Forgotten in 2013, to bring attention to men’s cancer awareness after losing two close friends to cancer. Through his efforts, Men’s Cancer Awareness Month is currently recognized in Fort Lauderdale, Atlanta, Augusta, Chicago, Miami Dade County, New York, Miramar, Los Angeles, Houston and many other cities.” “Designating June as National Men’s Cancer Awareness Month will help to recognize the disparities that exist in the development of cancer in men. Furthermore, the establishment of June as “National Men’s Cancer Awareness Month” will cost nothing. However, its impact will hopefully pay great dividends by indentifying cancer at an earlier stage, slowing the rate of cancer related fatalities, celebrating the lives of men currently living with cancer, and eliminating the taboo associated with many male cancers.” Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors of the resolution are Representatives (10): Yvette D. Clarke (D- NY), Robin L. Kelly (D-IL), Brenda L. Lawrence (D-MI), James P. McGovern (D-MA), Gwen S. Moore (D-WI), Patrick Murphy (D-FL), Donald M. Payne, Jr (D-NJ), Charles B. Rangel (D-Y), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), and Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation.
04.14.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement in observance of Equal Pay Day, which marks the point at which the average women’s earnings finally equal those of their male counterparts from the previous year: “Today we mark yet another Equal Pay Day, a day designated to acknowledging that despite passage of the Equal Pay Act over five decades ago, equal pay for equal work still remains a major issue. “Although women make up almost 50 percent of the workforce, holding nearly two-thirds of minimum-wage jobs, women earn 78 cents for each dollar earned by their male counterparts nationally, and just over 84 cents for every dollar earned by men in Florida. The reality of this disparity is unacceptable and the time to close this wage gap is long overdue. “I am proud to be an original co-sponsor of the Paycheck Fairness Act of 2015, a bill that would take significant steps to improve pay equity and increase penalties on employers paying discriminatory wages. Ensuring the economic security of the women in our workforce will improve the economic security of families – when women succeed, America succeeds. “Wage discrimination affects us all. Hardworking American women should not have to live in poverty. As we mark Equal Pay Day, I will continue to fight to ensure that women receive equal pay for equal work.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.10.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in observance of National Youth HIV & AIDS Awareness Day: “Today marks the third annual commemoration of National Youth HIV & AIDS Awareness Day, a day designated to educating the public about the profound impact HIV and AIDS has on our nation’s young people, while also highlighting the work being done across the country to end this epidemic. “According to the Center for Disease Control (CDC), nearly 40 percent of all new HIV cases are among individuals under 30 years old, with over 70,000 youths currently living with HIV and AIDS in the United States. Even more troubling, from 2007 to 2010, individuals between the ages of 15 and 24 experienced an increase in the rate of diagnoses of HIV infection despite continued advancements in antiretroviral drugs and improvements in care. “These disturbing statistics reinforce the urgent need to raise public awareness about getting tested and to continue to challenge the stigma that prevents so many individuals from accessing the care they need. “As a proud member of the Congressional HIV/AIDS Caucus, I have long supported robust funding for the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) and the Global Fund, the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program, AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP), Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA) Program, Minority HIV/AIDS Initiative, and National AIDS Strategy, as well as HIV/AIDS research. I urge my colleagues to do the same, and to join me in recognizing National Youth HIV & AIDS Awareness Day.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.03.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on his recent residential home move to Delray Beach, FL: “I recently moved to Delray Beach. I feel that my new home is more centrally located to help me better serve my constituents, that I am truly honored to represent in Congress.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.31.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement regarding Governor Mike Pence’s announcement that he will direct the Indiana legislature to issue a clarification to SB 101, a law that if permitted to go into effect as written will serve as a vehicle for discrimination based on sexual orientation: “SB 101, in its current form, poses a direct threat to the unity, tolerance and equality of not only the state of Indiana, but of the entire country. By permitting individuals and businesses to discriminate against specific groups based on religious beliefs, this legislation not only sanctions discrimination, but enshrines it into state law. Our nation, which serves as a model of tolerance, egalitarianism and hope for the entire world, can only truly prosper when all of its citizens are guaranteed equal rights and equal protection under the law.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.30.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the tragic automobile accident involving a van of parishioners from the Independent Haitian Assembly of God in Fort Pierce, Florida: “I am deeply saddened by the deadly church van crash that took place in Glade County earlier today. My thoughts and prayers are with the families and friends of those who lost their lives and were injured. “I want to commend the rescue personnel and local authorities who responded to the crash for their efforts to assist those injured and prevent further loss of life. As we wait for additional information to emerge, let us keep in our thoughts with the victims and their families at this most difficult time.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation ###
03.23.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Congressman David Schweikert (R-AZ), Co-Chairmen of the Tunisia Caucus made the following statement in recognition of Tunisia National Day: “We congratulate the people of Tunisia on celebrating their 59th year of independence. As the first country to recognize Tunisia’s independence in 1956, it is only fitting that we highlight their contributions to democracy. As we have seen in recent days, this commitment to democracy will at times bring brutal attempts by terrorists to undermine its democratic progress. However, we know that those gathering to celebrate this independence and mourn the recent loss of life, bravely stand for an independence from tyranny. We stand shoulder to shoulder with the people of Tunisia as they pursue a strong and democratic future for their country, and wish them a happy and peaceful National Day.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings and Congressman David Schweikert established the Tunisia Caucus in 2013. Since its inception, the Caucus has worked to inform policy makers of the democratic transition in Tunisia, while also strengthen bilateral relations between our two nations. ###
03.23.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) introduced a resolution honoring Dr. Elmira Mangum as the first female president of Florida A&M University (Please find attached a copy of the resolution): “Dr. Elmira Mangum is paving the way for women across the country to realize their dreams and achieve greatness. That is why I was proud to introduce this resolution honoring her as the first permanent female president of Florida A&M University (FAMU), one of the nation’s most distinguished Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs). “She is a trailblazer who serves as a role model for men and women alike. Dr. Mangum has already made great progress in advancing the institution and this is clearly only the beginning for her.” Joining Hastings original co-sponsors of the resolution include (8): Reps. Corrine Brown (D-FL), Kathy Castor (D-FL), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Frederica Wilson (D-FL), John Mica (R-FL), Richard Nugent (R-FL), and Sheila Jackson-Lee (D-TX). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.19.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (FL-20) made the following statement in support for H.R. 12, the Voter Empowerment Act (VEA): “The right to vote is a pillar of our democracy, and yet, the fight to protect this basic right and ensure access to the ballot box continues. That is why I was proud to join Rep. John Lewis (GA-5), House Democratic Whip Steny H. Hoyer (MD-5), Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn (SC-6), Rep. John Conyers (MI-13), Rep. Robert Brady (PA-1), and more than 170 Democrats as an original co-sponsor of H.R. 12, the Voter Empowerment Act. “Today, this pillar of democracy is consistently eroded by Republicans who insist on implementing policies that will make it more difficult for minorities, seniors, and college students to vote. In the wake of the recent commemoration of the 50th anniversary of ‘Bloody Sunday,’ we must remember and pay tribute to those courageous men and women who bravely took a stand, which sparked the conscious of our nation. Voting rights should be a bipartisan issue. I urge the House Republican Leadership to bring this measure to the floor next week for consideration." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.18.2015	Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and David Schweikert (R-AZ), Co-Chairmen of the Tunisia Caucus made the following statement regarding the Tunisia museum attack: “I am deeply saddened by the museum attack that took place in Tunisia earlier today. My thoughts and prayers are with the family and friends who lost loved ones in this horrific event. This attack reminds us all that there are still people who choose hate and intolerance, over understanding and compassion. This was a heinous and cowardly act of violence and highlights the importance of the international community’s continued cooperation to combat terrorism,” said Hastings. “First and foremost, I believe I speak for all Americans when I express my deepest condolences to the friends and families of those who were injured, or lost their lives, in today’s senseless violent attacks,” said Schweikert. “I strongly condemn this act of terrorism against both the people of Tunisia and its foreign visitors. Further, I strongly encourage all Tunisians to unequivocally stand together in opposition to extremism and violence of any kind. Despite challenges ahead I remain committed in my dedication to work with the Tunisian people to ensure a safe and democratic future for Tunisia.”. ###
03.04.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (FL-20) sent the following letter to the House Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Senate Finance Committee urging that the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) be prioritized. Federal funding for this successful program is set to expire in September. Therefore, immediate action is needed. Without funding, participants would be forced to find alternative health coverage. Over 350,000 Florida kids could be impacted by a loss of federal funding for CHIP. Preliminary estimates suggest that Florida could lose $500 million or more in federal funding annually if this program is allowed to expire. Co-signers of the letter include Representatives (9): Corrine Brown (FL-05), Ted Deutch (FL-21), Lois Frankel (FL-22), Gwen Graham (FL-02), Alan Grayson (FL-09), Patrick Murphy (FL-18), David Jolly (FL-13), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and Frederica Wilson (FL-24). (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter): March 3, 2015 The Honorable Fred Upton The Honorable Orrin G. Hatch Chairman Chairman House Committee on Energy and Commerce Senate Committee on Finance 2183 Rayburn House Office Building 219 Dirksen Senate Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20510 The Honorable Frank Pallone, Jr. The Honorable Ron Wyden Ranking Member Ranking Member House Committee on Energy and Commerce Senate Committee on Finance 237 Cannon House Office Building 219 Dirksen Senate Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20510 RE: Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) Dear Chairmen Upton and Hatch and Ranking Members Pallone and Wyden: We write in regards to the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and respectfully request you extend the funding through 2019 and work to address “the family glitch”. As you know, federal funding for this successful program is set to expire in September of this year, therefore immediate action is needed. CHIP was enacted in 1997 to provide health insurance coverage for uninsured children and pregnant women in low- to moderate-income families who have annual incomes above Medicaid eligibility levels. Over the past 18 years, enrollment has steadily grown to cover nearly 8.5 million individuals. It has helped lower the uninsured rate among low-income American children from 25 percent in 1997 to 13 percent in 2012. CHIP was modified and extended under the Affordable Care Act (ACA) in 2010 through Sept. 30, 2015. This modification provided $19.1 billion for fiscal year (FY) 14 and $21.1 billion for FY15. However, under current law, there are no new funds for CHIP at the end of FY15, which would force participants to find alternative health coverage. The 2010 modification also requires states to maintain eligibility standards through 2019. The difference in the 2015 expiration for federal funding compared to the 2019 maintenance of eligibility requirements creates a critical unfunded gap from October 1, 2015 through 2019. CHIP is a federal-state partnership whereby the federal government sets basic requirements for CHIP, but states have the flexibility to design their own version of CHIP within the federal government’s basic framework. CHIP has strong bipartisan support at the state and federal level. Under the current CHIP program, the federal government reimburses states for a portion of every dollar they spend on CHIP up to state-specific annual limits. States rely on these funds to ensure their health needs are addressed. At your request, forty governors (20 Republicans and 19 Democrats) sent letters to Congress this past December regarding extending the program, noting how vital it is in their respective states. They all favorably supported an extension of CHIP funding. It is imperative that we act soon on CHIP considering that state legislatures are beginning to convene and determine their respective fiscal year budgets. Furthermore, they expressed that the states would like to know CHIP’s future with sufficient lead time to determine their budgets, since many will be convening for session next month to set the budget for the July 2015-July 2016 fiscal year. As a result, they need to know the fate of this federal-state partnership program. As members of Congress, it is our responsibility to demonstrate our commitment to proven programs, such as CHIP, that are focusing on the needs of the children in their states. It is in the country’s best interest that our children have access to quality, affordable health care. Catastrophic effects are highly probable without CHIP. Studies show that having access to health insurance as a child improves educational achievement. Uninsured children are more likely to go without immunizations and miss school because of untreated illness. Health coverage keeps children in good health. Good health means that children’s brains develop on track and they enter school ready to learn. Without the coverage, they are also more likely to seek care in emergency rooms due to their decreased access to primary and preventive care. This influx of children and families in emergency rooms will cripple the ability of hospitals to treat more life-threatening injuries. While we work on the funding aspect of CHIP, we should also focus on “the family glitch.” The family glitch is a regulation that keeps children and some adults from obtaining Marketplace coverage and tax credits if one parent has employer coverage that is deemed “affordable,” even if family coverage is not affordable. This “family glitch” threatens to leave nearly a half million kids without health insurance. Without CHIP, that number would rise into the millions. We believe that CHIP continues to be a very successful program. It is our sincere hope that we can work together to ensure that the program is, at a minimum, fully funded through FY 19, as well as strengthened by addressing “the family glitch” regulation. Thank you for your time and consideration. If you should need any additional information, please do not hesitate to ask. Sincerely, ________________________ ________________________ Alcee L. Hastings Corrine Brown Member of Congress Member of Congress ________________________ ________________________ Theodore E. Deutch Lois Frankel Member of Congress Member of Congress ________________________ ________________________ Alan Grayson David Jolly Member of Congress Member of Congress ________________________ ________________________ Patrick Murphy Debbie Wasserman Schultz Member of Congress Member of Congress ________________________ ________________________ Frederica S. Wilson Gwen Graham Member of Congress Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.04.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), Co-Founder and Co-Chairman of the Congressional Homelessness Caucus, introduced the Services for Ending Long-Term Homelessness Act. This bill would establish a grant program to provide permanent supportive housing for chronically homeless individuals and families whose needs are not addressed by traditional affordable housing. (Please find the attached copy of the bill): “The very sad reality is that approximately 84,291 Americans experience chronic homelessness on any given night,” said Hastings. “This bill will help to alleviate the widespread problem of chronic homelessness across the country.” “It provides innovative new requirements for the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to end the problem of unstable housing, which is blighting the lives of as many as 2 million people across our nation. By focusing on HHS, the bill aims to succeed where previous initiatives have fallen short. “Recently, I had the opportunity to meet with Mr. Arnold Abbott, a homeless advocate in my district. During our conversation he mentioned a number of issues facing the homeless population he serves, many of which this bill aims to address. Supportive services are 100 percent practical and make strong economic sense. Studies have demonstrated that these services are a guaranteed investment of public and private resources, resulting in significant reductions in readmissions to hospitals, nursing homes or prisons, as well as an overall positive shift in mental and physical well-being. Furthermore, they are an effective means to end long-term homelessness,” Hastings further commented. “I encourage my colleagues in Congress to help address the widespread problem of chronic homelessness across our nation by supporting this critically important legislation.” Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors of this legislation include (7): Representatives Mark Takano (D-HI), Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Frederica S. Wilson (D-FL), Alan Grayson (D-FL), Lois Frankel (D-FL), Cedric L. Richmond (D-LA) and Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX). ###
03.02.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement in recognition of Women's History Month: “Each year during the month of March our nation observes Women’s History Month by celebrating the achievements and contributions made by women to our country, as well as the world. This March, let us remember those women who have helped pioneer our democracy and who, not only as mothers, daughters, and sisters, but as veterans, business leaders, and public officials, have successively assisted in building our great nation and invigorated our communities. “Women today continue to follow the example of strong women leaders such as Eleanor Roosevelt, Amelia Earhart, Rosa Parks and numerous more. From Susan B. Anthony’s struggle for women’s suffrage to Lilly Ledbetter’s fight to gain fair pay, great strides have been made towards women’s equality in our society. And yet, while much progress has been made, many challenges in the fight for gender equality remain. For over 20 years, I have proudly supported legislation critical to the continued expansion of women’s rights. “As we commemorate the contributions and leadership of women this month, it is important that we also renew our efforts to address discrimination against women in all its forms. We must continue to support legislation that mandates paycheck fairness, invests in employment opportunities for women, supports fair maternity and family leave policies, and raises the minimum wage. Together, we must commit to ending discrimination once and for all. This month I urge you to join me in paying tribute to the generations of women whose leadership, service, and accomplishments have proved invaluable to our nation.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.02.2015	Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Representative Robert Dold (R-IL) have introduced H.Res.130 to combat the rise of anti-Semitism in Europe. This is the companion to S.Res.87, legislation authored and introduced by Senator Robert Menendez’s (D-NJ). (Please find attached a copy of the resolution): “Today, the prevalence of Holocaust denial and anti-Semitism across our globe is once again on the rise. All one needs to do is look across Europe to see this disturbing trend,” said Hastings. “We must stand with the Jewish community in Europe and demand that our European allies work diligently and without delay to confront and put an end to these heinous acts. Blind hatred has no place in our world, and each of us has the responsibility to make our own communities safer and a more tolerant place to live,” Hastings further noted. “In the past year, we have witnessed a dramatic surge in anti-Semitic incidents across Europe, including the January murders of four Jewish customers at a kosher supermarket in Paris. I am pleased to lead on this important resolution which encourages our European friends to counter this disturbing trend while also committing the United States to assist in every way possible. We must shine a bright spotlight on anti-Semitism in order to end indifference and root out the hateful ideology any time it rears its ugly head,” added Dold. ###
02.24.2015	Today, Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) introduced a resolution to establish a National Voting Rights Day, on which the magnitude of the Voting Rights Act would be recognized. (Please find attached a copy of the resolution): “Each February we celebrate Black History Month by commemorating the achievements of African Americans and their invaluable contributions to our nation’s history. Few pieces of legislation have had a more profound effect on the African American community in this country than the Voting Rights Act. “Signed into law on August 6, 1965 by President Lyndon B. Johnson, the Voting Rights Act has served as our nation’s most important safeguard against racial discrimination in our electoral system and has not only exponentially expanded the level of African American voter registration and participation, but also vastly increased the number of African American and other minority elected officials. Yet despite momentous gains, voter suppression and discrimination still exists at the polls. Indeed, the Supreme Court’s recent decision in Shelby County v. Holder undermines the very principals the Voting Rights Act was established to protect – the ability of all Americans to fully participate in society. “Designating August 6th as National Voting Rights Day will highlight the continued significance of this legislation while also encouraging efforts to register voters and promote civic engagement. Establishing a National Voting Rights Day will cost nothing, but its existence will pay great dividends in knowledge, commitment, and voter participation.” Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors of the resolution are Representatives (36): Mark Takai (D-HI), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), John Garamendi (D-CA), Gregory Meeks (D-NY), Derek Kilmer (D-WA), Charles Rangel (D-NY), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Peter Welch (D-VT), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Terri Sewell (D-AL), Robert Brady (D-PA), Frederica Wilson (D-FL), Sanford Bishop, Jr. (D-GA), Patrick Murphy (D-FL), Maxine Waters (D-CA), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Cheri Bustos (D-IL), Juan Vargas (D-CA), Judy Chu (D-CA), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Andre Carson (D-IN), Joyce Beatty (D-OH), Mike Honda (D-CA), Louise Slaughter (D-NY), Adam Smith (D-WA), Al Green (D-TX), Bobby Scott (D-VA), Corrine Brown (D-FL), Elijah Cummings (D-MD), Marcia Fudge (D-OH), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), John Yarmuth (D-KY) and Kathy Castor (D-FL). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.11.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the reintroduction of the Lena Horne Recognition Act of 2015, which would award the Congressional Gold Medal Posthumously to Lena Horne. (Please find attached a copy of the legislation): “I am truly honored to reintroduce legislation that would award Lena Horne with a Congressional Gold Medal. I believe that her outstanding contributions to American culture and the Civil Rights Movement are to be commended. “From a very early age, Ms. Horne was a trailblazer for African American performers, working her way from the famed Cotton Club in Harlem to Broadway and Hollywood. Her beauty and unique voice brought her much attention for decades, as she battled the extremes of Jim Crow and segregation. “However, Ms. Horne never wavered from her commitment to the Civil Rights Movement, challenging the boundaries placed before her, and sometimes losing out on personal gain by refusing to adhere to the societal structures at hand. “As we celebrate Black History Month, let us remind ourselves of the work that has been done to create new paths for so many others. Lena Horne was the epitome of class, elegance, and talent. Her commitment to social justice is deserving of this highest honor.” Joining Hastings as original cosponsors (22): Reps. Yvette Clarke (D-NY), Niki Tsongas (D-MA), John Yarmuth (D-KY), Gerald E. Connolly (D-VA), Patrick Murphy (D-FL), John C. Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Mark Takano (D-CA), Corrine Brown (D-FL), Janice Hahn (D-CA), Dina Titus (D-NV), G.K. Butterfield (D-NC), Andre Carson (D-IN), Donna Edwards (D-MD), Joyce Beatty (D-OH), Charles B. Rangel (D-NY), Brenda Lawrence (D-MI), Steve Chabot (R-OH), Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), Marcia Fudge (D-OH), and Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.10.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on House Republicans continued efforts to play a dangerous game with America’s national security: “At this crucial time, when the world is unified in trying to combat ISIS, House Republicans are choosing to gamble with the safety of all Americans by holding our national security hostage as they pursue their draconian political agenda. “While the international community is at a critical juncture due to the proliferation of ‘lone wolf’ terror attacks in recent weeks and months, Republicans are engaging in political brinkmanship by refusing to pass a clean bill to fund the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). Rather, they have opted to attach myopic, anti-immigration amendments to this important piece of legislation, which ought to have as its design, the goal of keeping all Americans safe and secure no matter where they are in the world. “As the February 27th deadline for the expiration of current DHS funding draws closer, I urge House Republicans to stop this pointless politicking, which is endangering our national security, and pass a clean DHS funding bill. “Indeed, it is our front-line security personnel who will bear the brunt of the Republicans’ political games. If the Republicans fail to pass a DHS funding bill more than 40,000 Border Patrol Agents and Customs and Border Patrol officers, as well as 13,000 Immigration and Customs Enforcement law enforcement agents, among many others, will be without pay for an indefinite period of time. “Attaching conditions and ultimatums to fundamental legislation is not the way to go about addressing immigration policy. If Republicans really want to debate immigration issues they should work with House Democrats to reach an extensive, bipartisan, consensus that reflects the views of the American public. Perpetuating this DHS stalemate is as dangerous to our country’s security as it is corrosive to our democratic process.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.31.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in recognition of African American History Month: “On February 1, 2015, our nation will again observe African American History Month. Since 1976, February has been designated as the month to celebrate the achievements and contributions that have been made by African Americans to our nation and the world. The rich history of the African American Diaspora and undeniable involvement of the Black American in all facets of our nation’s growth are uniquely integral when determining the cultural and infrastructural value that has been laid as a foundation by the generations that predate us. February is the month that has been set aside to recognize the central role African Americans hold in the rich tapestry of U.S. history. “This year’s theme for Black History Month is “A Century of Black Life, History, and Culture.” Across our district and the nation, we will be recognizing 100 years of contributions African Americans have made to making the United States what it is today. We will be celebrating civil rights leaders, inventors, public servants, athletes, actors, diplomats, artists, writers, and musicians. To that effect, this February, I will reintroduce legislation to award the Congressional Gold Medal posthumously to one such trailblazer and image of excellence, Lena Horne, for her contributions to music, film, and the Civil Rights Movement. “We must continue to reflect on the work that has been done, noting how much there is still left to do. In our quest for a more equitable nation, we must acknowledge the gaps that still exist, and be mindful of the potential that all of our children have in making their dreams realized—for in this fruition lies the best to come. “African American museums have been erected across the country due to the efforts of individuals like Margaret Boroughs, giving visitors the opportunity to celebrate African American culture year round. Additionally, I am proud to say that the Smithsonian’s National Museum of African American History and Culture is scheduled to be opened to the public later this year. It will occupy the last available space on the National Mall to pay homage to many of the individuals who have paved the way for us to traverse into the next century. “As we approach February 1st, I urge you to take a moment and participate in one of the many activities that will take place in your local community. African American history is America’s history.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.30.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement expressing his support for H.R. 590, the International Human Rights Defense Act of 2015. “I am proud to be an original cosponsor of bicameral legislation introduced yesterday by Representative Alan Lowenthal (D-CA) and Senator Edward J. Markey (D-MA) that directs the State Department to make preventing and responding to discrimination and violence against the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) community a foreign policy priority. By creating a position within the Department of State tasked with coordinating the many government bureaus and agencies responsible for implementing these objectives, our nation has taken a significant step toward enforcing the principle that all human beings are entitled to fundamental human rights, including the right to choose the individuals they love. “While recent judicial rulings and legislative initiatives in our own nation have provided the LGBT community with protection under the law, over 80 nations abroad continue to enforce laws that criminalize homosexuality, including 7 countries in which homosexuality is punishable by death. These policies, which serve to stifle support for LGBT individuals and promote homophobia, undermine the very foundations of a democratic society. “Throughout my tenure in Congress, I have fought diligently to uphold and strengthen the rights of LGBT individuals, both at home and abroad, and have worked to support initiatives that foster greater tolerance and acceptance for all people, while helping to prevent discrimination and violence. Intolerance against LGBT citizens and their families has no place in democratic discourse, and we must use this opportunity to reaffirm our commitment to promoting human rights both at home and abroad. LGBT rights are human rights.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.29.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking the sixth Anniversary of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act: “Today, we recognize the sixth Anniversary of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act. Passed in response to the Supreme Court’s decision in Ledbetter v Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co, the Act eased access to the courts for women seeking to challenge pay discrimination and encouraged employers to implement fair payment practices. “This bill was the first to be signed into law by President Obama. Since then, Democrats in Congress have continued to place paycheck equality at the forefront of their agenda. I am proud to be a co-sponsor of the Paycheck Fairness Act and Fair Minimum Wage Act of 2013. “The continued importance of equal pay was highlighted yet again by President Obama in last week’s State of the Union address. Despite our progress, equal pay for equal work is still a distant notion for many women in the workforce. Approximately half of American workers today are female. Yet women still receive only $0.78 cents on the dollar compared to men, with African American and Latina women receiving even less. “As we mark this anniversary, it is important to renew our efforts to address discrimination against women in all its forms. In the 114th Congress, I will continue to support legislation that mandates paycheck fairness, invests in employment opportunities for women, supports fair maternity and family leave policies and raises the minimum wage. Together, we must commit to ending discrimination once and for all.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.28.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after the Humane Society Legislative Fund awarded him a 100 percent rating on their 2014 Annual Scorecard: “I am delighted to receive this recognition from the Humane Society Legislative Fund. Since I came to Congress, and even before, animal welfare has remained an issue of great importance to me. As we move into our 114th Congress, I will continue to work to ensure that all animals are treated humanely. “I believe that animal abuse is unequivocally wrong, and will never waiver in my support for animal rights.” Hastings co-sponsored multiple pieces of legislation in the 113th Congress that will protect animal welfare as well as consumers, including H.R. 1518, the Preventing All Soring Tactics (PAST) Act, H.R. 1731, the Egg Products Inspection Act Amendments, H.R. 366, the Animal Fighting Spectator Prohibition Act, and H.R. 1094, the Safeguard American Food Exports (SAFE) Act. Every year, the Humane Society Legislative Fund rates U.S. Senators and Representatives on their leadership and advocacy for animal rights. The scorecard tracks key votes, sponsorship, and co-sponsorship of important pro-animal legislation. To view the entire scorecard, please visit: (http://www.hslf.org/assets/pdfs/humane-scorecard/humane-scorecard-2014.pdf) Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.27.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letter to the Brazilian Ambassador to the United States urging him to assist in the extradition of Brazilian citizen Daniela Torres, whose involvement in a drunk driving accident in the State of Florida left two Americans dead and one significantly injured. Ms. Torres fled the U.S. to escape the charges against her and avoid her impending trial. (Please find below a copy of the letter). January 27, 2015 The Honorable Luiz Machado Ambassador Embassy of Brazil 3006 Massachusetts Avenue N.W. Washington, D.C. 20008 Dear Ambassador Machado: I write to bring your attention to a tragic case that is currently in Florida’s Fifteenth Judicial Circuit, which is located in my Congressional District, State of Florida v. Daniela Torres. All available evidence has resulted in investigators concluding that on August 21, 2008, Daniela G. Torres, a citizen of Brazil, killed two citizens of the United States in the State of Florida. The two people needlessly lost that night were Ms. Deborah Peterson and Mr. Andrew A. Carr. Ms. Torres killed Ms. Peterson and Mr. Carr when she, while driving drunk, crashed her car into the back of the car Ms. Peterson and Mr. Carr were traveling in. Ms. Torres was so incredibly intoxicated while driving that she was found to be driving her vehicle at twice the legal limit under Florida law. The scene that resulted from Ms. Torres’ reckless behavior was as horrific as it remains heartbreaking for Ms. Peterson and Mr. Carr’s respective families and friends. Ms. Torres careened into the car Ms. Peterson and Mr. Carr were traveling in making their vehicle roll over multiple times which, in turn, ejected all of the passengers from the car. The violent nature of this ejection resulted in Ms. Peterson being declared dead at the scene of the accident. Mr. Peterson, having been ejected from the vehicle, lived long enough to be able to crawl up an embankment, while severely injured, as he sought help for his friends and himself. Mr. Carr died in the ambulance on his way to the hospital. After Ms. Torres was arrested she was mercifully, if ultimately misguidedly, held on a $50,000 bond, which she later posted. As a condition of her release, Ms. Torres was ordered to submit to random drug testing and was forbidden from leaving Palm Beach, Broward or Martin counties in Florida. She, however, violated the conditions of her pretrial release when she tested positive for a Schedule 1 controlled substance and failed to appear in court. Most disturbing and offensive is the fact that after being graciously granted an opportunity to post bail, she fled the United States in an attempt to avoid her trial and therefore justice – a justice that is owed as much to the victims of Ms. Torres’ crime as it is their respective families and friends. Although I understand that Ms. Torres enjoys certain protections as a Brazilian National under your Constitution, I respectfully request that you nonetheless allow Ms. Torres to be extradited to the United States to face trial in Florida for the crimes she is accused of. Not only will justice be served, a concern I know you share with all of us who champion the rule of law, but it will serve to enhance diplomatic relations between our two countries. Brazil is increasingly becoming isolated in the Western Hemisphere as it insists on refusing to extradite its citizens who stand accused of violent crimes. Indeed, two of the more important pillars of our diplomatic relations are that of fair dealing and good faith. The foundation of these pillars is eroded when Brazilian authorities work to shield a Brazilian National from a justice that all parties know is true and deserved. I thank you for your time and consideration of my request, and look forward to a prompt response. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Cc: Mr. Ernesto Araujo, Deputy Chief of Mission Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.22.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking the 42nd anniversary of the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision in Roe v. Wade: “Today marks the 42nd anniversary of the Supreme Court’s landmark ruling in Roe v. Wade, establishing a woman’s constitutional right to reproductive health. I stand with the 70 percent of Americans that believe that women, in conjunction with their doctors, should be able to make choices about their personal medical decisions. “Since the inception of the 114th Congress just 19 days ago, House Republicans have rushed to continue their efforts to radically undermine a woman’s constitutional right to choose. While Democrats have used this time to work vigorously to lay out a transformative economic vision for working families, Republicans continue to serve at the whim of special interests through their attack on millions of women’s legal right to healthcare, even as female members of their own party have vehemently rejected Speaker Boehner’s plans. “Today, House Republicans are rushing to the floor the misleading bill H.R. 7 to restrict how women with private insurance can spend private dollars in purchasing health insurance. This bill would withhold abortion coverage from almost all women in America, fundamentally undermining millions of women’s constitutional rights and endangering their health. It would particularly target the health of women working in small businesses, who would lose access to comprehensive health coverage. Instead of focusing on economic reforms that would benefit Americans across the nation, House Republicans are directing their energy and resources at a counterproductive and dangerous attempt to please a small minority that is out of touch with the majority of American citizens. “As we mark the anniversary of Roe v. Wade, I will work to ensure that a woman’s decisions about her health is based on her own morals, values and circumstance, and that access to safe and legal reproductive care remains readily available.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.21.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement in recognition of the fifth anniversary of the Supreme Court’s Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission ruling: “Today marks the fifth anniversary of the Supreme Court’s decision in Citizens United, which permits corporations and special interests to contribute, essentially anonymously, unlimited amounts of money to political campaigns. In the five short years since its ruling, the Court’s decision has had a catastrophic impact on the public’s faith in our nation’s democratic process. “The 2014 midterm election cycle was the most expensive in United States history with nearly $4 billion spent on campaign contributions. This unrestrained spending by large corporations and special interests stifles the voices of ordinary citizens and chips away at the very foundation of our democracy. “I remain committed to working with my colleagues in Congress to restrict the influence of big money in politics. In the first three weeks of the new legislative session, I have been a proud cosponsor of several pieces of legislation designed to limit the influence of money in our elections, including H.J.Res. 22, the Democracy for All Amendment and H.R. 20, the Government by the People Act of 2015. I will continue to fight for much needed campaign finance reforms that will promote access for hard working Americans and return transparency to our nation’s electoral system.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.20.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement in response to President Barack Obama’s State of the Union address tonight: “Over the past year, we have seen great restoration of our national economy, which has in turn provided increased opportunity and success for everyday Americans. Indeed, this is the cornerstone of the ‘American Dream,’ but this restoration has not been equitably distributed to those who are most in need. I stand with the President and my Democratic colleagues in believing that this inequality continues to be the most divisive issue of our time. “I agree with the President that it is well past time for the wealthiest one percent to pay taxes in proportion with what they earn, instead of what their high-priced lawyers and accountants finagle from an outdated and overly complex tax code. The President’s plan, asking to close the ‘trust fund loophole,’ restore the capital gains tax to its Reagan era rate, and require ‘too big to fail’ banks to pay for the risk of bailing them out, are not radical concepts, but merely a return to the policies that made this country more economically equitable in the past. “I applaud the President's plan to make our tax code fairer for hard working Americans, and agree that incentivizing hard work through targeted tax credits is a positive step in the right direction. We must increase policies that make it easier and financially possible for working families to both earn a living wage, and also care for their children. The President’s push to increase the Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit, along with his call for a “Second Earner Credit” are both positive measures as we work toward a more equitable tax code. “I also support the President’s call for federal agencies to give their employees up to six weeks paid leave after the birth or adoption of a child – and his desire to see this benefit extended to all American workers. We are stronger as a country and as a community when new parents are able to give their children the care and attention needed in the vital first few weeks of life after birth, without having to worry about losing their paychecks. As a father, I understand the challenges and financial constraints faced by many families. Paid sick and maternity leave will help American families meet those challenges. “The President has remained committed to providing the greatest opportunity for the middle class to continue to develop through education. His proposal for the “America’s College Promise,” which seeks to make two years of community college free for responsible students, shows this commitment. At the peak of our nation’s growth, we had the most educated workforce in the world. However, other nations have now matched and, in some instances, exceeded our position and it is time that we re-focus our efforts towards providing more knowledge and skills to our citizens to meet the demands of the growing global economy. Over 9 million students and their communities will benefit by saving an estimated $3,800 in tuition per year. We must acknowledge the President’s thoughtful push to educate more, as we continue to develop our nation and maintain its status as the greatest country in the world. “While much progress has been made at home, our nation continues to face many global challenges. In light of recent online attacks, we must work together to ensure the privacy of all Americans is protected against the backdrop of geo-political threats. Enhanced cyber security for the government and private companies, as well as stronger safeguards against identity theft and improved privacy protection will ensure protection from the security threats that our nation faces. “Additionally, the recent attacks in Paris serve as reminders that we must remain vigilant in the fight against those who seek to intimidate and impede our pursuit of democracy, human rights and the rule of law around the world. Now more than ever the international community must rededicate its commitment to combating violent extremism, hatred and injustice. “In this vein, I agree with the President that ISIS not only raises significant political, humanitarian and military concerns across the Middle East, but also poses a direct threat to American interests. It is our obligation to stand up for individuals committed to defending those values that have made the U.S., and other democratic nations, such vibrant societies. We must work collaboratively with our the global community to ensure that citizens of the region are able to live with dignity and freedom, while simultaneously making certain that the United States is not drawn into another protracted military endeavor in Iraq or the region. “As we rise to meet these global challenges, and as our economy continues to improve, we must ensure that the benefits of this increasing recovery are spread across all of society, and not just to those at the top. As Members of Congress, we were elected by our constituents to work together and bring stability and hope to this nation. I am determined more than ever to continue this focus on doing that we can for the American people.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation.
01.19.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement in commemoration of Martin Luther King, Jr. Day and the National Day of Service, which honor the life and legacy of the civil rights leader: “We are reminded often of the leaders that have come to shape the outlook for progressive initiatives that ultimately serve to carry our nation and the world into a more humane, equitable position than what they found. Few can argue the tremendous impact that one such individual, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., had in this regard, and we use this national holiday to symbolize the importance of the Civil Rights movement annually. “Dr. King’s message of peace, commitment to nonviolent protest, and unwavering support for equality for all has inspired many. However, we see that today there is still much to be done in the realization of his dream. “Attacks on legislation such as the Voting Rights Act and the increasing attention being paid to disturbingly disproportional acts of police aggression on people of color have reminded us that the work is far from done. We must remain vigilant against developing threats in the ongoing struggle to end discrimination and prejudice in America. “Disparities in education, employment, wealth, and social capital continue to persist among American communities of color, as millions continue to struggle with finding meaningful paths to the American Dream. “Let us look to today as inspiration in striving to realize Dr. King's dream." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.12.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) introduced the Defend Israel by Defunding Foreign Aid Act of 2015, which prohibits assistance to the Palestinian Authority (PA) until it withdraws its request to join the International Criminal Court (ICC): “Palestinian President Mahmooud Abbas’ application to join the International Criminal Court (ICC) is an affront to all of those who have engaged for years in efforts to accomplish a peaceful resolution to the decades long Israeli–Palestinian conflict. The Palestinian Authority’s anticipated war crimes complaint against Israel will, in no uncertain terms, severely hinder future comprehensive peace talks in a time when the advancement of a two-state solution that ensures enduring peace has never been more important. “For more than half a century, Israel has been America's most reliable strategic partner in the Middle East. It is essential that we remain supportive of Israel's absolute right to defend itself and protect its citizens. We cannot stand by while the Palestinian Authority, engaged in a unity government with Hamas, makes frivolous and damaging claims against Israel Defense Forces soldiers and Israeli citizens residing in settlements in the disputed West Bank. Congress must halt the $400 million American dollars sent annually to the Palestinian Authority until it withdraws its counterproductive request to join the International Criminal Court and returns to the negotiating table with Israel.” Representative Hastings' bill is the companion bill to S. 34, which was introduced by Senator Rand Paul (R-KY). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.12.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) congratulated the Lauderdale Lakes Middle School Vikings on winning the 2014-15 Broward County Middle School Athletic Association basketball championship. The team, which finished the season with a perfect 14-0 record, is sponsored by Helping Abused, Neglected, Disadvantaged Youth (HANDY), a Broward County-based agency focused on supporting at-risk youth. “I am truly honored to congratulate the undefeated Lauderdale Lakes Middle School Vikings. Under the leadership of Head Coach Bennett Wyche, Assistant Coaches Brice Callins and Johnnie Cuyler and Tournament Most Valuable Player Michael Johnson, the team excelled on the basketball court and in the classroom,” said Hastings. “Their academic accomplishments are as outstanding as their athletic and community service achievements. Nine members of the team have earned over a 3.0 GPA, over half of them are dually enrolled in high school courses and all of them are engaged in volunteer activities throughout the City of Lauderdale Lakes.” “The team’s success is a tribute to the power of collaboration. I commend Principal James F. Griffin, III for partnering with HANDY CEO Evan Goldman to ensure that these kids are supported throughout the school day and beyond. HANDY delivers tutoring, life skills, individualized educational planning, after school meals and snacks; behavioral health support, and in many cases, surrogate parenting.” “I also want to thank the Children’s Services Council of Broward County, the Community Foundation of Broward and the United Way of Broward County for supporting this incredible work. Now more than ever, our children need investments in their future. In Broward, we are fortunate to have supporters who recognize that the middle school years are vital to our students’ success. What happens during middle school will prevent high school dropouts and prevent children from becoming vulnerable to gangs, criminal activity, drugs and substance abuse.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.12.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (FL-20) made the following statement on the 5th Anniversary of the Haiti earthquake: “Five years have passed since the catastrophic 7.0 magnitude earthquake struck Haiti killing over 200,000 Haitians and affecting millions more. The horrific earthquake left the Haitian landscape strewn with ruble as the country’s infrastructure was nearly destroyed in total. “The devastation the world witnessed in Haiti five years ago led to an outpouring of humanitarian aid with nearly $13.5 billion coming into Haiti in hopes of “building back better.” However, as we look across Haiti today, we see a country still struggling to rebuild its infrastructure as it also confronts an overwhelming cholera outbreak that has affected over 720,000 Haitians and killed nearly 9,000. “We must do more for our Haitian friends. We must help them rebuild their economy, promote the rule of law and human rights, restore clean water, proper sanitation, and reliable power grids. “My thoughts and prayers remain with those families and friends who lost loved ones in the earthquake and with the families and friends who have lost loved ones to the cholera outbreak. My compassion for, and commitment to, the people of Haiti remains unbreakable. I will continue to stand with Haitian people as we all work to help them in their ongoing recovery efforts.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.07.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the tragic shooting that took place in Paris, France: “It is with deepest sympathy that I offer my thoughts and prayers to the families and friends of the 12 individuals who lost their lives as well as all those who were injured in today’s deadly attack. This was a heinous and cruel act of violence, and an incredibly dark day not only for French journalism, but for all of France. “Local authorities and rescue personnel are to be commended for their efforts to provide care to the injured and prevent further loss life, particularly the 2 law enforcement officials who gave their lives in an effort to thwart the attack. “I stand with the people of France in solidarity during this time of great sorrow. Today’s atrocious events highlight the importance of the international community’s continued cooperation in combating terrorism through steadfast dedication to preventing those who wish to intimidate those of us who seek to uphold democracy from carrying out cowardly and horrific acts such as today’s shooting.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.06.2015	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letter to the Secretary of the Department of Energy requesting that the Strategic Petroleum Reserve be filled to its maximum capacity. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter). January 6, 2015 The Honorable Ernest Moniz Secretary U.S. Department of Energy 1000 Independence Ave., SW Washington, DC 20585 Dear Secretary Moniz: The Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) plays a critical role in our country’s energy policy. Recent releases from the reserve coupled with the volatility of the global marketplace means that having a stable, reliable fuel reserve is vital for our nation’s energy independence and security. It is my understanding that while the 2005 Energy Policy Act authorized an increase in the SPR's capacity to 1 billion barrels of crude oil, to date the SPR is still only physically capable of holding 727 million barrels and will remain at that capacity. Currently the SPR contains only 687 million barrels due to both a drawdown in response to the Libyan oil curtailment of 2011 and a recent Department of Energy test sale. At the same time, crude oil prices over the last weeks have fallen as much as 28 percent to five-year lows and are predicted to remain low in the coming year. With relatively inexpensive crude oil, funding available as a result of recent sales, and available SPR capacity, it appears to be an opportune time to ensure that the SPR is filled to its maximum capacity. Furthermore, what, if anything, prevents the Department of Energy from purchasing the crude oil to do so? As you know, the Energy Policy Conservation Act provides that the Secretary may place in storage petroleum products to minimize the nation's vulnerability to a severe energy supply interruption. To my knowledge, the 30 million barrels released following the Libyan crude oil curtailment was never replenished, nor was the approximately 5 million barrels sold in the latest test sale. Thank you, in advance, for your consideration of this correspondence. I look forward to hearing from you. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.05.2015	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement in celebration of the 104th Anniversary of the founding of Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity, Inc.: “Since January 5, 1911, members of Kappa Alpha Psi, Fraternity, Inc. have exemplified excellence and achievement in every field of human endeavor. Our precious fraternity has come a long way since the days of our founders, and with hundreds of thousands of members worldwide, it has grown to be larger and more influential than even they could imagine. “From public service to the sciences to sports, we truly possess a robust network of devout men who have committed themselves to challenging the limitations of the world we live in economically, politically, and socially. Moreover, on a local level, through programs such as Guide Right and Kappa League, Brothers have had a commendable influence on the growth and development of local communities across the globe. “As we celebrate 104 years of training for leadership, I look to our next generation of Kappa men to continue the work of those who came before us. To many more years in the bond.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.22.2014	​Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement applauding the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision to deny the extension of a stay on Florida’s same-sex marriage ban, found unconstitutional by the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Florida: “I am pleased and heartened by the U.S. Supreme Court’s denial of Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi’s request that Justice Clarence Thomas, who oversees emergency appeals from Florida, extend a stay preventing the state from recognizing the marriages of gay and lesbian couples. Beginning January 6, 2015, Florida may issue same-sex marriage licenses and must recognize all same-sex marriages performed out of state. This is truly an exciting and long awaited day for all Americans. “Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi’s failed appeals to the U.S. 11th Circuit Court of Appeals and to U.S. Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas to extend the January 5, 2015 stay on U.S. District Judge Robert Hinkle’s August ruling serve as evidence that her view is not shared by a majority of Americans and represents an affront to equality for all of our nation’s citizens. “The Court’s refusal to keep the stay in place is a historic victory for gay and lesbian Americans who have endured discrimination and have, along with their families, been denied critical rights and benefits under the law for far too long. We have a responsibility to ensure that that our laws recognize the equal rights of all Americans, regardless of their sexual orientation, gender identity, or gender expression. I celebrate the Court’s decision and hope that our nation as a whole will continue to recognize the equal rights of all Americans and reflect this in our laws at the federal, state, and local levels. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.18.2014	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letter to Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi, urging her to immediately withdraw her support of the State’s ban on marriage between same-sex couples (letter attached): December 18, 2014 The Honorable Pam Bondi Attorney General State of Florida The Capitol PL-01 Tallahassee, FL 32399-1050 Dear Attorney General Bondi: Both as a citizen and a Member of Congress, I write to oppose your misguided decision to defend Florida’s ban on marriage between same-sex couples. I find it shameful that you insist on spending taxpayer money to argue on the wrong side of history, while the State of Florida continues to discriminate against gay and lesbian Americans and deny them and their families critical rights and benefits under the law. It has become increasingly clear that your view, and that of the State of Florida, is not shared by the majority of Americans. Since the historic June 26, 2013 Supreme Court decisions dismissing California’s Proposition 8 and ruling as unconstitutional Section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA), 35 states across our great nation, as well as the District of Columbia, have recognized the freedom of committed same-sex couples to marry. Furthermore, in 10 additional states, judges have also ruled in favor of marriage equality. They include Chief Circuit Judge Luis M. Garcia of Florida’s 16th Judicial Circuit, Judge Sarah Zabel of Florida’s 11th Judicial Circuit, and U.S. District Judge Robert L. Hinkle of the Northern District of Florida, who have all ruled the State’s same-sex marriage ban unconstitutional. Your failed appeal to the U.S. 11th Circuit Court of Appeals and subsequent appeal to U.S. Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas to extend the January 5, 2015 stay on Judge Hinkle’s ruling serve only to delay justice, and represent an affront to equality for all Americans. Our country faces many pressing challenges, and I fail to see how denying committed same-sex couples and their families the rights and benefits of marriage creates jobs, increases access to affordable, quality health care and educational opportunities, builds infrastructure, or provides any other solution to improve the lives of Americans. In fact, it does quite the opposite by making it harder for these individuals to realize their goals in life. The refusal of a state to even recognize the rights of same-sex couples legally married in other states constrains their ability to move freely within their own country, buy homes, and start families. As public servants, it is our duty to do everything in our power to uphold the rights of our constituents, regardless of their sexual orientation, gender identity, or gender expression. Therefore, I urge you to immediately withdraw your support of Florida’s same-sex marriage ban, and of all laws that discriminate against lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) individuals. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.17.2014	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement regarding the release of Alan Gross, an American aid worker imprisoned in Cuba since 2009 for working to expand internet access for the Cuban people: “After spending five long years in a Cuban prison, Alan Gross is now free to return home to his family. Both he and his family have paid an enormous personal price, and I am pleased that his unjust detainment has finally come to an end. I would like to commend my colleagues in Congress and all those who have fought tirelessly for Mr. Gross’ release in making today possible.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.10.2014	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) introduced the African Descent Affairs Act on the occasion of the United Nations’ Human Rights Day and beginning of the International Decade for People of African Descent (Legislation Attached): “The Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948 was a clarion call to the world that inspired, and continues to inspire, all of us to work together in order to establish and maintain an international standard of human rights. On the occasion of the United Nations’ Human Rights Day, I am proud to recognize the beginning of the International Decade for People of African Descent by introducing the African Descent Affairs Act. “The International Decade provides an opportunity to join efforts with countries around the globe to, over the next 10 years, develop and implement national strategies honoring the vast contributions of people of African Descent and to combat continuing issues of prejudice and discrimination such as those currently gripping our nation. My legislation seeks to improve the situation of people of African descent around the world by establishing within our State Department a Global Office of African Descent Affairs in order to establish global foreign policy and assistance strategies for people of African descent. Furthermore, it creates a fund to support anti-discrimination and empowerment efforts by African descent-led civil society organizations, and requires annual State Department human rights reports to include a section on discrimination faced by people of African descent. “As we reflect on the progress made in the promotion of human rights around the globe, we are also reminded of the work that remains to be done to ensure that fundamental rights and freedoms are protected both at home and abroad. It is my strong belief that the United States must continue to demonstrate leadership in the advancement of human rights. In doing so, we must also be honest with ourselves and acknowledge the ongoing challenges we face as a nation in upholding the human rights and civil rights of all people. We must acknowledge that we undermine rather than fortify our commitment to human rights when we allow human beings to be tortured. And we must also acknowledge that we fail in our dedication to human rights when we allow excessive force to be used against our own citizens. “It is my fervent hope that over the course of the International Decade we will bring increased attention to, and solutions for, the racism, xenophobia and countless other forms of injustice that have for far too long plagued individuals of African descent. While much progress has been made in the 55 years since the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, injustices continue to plague our nation, and indeed the world. We must embrace the challenges that lie ahead and continue to work with the global community to ensure that each and every single individual’s humanity and dignity are recognized and respected. “I encourage my colleagues to join me in recognizing and celebrating Human Rights Day, as well as the collective history and achievements made by people of African descent on the occasion of the beginning of the International Decade by supporting the African Descent Affairs Act.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.08.2014	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in response to a seven-month extension through July 1, 2015 on nuclear talks with Iran, after negotiations to reach a comprehensive deal on the country’s nuclear program by the P5+1 surpassed the self-imposed deadline of November 24, 2014: “While I agree that all efforts to secure a diplomatic solution must be continued, providing sanctions relief without considerable progress and assurances sets a dangerous precedent and threatens to eliminate the very leverage that brought Iran to the negotiating table to begin with. Moreover, as talks remain ongoing, Tehran continues to support international terrorism around the globe, most notably against the State of Israel. “I have remained committed to supporting a wide range of efforts in Congress to prevent a nuclear Iran, as well as strengthen Israel’s enduring partnership with the United States and ability to protect itself. These include the Iran Counter-Proliferation Act, Iran Sanctions Enabling Act, Iran Threat Reduction Act, Iran Refined Petroleum Sanctions Act, Iran Diplomatic Enhancement Act, and Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010, among many other pieces of legislation. “The United States must work with its allies around the world and partners in the region to hold a firm line against Iran’s acquisition of these dangerous, destabilizing weapons, while simultaneously continuing to support the Iranian people’s efforts to reform their government and uphold the rights of all citizens. And, should any further sanctions relief be on the table during the course of these continued negotiations, Congress has a duty to weigh in. I urge members of the international community to support every effort to keep pressure on the Iranian regime to dismantle its nuclear weapons program in compliance with international law.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.01.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in commemoration of Rosa Parks on the anniversary of her historic refusal to give up her bus seat to a white passenger in Montgomery, Alabama on December 1, 1955: “Fifty-nine years ago today Rosa Parks’ courageous refusal to give up her seat to a white individual on a segregated bus, and subsequent arrest, sparked a bus boycott that became one of the most significant milestones in the Civil Rights movement. It was Ms. Parks’ bravery and conviction to her cause that inspired citizens of Montgomery, Alabama to boycott bus transportation for 381 days, often times at great costs. Her actions were directly responsible for the U.S. Supreme Court’s eventual decision to ban segregation on public transportation and paved the way for the enactment of the landmark Civil Rights Act of 1964, which outlawed discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex or national origin and ended racial segregation in public facilities and accommodations. “Today as we commemorate the life and dedication of the woman often called the ‘Mother of the Modern-Day Civil Rights Movement’ let us not forget to continue to serve not only ourselves, but also our community. Nearly six decades later, injustices continue to plague our society and more work must be done to ensure that all American’s enjoy equal rights under the law. Ms. Parks’ life and legacy are truly exemplary of what an ordinary citizen with extraordinary vision can do to change the course of a nation’s history and will continue to serve as inspiration for generations to come." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.01.2014	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in commemoration of World AIDS Day and AIDS Awareness Month: “Since its establishment by the World Health Organization (WHO) in 1988, World AIDS Day has served as a call to action and a living memorial to all those whose lives have been lost to the disease across the globe. According to WHO, an estimated 39 million people have died since the first cases were reported in 1981 and 1.5 million people died of AIDS-related causes in 2013. “In the United States, more than 1.2 million people are currently living with HIV, with almost one in seven (14 percent) unaware of their infection. Furthermore, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) report that only 25 percent of Americans living with HIV are virally suppressed and successfully making it through the HIV care continuum. This means that about 825,000 people living with HIV are not receiving the full benefits of treatment, and may be unknowingly passing the virus on to others. “Treatment remains the most promising tool we have to creating an AIDS-free generation. Because of continued advancements in antiretroviral drugs and efforts to link individuals to care, more people living with HIV are able to manage the disease and lead active, productive lives. If we can increase the number of individuals living with HIV who are on treatment, then we can achieve global AIDS control. “Ultimately, however, the future is in our hands. We know how to stop the transmission of HIV and help people living with AIDS stay as healthy as possible. It starts with raising public awareness, knowing your status, and challenging the stigma that prevents so many within our communities from accessing the care they need. “As we look to the start of the 114th Congress, it is imperative that we remain committed to continuing the fight against HIV/AIDS, and address the ongoing effects of sequestration on HIV care in the United States. I urge my colleagues to join me in recognizing World AIDS Day and AIDS Awareness Month, as well as supporting vital HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment, and care programs, including the Ryan White Program and Affordable Care Act (ACA).” Congressman Hastings is a staunch advocate for the HIV/AIDS community and a member of the Congressional HIV/AIDS Caucus. He continues to support robust funding for the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) and the Global Fund, the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program, AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP), Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA) Program, Minority HIV/AIDS Initiative, and National AIDS Strategy, as well as HIV/AIDS research. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.27.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in recognition of Thanksgiving: “Thanksgiving gives us a chance to spend time with our family and friends, as well as to reflect on all that we have to be thankful for. In the midst of this holiday season and as the end of the year approaches, it is important to keep in perspective our accomplishments, while remaining steadfast in our determination to take on the challenges that we still face. “Too often, progress is overshadowed by politics. But our efforts make a real difference in people’s daily lives all across our nation. Because of health care reform, 10 million people who did not have health insurance this time last year now receive the vital coverage that they need and deserve. Furthermore, our economic recovery continues, with the unemployment rate falling below 6 percent for the first time since before the financial crisis. And, more and more states – now 32 in total – have embraced marriage equality. “However, as a nation, our work is far from over. As we continue working to create jobs, make education more affordable and accessible, and protect the rights of the most vulnerable in our society, let us be thankful for our blessings and remember those who are less fortunate. I wish you and your loved ones a safe and Happy Thanksgiving.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.18.2014	Congressional Homelessness Caucus Co-Chairs Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX) made the following statement highlighting National Hunger & Homelessness Awareness Week, which is held the week before Thanksgiving: “This Thanksgiving as many of us prepare to spend the holiday with family let us not forget the millions homeless individuals and families that will go hungry with no home to call their own,” said Congressman Hastings. “Each year, we set aside the week before the Thanksgiving to mark National Hunger and Homelessness Awareness Week. Though progress has been made in reducing hunger and homelessness, we must remain diligent to ensure that every American has access to the most basic human needs. The issue of homelessness is exacerbated by the high rate home foreclosure and socio-economic difficulties faced by many of our working poor. I will continue to work to bring renewed attention to the ending hunger and homelessness in America, through outreach, advocacy and creation of public policy to protect this venerable population. Collectively, the Congressional Homeless Caucus will continue to make progress in ensuring that all Americans have food to eat and permanent shelter over their heads.” “Homelessness is a multifaceted issue that can affect individuals and families of all backgrounds,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “It is an issue that transcends all Congressional districts or political boundaries, and can severely impact the lives of individuals and families indefinitely. In addition to the difficulties homeless individuals face on a daily basis, homelessness has also put tremendous financial pressure on municipalities all across the United States, as the state provides police and medical assistance to individuals left to fend for themselves on the streets. While steps taken by the Federal Strategic Plan have been extremely positive, there is more that Congress can do.” ABOUT: National Hunger & Homelessness Awareness Week is held each year the week before Thanksgiving. This is a time for us all to start to think about what we are thankful for, and a perfect time to share our compassion with our neighbors who are experiencing homelessness. This year, National Hunger & Homelessness Awareness Week is held from November 15-23, 2014. For more information, please visit: http://nationalhomeless.org/about-us/projects/awareness-week/ Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.18.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement regarding an attack on a synagogue in Jerusalem, which took the lives of four individuals, including three Americans, as well as left six people wounded: “Today’s vicious attack on a Jerusalem synagogue is an affront to peace and our common humanity. The four individuals murdered, Rabbi Moshe Twersky, Rabbi Aryeh Kupinsky, Rabbi Avraham Shmuel Goldberg, and Rabbi Kalman Levine, were faith leaders in their community. It is truly a sad day when places of worship become the target of such acts of hate and terror. “The people of Israel deserve to live in peace – free from fear and the perpetual threat of violence. Today’s senseless crime, like the several deadly stabbings and vehicle incidents in recent weeks, will not be tolerated. Extremism represents a growing danger to nations all around the world, and the United States will continue to stand with its ally Israel in the face of attacks on its borders and people. “My thoughts and prayers are with the families and friends of the victims during this great time of sadness. It is my sincere hope that their sacrifice and faith through example will bring the Israeli people together in spirit and healing.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.12.2014	Today, Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) introduced a resolution honoring Malala Yousafzai on receiving the 2014 Nobel Peace Prize for her commitment to advancing gender equality in education (Legislation Attached): “At age 17, and the youngest Nobel laureate in history, Malala Yousafzai has distinguished herself as a courageous and tireless activist for global equality in education despite being met with great adversity. After surviving a 2012 assassination attempt by Taliban gunmen while on her way to school, she has emerged as a leading and outspoken advocate for gender equality in education. “To date, approximately 13 million school age girls in Ms. Yousafzai’s home country of Pakistan remain deprived of an education where girls’ schools continue to be targeted by militants. This resolution not only celebrates Malala Yousafzai’s contributions to education equality and congratulates her on receiving the 2014 Nobel Peace Prize, but also reaffirms support for the safety and education of children all around the globe.” Joining Congressman Hastings as original co-sponsors of the resolution are Representatives (13): James McGovern (D-MA), Corrine Brown (D-FL), Frederica S. Wilson (D-FL), Gregory Meeks (D-NY), Charles Rangel (D-NY), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Robert Scott (D-VA), Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI), Lois Frankel (D-FL), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Curt Clawson (R-FL), and Kathy Castor (D-FL). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.12.2014	Today, Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) introduced a resolution honoring Kailash Satyarthi on receiving the 2014 Nobel Peace Prize for his contributions to the protection of children’s rights and the promotion of peace (Legislation Attached): “In his 34 years as a children’s rights advocate and social activist, Kailash Satyarthi has saved over 80,000 children from forced labor, has vigorously worked to call international attention to the scourge of same by spearheading global initiatives, and has been instrumental in launching local programs to teach trades to Indian youth and rescue girls sold into abusive forced marriages. His courageous and tireless efforts to combat child labor, forced servitude and human trafficking are deserving of recognition. “This resolution not only celebrates Kailash Satyarthi’s commitment to ending child labor and human trafficking around the globe and congratulates him on receiving the 2014 Nobel Peace Prize, but also emphasizes that violations of human rights in general, and the abuse of children specifically, are matters of legitimate concern to all nations.” Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors of the resolution are Representatives (8): James McGovern (D-MA), Corrine Brown (D-FL), Frederica S. Wilson (D-FL), Gregory Meeks (D-NY), Charles Rangel (D-NY), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Robert Scott (D-VA), and Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.11.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) issued the following statement in observance of Veteran’s Day: “As we celebrate Veteran’s Day, let us honor those men and women who have served in the United States Armed Forces. Their courage and sacrifice have not only protected and advanced the freedoms of Americans, but peoples all around the world. “We must not forget that these men and women – who have risked their lives for their country – endure physical wounds, traumatic brain injury, or mental health illnesses such as PTS when they return home. It is our duty as a nation to ensure that our wounded warriors receive the respect and care they so rightly deserve. Let us also remember the alarming and unacceptable number of 67,000 veterans who remain homeless. “Our service members deserve our deepest gratitude for their enduring sacrifice, and I will continue to work tirelessly to support the rights of veterans and their families. As a Member of Congress since 1993, I have worked diligently to protect the interests of military personnel and help veterans when returning from the battlefield. Please join me in thanking our veterans today, and extend a helping hand in any way that you can.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.10.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on President Obama’s nomination of Loretta Lynch to serve as the next Attorney General of the United States: “I applaud President Obama’s decision to nominate Loretta Lynch to serve as the next Attorney General of the United States, who if confirmed, will be the first African American woman to hold the position. Throughout her varied and impressive career as a federal prosecutor, in private practice, and as the current U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of New York, she has distinguished herself as a proven leader and a champion of fair and equal justice. “I have no doubt that Loretta Lynch has the experience and commitment required to excel as the nation’s chief law enforcement officer, and join in congratulating her on her nomination. I am hopeful that the Senate will undergo a swift confirmation process and look forward to working with her.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.30.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the latest lawyers to flee Speaker Boehner’s toxic lawsuit: “As I predicted in the Rules Committee when Speaker Boehner proposed this political stunt to quiet the extremist end of his caucus, House Republicans cannot find any credible lawyers willing to take up their lawsuit against President Obama, even for $500 an hour. “That two firms have already quit on them in a town as partisan and divided as Washington tells you how little merit there is in this whole debacle. Republicans have deliberately hamstrung our economic recovery with their political games. It’s time for them to quit wasting taxpayer time and money. It’s time for Congress to get back to the business of leading this nation.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.24.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in celebration of United Nations Day, which commemorates the anniversary of the establishment of the United Nations in 1945: “Celebrated on October 24th each year, United Nations Day marks the anniversary of the creation of the United Nations in 1945 with the ratification of its founding document, the UN Charter. Since its inception 69 years ago, the United Nations has worked tirelessly to implement international peacekeeping initiatives; provide conflict prevention and humanitarian assistance; promote democracy, human rights and gender equality on a global scale; and employ myriad other initiatives ranging from disaster relief to counter-terrorism. “As the Ranking Democratic Member of the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe (Helsinki Commission), I am acutely aware of the challenges that many countries face and of the urgent need for the international community to address issues of violence, sustainable development, and health while helping foster freedom and tolerance. The importance of the UN’s work has never been more relevant as our world deals with multiple crises – from the ongoing ISIS threat to the spread of the Ebola virus. On this United Nations Day, I commend the UN for its continued commitment to maintaining international peace and promoting social progress, improved living standards, and human rights.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.21.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the U.S. Supreme Court decision to allow Texas to enforce its restrictive voter ID law in next month’s elections: “I am deeply disturbed by the Supreme Court’s order permitting Texas to implement its new voter ID law. The Court’s decision, released early Saturday morning, marks the first time in more than two decades that it has permitted a law restricting citizens’ access to the voting booth to be enforced after a federal court found that law unconstitutional because of its intentional discrimination against minorities. “The law requires registered voters to show one of seven types of photo identification to cast a ballot in November’s election, a measure which may prevent over 600,000 individuals from voting for lack of accepted identification. A sharply disproportionate percentage of those voters are African-American or Hispanic. I find this incredibly troubling. We should be making it easier for Americans to vote, not harder. “Any law that limits the ability of certain groups to vote undermines our nation’s electoral process. The enforcement of Texas’ voter ID law before its merits are determined to be constitutional undercuts the very principals and efforts the Voting Rights Act was enacted to protect by limiting ballot access to minority voters. Its implementation is a step backward in the fight to create an open and transparent electoral process for all Americans.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.20.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement regarding the recent announcement by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to create in 2015 a Haitian Family Reunification Parole Program in order to expedite the issuance of residency visas for those Haitians who have already been approved to join their family members in the United States, and whose visa priority dates will become current within two years. Complete information on the program is available through U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. “Due to annual caps, more than 100,000 Haitians with approved family-based petitions remain on waiting lists of up to more than 12 years in Haiti. In creating a Haitian Family Reunification Parole Program next year, the Obama administration has reaffirmed its commitment to reuniting Haitian families, saving lives, and accelerating Haiti’s recovery efforts following the devastating 2010 earthquake. This will not only help ensure that migration from Haiti is safe and legal, but strengthen Haitian families and provide them with greater opportunities to succeed. “Throughout my lifetime of public service, I have always been committed to protecting the rights of Haitians. As a federal judge and now Member of Congress, I have worked over the past several decades to reverse the double-standard policies that so often confront our nation’s Haitian community. Most recently, on May 30, 2014, I was proud to send along with Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart and 61 other Members of Congress a letter to President Obama, urging him to direct DHS to create a Haitian Family Reunification Parole Program. “I would like to thank my colleagues in the South Florida Congressional delegation, community leaders, and grassroots organizations in Haiti for their continued advocacy and support of this critically important program. It is my sincere hope that it will be expanded, so that all Haitians with approved petitions may join their families in the United States as soon as possible.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.16.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in support of Spirit Day, a day designated to show support for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) youth: “Please join me today in going purple to express support for members of the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) youth community on this Fourth Annual Spirit Day. Established in 2010, Spirit Day has become a nationally observed day of support for LGBT youth and demonstrates our commitment to taking a stand against bullying. “Eight out of 10 LGBT youth report being bullied, a phenomenon that is undoubtedly made worse by our society’s reliance on electronic technology. Studies demonstrate a direct link between harassment and bullying of LGBT youth and high rates of absenteeism, academic underachievement and adverse health consequences. Even more tragic, when left unaddressed, such harassment has led to dangerous circumstances for teens including the suicide deaths of four gay teenagers within the span of only several weeks in 2010. These statistics are both alarming and disheartening. There is no place for intolerance and discrimination in our nation’s schools and workplaces. “I have long fought to end discrimination against LGBT individuals as it is my strong belief that all people deserve to be treated with dignity and live free from fear of discrimination and harm, particularly our nation’s youth. I proud to be an original co-sponsor of the Safe Schools Improvement Act, which requires schools across the country to institute policies that ban bullying and ensure that all students are protected from targeted harassment based on their race, gender, real or perceived sexual orientation, and any other basis, and a member of the Congressional Anti-Bullying Caucus. I applaud all of the teachers, workplaces, celebrities, media outlets and students across the country who have chosen to participate in going purple today on social media or by wearing purple, a color that symbolizes spirit on the rainbow flag. It is endeavors like these that help to ensure that violence and harassment in our schools will one day be a relic of the past. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.10.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in support of National Minimum Wage Day, designated as a day to raise awareness for the need to increase the minimum wage to $10.10: “The value of the minimum wage today is more than 30 percent less than it was in 1968, leaving millions of hardworking Americans in poverty. The time for action is long overdue. “A full-time minimum wage worker earns only $15,080 a year, making it nearly impossible to support a family and save for the future. Raising the national minimum wage to $10.10 would return it to close to its 1960s inflation-adjusted value and permit millions of additional workers to independently support their families. For these reasons, I am proud to support the Fair Minimum Wage Act of 2013, which would do just that over the next three years. “An increase from $7.25 to $10.10 per hour will bolster our economy by creating an additional 85,000 jobs and generating a total of $35 billion in increased compensation for working families and approximately $22 billion in increased economic activity for business. Congress must pass this legislation without any further delay and give millions of American workers a raise they rightly deserve.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.08.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in support of Latina Equal Pay Day, which highlights the gender wage gap between men and women, which is especially evident for Latina women: “Over 50 years have passed since the Equal Pay Act was enacted. And yet, equal pay for equal work still ceases to be a reality for all Americans. On average, women earn only 77 cents for every dollar paid to their male counterparts, regardless of race. The disparity for Latina women is even larger, who on average earn a mere 56 cents for every dollar made by similarly situated non-Hispanic men. Accordingly, to earn what the average non-Hispanic man made in the year before a Latina woman must work more than 21 months until October 8. This wage discrepancy amounts to an annual loss of $23,279. “This congress, I am a proud co-sponsor of the Paycheck Fairness Act and the Fair Minimum Wage Act, two bills that would take significant steps to improve pay equity and increase penalties on employers paying discriminatory wages, however more must be done to ensure that all women can participate fully and equally in our economy. For these reasons, I am also proud to support When Women Succeed, America Succeeds, the Democratic agenda aimed at addressing the most pressing economic issues facing women and minorities in our nation today. This agenda highlights the need for realizing paycheck fairness, investing in job training and employment opportunities for women, improving workers rights through family and maternity leave, and raising the minimum wage. These initiatives are an essential part of ensuring wage and employment equality for women. I pledge to continue working towards this important goal. As we mark Latina Equal Pay Day, I once again reiterate my commitment to working to end wage discrimination in our country once and for all.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.08.2014	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (FL-20), along with Representatives Ted Deutch (FL-21), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), and Lois Frankel (FL-22), sent the following letter to Broward County Superintendent Robert W. Runcie, urging him to work with parents, educators, and community leaders to prevent human trafficking in schools. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter). October 8, 2014 Mr. Robert W. Runcie Superintendent of Schools Broward County Public Schools 600 SE Third Avenue Fort Lauderdale, FL 33301 Dear Superintendent Runcie: We write to bring to your attention an issue of deep concern that threatens the safety and well-being of young people living in South Florida: human trafficking. This reprehensible crime is taking place right in our community, with children an average of 12 years old entering prostitution. Parents, educators, law enforcement, social service providers, and local officials must work together to prevent human trafficking in our schools through education and help victims break the cycle of coercion. According to the Broward Human Trafficking Coalition (BHTC), the leading non-profit agency in Broward County committed to addressing human trafficking, 77 percent of children trafficked from January to April 2014 were community children. Furthermore, as members of the Congressional Caucus on Foster Youth, we were particularly troubled to learn that 23 percent of children trafficked were dependent children (in foster care). Sadly, the majority of human trafficking victims are underserved young persons who are least likely to receive the treatment and care that they need. Of those trafficked in Broward County, the Broward Sheriff’s Office (BSO), Child Protective Investigations Section (CPIS), and Juvenile Assessment Center (JAC) report that: • 77 percent of children have a Department of Juvenile Justice (DJJ) delinquent history; • 87 percent of children have a runaway history; • 83 percent of children have current substance/alcohol abuse history; and • 83 percent of children have a prior abuse history. We have a responsibility as a community to protect our most vulnerable. No young person should have to experience the emotional and physical trauma of abuse, including trafficking and other coercive practices. We must do more to prevent students from becoming victims through early intervention, and linking to support services when necessary. As we are sure you will agree, it is of the upmost importance that we get parents, educators, and the entire community involved in the prevention of sexual abuse and trafficking. Please join us in moving the discussion forward on how we can best address this alarming issue. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Theodore E. Deutch Member of Congress Debbie Wasserman Schultz Member of Congress Lois Frankel Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.06.2014	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings made the following statement on the U.S. Supreme Court decision to deny review of rulings in support of marriage equality for states within the Fourth, Seventh, and Tenth Circuit Courts: “With today’s decision, the U.S. Supreme Court has effectively upheld the ruling by circuit courts all across the country that banning same-sex marriage is unconstitutional. As a result, gay and lesbian Americans in Indiana, Oklahoma, Utah, Virginia, and Wisconsin will soon be able to legally marry. The decision will also likely apply to same-sex couples in Colorado, Kansas, North Carolina, South Carolina, West Virginia, and Wyoming, which would increase the number of marriage equality states to 30, plus the District of Columbia. “Never before in our nation’s history have LGBT individuals experienced this level of recognition and protection under the law, and we should take great pride in that. It is because of the tireless efforts, personal sacrifices, and loving spirit of countless individuals past and present that we have come this far, and together we will advance the cause of equality even further. Now is the time for Congress to take action and pass the Respect for Marriage Act and Employment Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA). Regardless of the state that they live in, LGBT Americans and their families deserve just and fair treatment under the law.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.01.2014	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings made the following statement recognizing October as the Domestic Violence Awareness Month. "Each year, the month of October is dedicated to recognizing the survivors and their families, who have suffered domestic violence, as well as those who work every day to eliminate violence and abuse in America. Twenty years ago, Congress passed the Violence against Women Act, which was signed into law on September 13, 1994. I was a proud cosponsor and supporter for this landmark piece of legislation and for its reauthorization. Although the law has been highly successful in combating domestic violence, our efforts are far from over. "Unfortunately, domestic violence is still too common in the United States as one four women are subjected to domestic violence throughout the course of their lifetimes. According to the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence, over 1.3 million women and over 800,000 men experience domestic violence annually. "This year’s Domestic Violence Awareness Month represents an important opportunity to continue to eliminate domestic violence, especially after domestic violence made national headlines with Ray Rice and the NFL. I stand committed to working towards fully eliminating domestic violence and helping those who have suffered from domestic violence." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.24.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement to welcome the beginning of the Jewish New Year, Rosh Hashanah, which begins at sundown tonight: “As my friends in the Jewish community mark the beginning of Rosh Hashanah, I would like to take this opportunity to offer my warmest wishes for good health, happiness, and peace in the New Year. While we may live in an uncertain world, the coming year offers us a chance to make a positive difference for the future. Let us celebrate our blessings and remember those affected by struggle or conflict. Shana tovah.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.23.2014	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letters to House Speaker John Boehner and President Barack Obama renewing calls on Congress to return to Washington in order to address the threat posed by the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). (Please find below and attached a copy of the letters). September 23, 2014 The Honorable John A. Boehner Speaker U.S. House of Representatives H-232 The Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Boehner: In the early hours of September 23, 2014, the United States led coalition partners in an airstrike campaign in Syria. This marked a new chapter in the ongoing struggle to defeat the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), which poses a direct threat to the lives of Americans and peoples all around the world. However, I remain deeply concerned by the continued lack of broader Congressional authorization of our nation’s military operations with regard to ISIL. To this end, as I did on August 14, 2014, I must once again respectfully call upon you to bring the U.S. House of Representatives back into session so that we may meet our constitutional responsibility under Article I to address the nature, duration, and scope of these and future activities. As Members of Congress, we have a duty to ensure that the United States does not enter a conflict without appropriate deliberation or debate. We abdicate this responsibility when we do not exercise full oversight of our military commitment. In particular, the Administration’s reliance on the Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Terrorists (AUMF) for our country’s ongoing military operations within Syria raises many questions. The AUMF was born from the need to take immediate and bold action to respond to the horrific terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001. The time has come for Congress to reassert its constitutional role in committing our military resources to global conflicts, and specifically examine whether the President’s strategy in Iraq and Syria necessitate additional Congressional authorization. Reasonable minds will disagree as to what the fate of the 2001 AUMF ought to be, and reasonable minds may very well disagree as to what military operations, if any, we ought to take to address the ongoing threat posed by ISIL, but in order for such disagreements to occur we must first provide the forum for such discussions. As demonstrated by Article I Section 8, the appropriate forum is Congress. The appropriate time is now. I thank you for your time and consideration of my request and ask for a prompt response. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress September 23, 2014 The Honorable Barack H. Obama President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama: I write to inform you that I sent the attached letter to Speaker Boehner today, calling on him, as I did on August 14, 2014, to bring the U.S. House of Representatives back into session so that we may address the nature, duration, and scope of our nation’s military operations to defeat the ongoing threat posed by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). The situation in both Iraq and Syria on a political, humanitarian and military level grow increasingly dire, and we may very well have a duty to meet these difficulties with force along with any number of other strategic responses. However, Congress has a duty to discuss these issues and act accordingly under the United States Constitution and the War Powers Resolution. We must also reexamine the relevancy of the Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Terrorists (AUMF) with regard to the current U.S. airstrikes in Syria and future military operations to address ISIL. The AUMF was born from the need to take immediate and bold action to respond to the horrific terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001. The time has come, however, for Congress to fulfill its constitutional role in committing our military resources to global conflicts, and specifically examine whether the required strategy in Iraq and Syria necessitates additional Congressional authorization. I certainly appreciate your timely attention to the complex and difficult situation unfolding in Iraq and Syria, and want you to know that I am eager to facilitate a resolution to the current crisis by making sure that the United States exercises the full might of its democracy to achieve the best outcome for the American people and all those threatened by ISIL. I thank you for your time and attention to this matter. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.19.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the third anniversary of the repeal of ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,’ the 1993 law that banned open service by gay and lesbian Americans in the military: “Three years ago, our nation committed to history the discriminatory law known as ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell.’ And three years later, gay and lesbian Americans in uniform continue to serve – as they have always done – bravely and selflessly. The difference is that they are no longer forced to hide who they are, whom they love, or led to believe that their contributions do not matter. “It is difficult for me to comprehend that, in the 17 years that we debated the repeal of ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,’ the military discharged thousands of talented and dedicated patriots. What is not surprising, however, is the fact that the repeal of ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ did not undermine the effectiveness of our armed forces, as predicted by its supporters. Although our military continues to face many challenges, including the proper recognition of trans service members, I believe that it is a more inclusive one than it was just three years ago. “We should all remember the lessons learned from ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ as we seek to affirm and protect the rights of all Americans. To all who serve, thank you for your service.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.18.2014	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement to mark the grand opening of the new 8,000 foot-long south runway at Hollywood-Fort Lauderdale International Airport (FLL): “Hollywood-Fort Lauderdale International Airport’s new south runway is a gamechanger for South Florida and the entire region. I am proud to have been a part of a broad coalition of community leaders that worked over the past several years to secure the support necessary to realize this project. With nearly $250 million in federal funding and additional state resources, the new runway is a prime example of investing in our nation’s infrastructure to create new economic opportunities. It has already created over 10,500 new jobs and will inject $1.42 billion into the local and national economy. Furthermore, the increased airline traffic capacity will improve efficiency and the passenger experience, while also fostering greater tourism, trade, and local manufacturing.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.18.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement regarding the 13th anniversary of the Authorization for Use of Military Force of 2001: “Thirteen years ago, the Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) was signed into law by President George W. Bush. “The AUMF authorized the President to use all necessary force against those nations, organizations, or persons he determined planned, authorized, committed, or aided the terrorist attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, or those who harbored such organizations or persons. “What started as legislation to bring those responsible for the attacks of September 11, 2001 to justice, has now been used to rationalize turning the entire globe into a potential field of battle, and allows the President to act without accountability against anyone he deems a threat. The AUMF commits the United States to a posture of endless war against anyone, anywhere. “On this anniversary, and as we face a new complex threat from ISIS, I take this opportunity to renew my call for the need to allow Congress to exercise its Constitutional responsibility, putting more traditional war-powers restraints on presidential authority while retaining his ability to protect the nation’s security and act against imminent threats.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.17.2014	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (FL-20) congratulated Michael and Susan Farver of Plantation, Florida on receiving the 2014 Angels in Adoption Award. Hastings nominated the Farver’s for the award given by the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute’s (CCAI) Angels in Adoption™ Program: “I was truly honored to nominate Michael and Susan Farver for the 2014 Angels in Adoption Award. They have worked to pave the way for relative caregivers to be able to put the welfare of the child first,” said Hastings. “Furthermore, the Farver’s continue to dedicate themselves to making a difference in the lives of those less fortunate, especially at-risk and neglected children in poverty. They spent over $200,000 in a two-year struggle fighting their way through the foster care and dependency courts of Florida to protect, save, and finally adopt their own grand-daughter, which must be commended. “As a member of the Congressional Foster Youth Caucus, I am committed to the safety, well-being, and outcomes of these children. Too often, children who linger in foster care and the youths who age out of the child welfare system are burdened with the implication that they are damaged. While these young people have indeed been on the receiving end of abuse, abandonment, or neglect, they are survivors with their need to be loved and accepted. “The Angels in Adoption Award is a great way to recognize ‘Angels’ from all over the nation who have selflessly committed themselves to helping children in need find a loving family.” MICHAEL AND SUSAN FARVER/ANGELS IN ADOPTION AWARD: Taking the lessons from their own experience, Michael and Susan Farver have fought to better the lives of others facing similar daunting and seemingly overwhelming challenges. Collectively, the two have spent nearly a decade fighting to make the adoption and foster care systems more responsive to the needs of children. In July of 2009, Susan founded Kids Have Rights, Inc, a nonprofit organization that advocates and supports programs, services, legislation, foster care and dependence initiatives that ensure the right to a safe and nurturing childhood. She also serves as an advisor to the Kinship Initiative Council, which is a partnership between various Broward County health systems and Legal Aid that assists families living in kinship settings. Michael serves as President of the Board of Directors of Florida Impact, a leading legislative public policy advocacy organization in the state. In his role he has coordinated over 150 public, private, and faith-based organizations in the Florida Partnership to End Childhood Hunger to provide millions of meals to the children of Florida over the past 6 years. Furthermore, he is the founder and President of End Childhood Hunger, a nonprofit advocacy organization formulating childhood hunger solutions, and serves on the Board of Directors of Women in Distress of Broward County and the South Florida Hunger Coalition. The couple was among 123 Angels in Adoption that were recognized by CCAI. This program honors those that have made extraordinary contributions on behalf of children who are in need of families and a loving and supporting home environment. These Angels are true heroes – individuals, couples, and organizations – hailing from all 50 states, including the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico, who traveled to Washington, DC this week to participate in training events, legislative seminars, advocacy fairs, and a culminating Gala celebrating their achievements in raising awareness to the adoption and foster process. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.12.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the 20th anniversary of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA): “When the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) of 1994 was enacted, we took a historic step forward in addressing sexual assault, domestic and dating violence, stalking and other forms of violence against women. This legislation established new criminal and civil enforcement tools for holding perpetrators accountable and provided victims with the ability to seek justice and have access to a network of support options. I was extremely proud to be an original co-sponsor of VAWA and vote in favor of the legislation. “While much has been accomplished, it is clear that more must be done. On this 20th anniversary, I believe that we must continue to raise public awareness of the importance of VAWA, and uphold our nation’s promise to protect victims of domestic abuse, sexual assault and abuse.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.11.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in commemoration of the 13th anniversary of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001: “On this solemn anniversary, we pay tribute to the victims of the World Trade Center, the Pentagon, and United 93 in Shanksville, Pennsylvania. My thoughts and prayers remain with the friends and family of the nearly 3,000 people whose lives were lost in these heinous attacks. “We also take this moment to remember and honor the sacrifices made by our heroes – the first responders, fire fighters, police officers, and everyday citizens – who gave their lives to save their fellow Americans. The events that transpired that day will forever be remembered as one of the darkest days in American history, and the greatest tragedy in recent years. “Over the past 13 years, we have worked diligently to bring al-Qaeda and other extremist groups to justice for their crimes, as well as detect and prevent terrorist attacks of all types. In particular, I would like to recognize the men and women of our nation’s military, law enforcement, and intelligence community, who work tirelessly to defend our nation and our way of life. “Today is a day of prayer and reflection for those we have lost, but it is also a day for looking forward towards the future with hope. As we remember the victims and their loved ones, we remain steadfast in our commitment to eliminating hate, extremism, and violence across the globe.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.10.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on President Barack Obama’s address regarding the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS): “This evening, the President outlined his strategy for combating ISIS, the extremist group that brutally claimed the lives of American journalists James Foley and Steven Sotloff. The situation is becoming increasingly dire and complex as ISIS continues to terrorize the people of Iraq, and works to expand its influence in the region. We cannot ignore the fact that, confluent with the ongoing Syrian crisis, the situation in Iraq raises pressing questions of political, humanitarian, and military concern. “There is no doubt that ISIS poses a direct threat to American interests and stability across the Middle East. However, no single action is enough to contain and degrade ISIS. It will take a collaborative effort led by the Iraqi Government with support from the United States, regional partners, and the broader international community. “As Members of Congress, it is our duty to make sure that our nation is not drawn into another protracted military campaign in Iraq. On August 14, 2014, I wrote to House Speaker John Boehner, as well as President Obama, requesting that Speaker Boehner call Congress back into session in order to discuss these issues and act accordingly under the United States Constitution and War Powers Resolution. I again urge the President to allow Congress to exercise its Constitutional responsibility to address the ISIS threat.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation ###
09.02.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the reported death of American journalist Steven J. Sotloff: “I am truly saddened and alarmed by reports of Steven Sotloff’s ruthless beheading by militants of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS) in a video posted on the internet. Just two weeks following the tragic execution of fellow American journalist James Foley, it is clear that ISIS presents a direct threat to the lives of innocent Americans, as well as peace and stability in the region. As our nation’s government and intelligence community work diligently to authenticate the video, my thoughts and prayers go out to Steven’s family during this most difficult time. The United States will not tolerate these heinous acts on its citizens.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation ###
08.14.2014	(Fort Lauderdale, FL) Today, Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), along with Representatives Ted Deutch (D-FL), Lois Frankel (D-FL) and Patrick Murphy (D-FL) sent the following letter to the Region 4 Social Security Administration Commissioner Michael W. Grochowski, expressing their concern over the closure of the West Palm Beach Social Security Administration field office. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter) August 14, 2014 Mr. Michael W. Grochowski Region 4 Commissioner Regional Public Affairs Office Social Security Administration 61 Forsyth St. SW Suite 23T29 Atlanta, GA 30303-8907 Dear Commissioner Grochowski: We write to reiterate our concerns regarding the situation at the Social Security Administration (SSA) office in West Palm Beach. We understand that you plan to vacate the current West Palm Beach office location effective Friday, August 15, 2014, and strongly urge you to prioritize the establishment of a replacement office that offers the full range of SSA services to recipients. While we recognize the importance of having office space that meets both the needs of the SSA and those with appointments at the office, the temporary closure of the West Palm Beach office is particularly alarming. This current location's closure will have a considerable impact on our constituents already enrolled in the SSA, and will result in significant burden for many attempting to enroll in or navigate the Social Security system. Given the large population of elderly and disabled persons in our districts, appointments carried out over the phone or via the internet are not readily viable options. It is paramount that we continue to ensure full access to the invaluable resources of the SSA through a physical office location in West Palm Beach. Therefore, we respectfully request that you keep us informed of the bidding process and the timeline for establishing a new full-service SSA office location in West Palm Beach. Please do not hesitate to contact our offices if we can be of assistance in expediting this process. We appreciate your prompt reply and your consideration in regards to this matter. We look forward to working with you to find a solution that addresses the needs of our communities and maintains full-service for our constituents. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Ted Deutch Member of Congress Lois Frankel Member of Congress Patrick Murphy Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.14.2014	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking the 79th anniversary of the signing of the Social Security Act into law: “For 79 years, Social Security Income (SSI) has offered financial security and peace of mind to millions of Americans. In Florida’s 20th district alone, nearly 120,000 thousand people receive more than $1.5 billion in Social Security benefits every year. SSI is a critical support system for them and millions of other Americans, and is also a primary source of income for a majority of elderly Americans and disabled veterans. “I continue to aggressively defend Social Security against Republican attempts to privatize our nation’s primary safety net. I also strongly oppose their efforts to institute a chained formula that ties benefits to the Consumer Price Index (CPI). Both of these efforts would harm millions of America’s most vulnerable citizens, leaving their retirement savings in the hands of the very same investment funds and banks that nearly destroyed our economy, just a few years ago. As a Member of Congress, I will do all that I can to protect Social Security for beneficiaries and those who have contributed to the system.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.14.2014	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letters to House Speaker John Boehner and President Barack Obama calling on Congress to return to Washington in order to address the ongoing crisis in Iraq. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letters). August 14, 2014 The Honorable John A. Boehner Speaker U.S. House of Representatives H-232 The Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Speaker Boehner: I respectfully call upon you to bring Congress back into session so that we may meet our constitutional responsibility to address the ongoing crisis in Iraq. As you know, the situation there is becoming increasingly more complex and continues to defy easy resolution. There is no doubt that the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS) will continue to terrorize the people of Iraq, leading to an increase in the tens of thousands of Iraqi Christian, Yazidi and other refugees who have been driven from their homes. However, we in Congress have a responsibility to make sure that America is not dragged into another ongoing military endeavor in Iraq. Although the current airstrikes may have stopped ISIS momentarily, we still have a responsibility under our Article I powers to delineate and impose a timeframe for these efforts as we move forward. The situation in Iraq on a political, humanitarian and military level is increasingly dire, and we may very well have a duty to meet these difficulties with force along with any number of other strategic responses, but we certainly have a duty to meet as a body at the earliest possible date to discuss these issues and act accordingly under the United States Constitution and the War Powers Resolution. I thank you for your time and consideration of my request and ask for a prompt response. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress August 14, 2014 The Honorable Barack H. Obama President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Obama: I write to inform you that I sent the attached letter to Speaker Boehner today, calling on him to bring the U.S. House of Representatives back into session so that we may address the crisis in Iraq. The situation in Iraq on a political, humanitarian and military level is increasingly dire, and we may very well have a duty to meet these difficulties with force along with any number of other strategic responses, but we, as Members of Congress, certainly have a duty to meet as a body at the earliest possible date to discuss these issues and act accordingly under the United States Constitution and the War Powers Resolution. I certainly appreciate your timely attention to the complex and difficult situation unfolding in Iraq, and want you to know that I am eager to facilitate a resolution to the current crisis by making sure the Legislative and Executive branches of our government work in unison to achieve an acceptable outcome for the American and Iraqi people. I thank you for your time and attention to this matter. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.11.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement following the murder of Rabbi Joseph Raksin, who was shot and killed Saturday as he walked to morning services in Miami: “I was shocked, saddened, and outraged to hear of the murder of Rabbi Joseph Raksin on Saturday morning. My deepest condolences are with Rabbi Raksin’s family and friends, and all of the Miami and Brooklyn Orthodox communities. The Miami-Dade Police Department has my full support as they work to bring those responsible for this heinous act to justice. “As we wait for the facts of this tragic shooting to fully emerge, we do so knowing that the ugly face of anti-Semitism is again on the rise across the globe. Just two weeks ago, only a short distance from where Rabbi Raksin was killed, anti-Semitic graffiti was found painted on the wall of a nearby synagogue. “As our communities mourn this senseless loss, let us resolve to continue in the struggle against bigotry. Blind hatred has no place in our world, and each of us has the responsibility to make our own communities safer, more tolerant places.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.30.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after the House of Representatives voted to sue the President of the United States: “House Republicans have voted to waste more time and money advancing Speaker Boehner’s frivolous lawsuit. This bill is nothing more than an election year stunt that puts politics over governing and goes against all legal precedent. Republicans have even gone so far as to block every Democratic amendment to bring to light the true cost of this ridiculous lawsuit. “Democrats have remained focused on the issues that are important to working families, like raising the minimum wage, extending emergency unemployment benefits for more than 3.5 million people, and finding new ways to create jobs. It is time for Republicans to join us in addressing the real needs of this country.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.24.2014	​Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement marking the 5th anniversary of the last increase in the federal minimum wage and calling on Congress to pass legislation to raise the minimum wage to $10.10: “It has been five years since our nation increased the federal minimum wage. The time for action is long overdue. Hardworking families in my district and across the country deserve a raise now. “More than half of minimum wage earners work full-time and bring home 50 percent of their family’s total income on average. Yet a full-time minimum wage worker earns only $15,080 a year, making it nearly impossible to support a family and save for the future. “And, let us not forget tipped workers, who earn a federal minimum wage of just $2.13 an hour and have not seen a raise since 1991. “I am proud to support the Fair Minimum Wage Act of 2013, which will increase the federal minimum wage to $10.10, over the next three years. Congress must pass this legislation without any further delay and give 25 million American workers a raise they rightly deserve.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.24.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after the House Rules Committee voted to sue the President: “There is zero precedent for what Republicans are trying to do with this lawsuit. Contrary to what they may say, this is not about the law; it’s about appeasing the most extreme members of their party. “The Republican-led House has voted 52 times to repeal the law they now they say want to enforce. This lawsuit is nothing more than a political stunt and once again puts politics over actual governing. We can’t even call it a ‘cheap’ political stunt because Republicans refuse to tell the American people how much it will cost. “The Affordable Care Act is working. Millions of Americans now have healthcare that they are happy with. Instead of addressing the real needs of country, Republicans continue to waste precious time and money. Americans deserve better than what is coming out of this House. It is time for Speaker Boehner to be the Speaker of the House of Representatives, not the Speaker of the right-wing contingent of the Republican Party.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.18.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on Israel’s ground operation in the Gaza Strip: “Since the start of Operation Protective Edge, more than 1,000 rockets have been launched from Hamas-controlled Gaza into Israel. This escalation of violence is deeply troubling. Israel has every right to defend itself against this constant indiscriminate barrage of rockets.” “Hamas has shown its true colors, rejecting a cease fire agreement, urging Palestinians who have fled for safety to return to their homes, and using innocent families as human shields as they continue to attack Israel. I am deeply saddened by the loss of innocent civilian life on both sides of this conflict. As Israel rightfully works to secure the safety of its people, my thoughts and prayers are with the families that have suffered as a result of Hamas’ unwarranted aggression.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.18.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement praising the recent decision by Chief Circuit Judge Luis M. Garcia of Florida’s 16th Judicial Circuit to overturn the State’s 2008 ban on same-sex marriage, thereby allowing committed gay and lesbian couples to receive marriage licenses in Monroe County beginning on July 22, 2014: “It is indeed a brighter day for gay and lesbian Floridians living in Monroe County, who, following the recent court ruling, will soon be able to marry. In particular, I would like to take this opportunity to extend my heartfelt congratulations to Mr. Aaron Huntsman and Mr. William Lee Jones, the plantiffs who challenged the ban, and recognize all those who continue working to achieve full marriage equality in Florida. While many challenges remain ahead, we have seen the light at the end of the tunnel, and I reaffirm my full support for the equal rights of gay and lesbian couples nationwide.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.17.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the crash of Malaysia Airlines flight MH17: “As the details of today’s horrific plane crash come into focus, one thing is already clear. Nearly 300 people were killed when flight MH17 fell from the sky. My prayers and condolences are with the families of those who lost their lives today. As we wait for the facts to emerge, let us keep in our thoughts the victims of this terrible tragedy.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.15.2014	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement after joining the Democracy is for All constitutional amendment as an original co-sponsor. The legislation was introduced by Representatives Ted Deutch (D-FL), Donna Edwards (D-MD), and Jim McGovern (D-MA). It would reverse the highly controversial Supreme Court decisions in Citizens United v. FEC and McCutcheon v. FEC, which have given corporations and wealthy donors undue influence in our elections. Read the text of the amendment here. “The Supreme Court decisions in Citizens United and McCutcheon have set our electoral system down a dangerous path. Because of these decisions, select groups of wealthy donors, corporations, and Super PACs have the ability to pour virtually limitless amounts of money into campaigns in our country. This undue influence has driven a wedge between Congress and ordinary American families, whose voices have been drowned out by hundreds of millions of dollars in special interest money,” said Hastings. The Center for Responsive Politics reports that 114 super PACs have already spent $77.8 million during the 2014 primary election season. This amount is expected to increase sharply after the quarterly Federal Election Commission (FEC) filing deadline today. “The American people want a government that is inclusive, not exclusive,” added Hastings. “That is why I am proud to co-sponsor H. J. Res 119, the Democracy is for All amendment, which will reverse Citizens United, McCutcheon, and other decisions like them. I remain committed to advocating for fair and open elections. Congress should take action immediately to restore confidence in our nation’s campaign system.” The Center for Responsive Politics also reported that outside spending tripled between 2008 and 2012. In 2012, 216 donors contributed more than $560 million, roughly 68 percent of the more than $828 million raised by Super PACs during the year. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.10.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the escalation of violence in Israel and the Gaza Strip: “I am deeply troubled by the escalation of violence in Israel and the Gaza Strip. Hundreds of rockets have been fired into Israel from Hamas-controlled Gaza in the past week. No country should be expected to tolerate these kinds of constant indiscriminate attacks against its people, and Israel has every right to defend its citizens and borders. “The fact that Hamas has fired nearly 400 rockets into Israel in the last three days is unacceptable. Hamas must bring an immediate end to these and all other attacks against Israel. “I am also truly saddened by the loss of innocent civilian life. It is my hope that leaders in the region will come together to bring an end to Hamas’ unwarranted aggression and reach an agreement that will set both sides on a path towards peace.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.04.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in commemoration of Independence Day: “Two-hundred, thirty-eight years ago, a group of delegates who shared the belief that all men are created equal, signed a document that forged one of the greatest democracies in the world. This Fourth of July, we come together once again to celebrate the signing of the Declaration of Independence and the birth of our great nation. “I would like to take this opportunity to recognize all our active-duty military personnel, veterans, and their families for their valiant service and countless sacrifices to keep our nation safe. Recently, we celebrated the 5th anniversary of the Post-9/11 G.I. Bill, which stands as a renewed commitment to helping the brave men and women who have served our country prepare for their futures after military service and provide for their families. “As we gather with our loved ones in communities large and small, let us remember that the principles of freedom, justice, and equality that unite us are stronger than the differences that divide us. Have a safe and happy Independence Day!” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.02.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement marking the 50th anniversary of the Civil Rights Act of 1964: “Fifty years ago, on July 2, 1964, President Lyndon B. Johnson signed into law the Civil Rights Act. This landmark legislation prohibited discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. Furthermore, governments could no longer discriminate or prohibit access to public buildings, and Jim Crow laws were terminated in the South. “Over time, the Civil Rights Act would be expanded and strengthened with the passage of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, which banned racial discrimination in voting practices. Together, these two laws enshrine the principles upon which our great nation was founded, and serve as a living testament to all those who have sacrificed to bring an end to segregation and discrimination. However, as we mark the 50th anniversary of the Civil Rights Act, our nation faces the greatest threat to voting rights since Reconstruction. “On June 25, 2013, the Supreme Court ruled in the case of Shelby County v. Holder, thereby eliminating Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act. Countless individuals have fought long and hard for the right to vote, and we must not allow the clock to turn back on decades of progress. Let us restore our nation’s commitment to protecting the civil rights of all Americans by passing a strengthened Voting Rights Act.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.30.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the Supreme Court’s decision in Burwell v. Hobby Lobby: “I am deeply troubled by today’s Supreme Court decision in the Hobby Lobby case. Once again, women’s reproductive rights are under attack. “I believe that every woman should be able to make her own health care decisions. Unfortunately, the Court’s ruling has set a very dangerous precedent. “We must continue to protect women’s rights in the face of these new threats to reproductive health services, and ensure that companies not be allowed to impose their views, religious or other, on their employees.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.30.2014	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement to mark the 5th anniversary of the Post-9/11 G.I. Bill: “On June 22, 1944, our nation made a commitment to help our veterans access higher education and prepare for their futures after military service. Recently we celebrated the 70th anniversary of that promise, and today we commemorate the 5th anniversary of the Post-9/11 G.I. Bill, which was passed in 2009 to fill a growing gap in benefits. As we commemorate this important milestone, I would like to take this opportunity to recognize all our active-duty military personnel, veterans, and their families for their valiant service and countless sacrifices to keep our nation safe. “Originally known as the Serviceman’s Readjustment Act of 1944, the G.I. Bill has been serving millions of veterans since World War II. It has made going to college possible for many whom it was not an option otherwise. Within just three years of the enactment of the G.I. Bill, veterans accounted for nearly half of college admissions. “Following the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2011 and the call to service for many of America’s military, the G.I. Bill has been strengthened and expanded. Since July 2008, veterans with active-duty service on or after September 11, 2001 are offered enhanced educational benefits and a living allowance. Unused educational benefits can be used to help the spouses and children of service members, who themselves have made personal sacrifices for the benefit of our nation. “With more than 1.5 million veterans, Florida has been at the forefront of providing benefits and care to veterans. The Florida G.I. Bill waives the requirement for spouses and dependents to get a Florida driver’s license if they either get a job or enroll in a public school. Furthermore, it increases funding for the Educational Dollars for Duty (EDD) program, which seeks to help Florida National Guard members pursue a higher education. “It is crucial that the brave men and women who served our country have access to the necessary resources that will help them readjust to civilian life and succeed. I firmly believe that all Americans deserve the opportunity to achieve the American dream, and recognize pursuing a college education as a vital step towards a brighter future. The Post-9/11 G.I. Bill is just one way we can thank our service members for their service.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.30.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the deaths of the three kidnapped Israeli teens: “Words cannot truly begin to describe the sorrow I felt today when I learned of the deaths of Eyal Yifrah, Gilad Sha’er, and Naftali Frenkel. My thoughts and prayers are with the families and friends of these young men, as they mourn the loss of their loved ones. “The individuals who kidnapped and caused the deaths of these innocent teens need to be held accountable for their cruel and cowardly deeds. “I stand in support of Israel as they seek justice in finding those who are responsible for this heinous act. Let our strength of purpose in this endeavor honor the memories of Eyal, Gilad, and Naftali.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.27.2014	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement to mark the 20th Annual National HIV Testing Day: “While there is currently no cure for HIV, we can all take steps to keep ourselves and loved ones as healthy as possible. National HIV Testing Day is about taking control of your health and finding out your status. The early detection and treatment of HIV through regular testing allows people to live longer and helps prevent the spread of the virus. “HIV remains one of the most significant public health challenges of our time. Each year, we see an additional 50,000 new cases of HIV in the United States, and approximately one in six people do not know about their positive status. In particular, men who have sex with men (MSM), African Americans, Hispanics, and young people remain at greater risk for HIV. “Regular testing is one of our most powerful tools against HIV/AIDS, and so is talking about it openly. Misinformation about HIV and societal stigma keep too many individuals from getting tested and seeking out the lifesaving treatment that they may need. Currently, only 43 percent of people who test positive for HIV are in care with the virus under control. “We must work together to ensure that individuals have the knowledge, resources, and support necessary to protect their health and the health of others. Regular HIV testing empowers us to stop HIV/AIDS. The time to act is now.” As a member of the Congressional HIV/AIDS Caucus, Hastings continues working tirelessly to increase access to routine HIV testing, as well as support vital funding for the AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP), Ryan White Program, Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA) Program, and National AIDS Strategy. In the 113th Congress, he has proudly co-sponsored the HIV Organ Policy Equity Act, the Stop AIDS in Prison Act, and the Repeal Existing Policies that Encourage and Allow Legal HIV Discrimination Act. Furthermore, Hastings seeks to ensure that the needs of people living with HIV/AIDS are met within the framework of comprehensive health care reform and that our nation’s foreign aid activities support the creation of an AIDS-free generation. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.26.2014	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in commemoration of the one-year anniversary of the Supreme Court’s rulings striking down the federal Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) and California’s Proposition 8: “One year ago, the Supreme Court cases of United States v. Windsor and Hollingsworth v. Perry made civil rights history. The judges ruled 5-4 that DOMA was unconstitutional, and dismissed legal efforts to defend the Proposition 8 ban that prevented gay and lesbian couples from getting married in California. I am truly proud to join with advocates all across the country, especially Edie Windsor and the plaintiffs of Proposition 8, to celebrate the anniversary of this hardfought success. “I am heartened and encouraged by the tremendous momentum to advance lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) equality that we have seen over the past year. With the recent addition of Delaware, Hawaii, Illinois, Indiana, Maryland, Minnesota, New Jersey, New Mexico, Oregon, Pennsylvania, and Rhode Island, the number of marriage equality states has grown to 20, including the District of Columbia. Furthermore, given recent developments in Arkansas, Idaho, Utah, and Wisconsin, I am hopeful that virtually half of all Americans will soon live in a state that recognizes the equal rights and protections of committed gay and lesbian couples. “At the same time, we remember that various other discriminatory laws and policies continue to threaten the well-being of LGBT individuals and their families, including in the workplace. Together, we must keep up the pressure on House Speaker John Boehner to bring to the Floor for a vote the Employment Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA) and other legislation that will help ensure justice and fairness for all.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.25.2014	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (FL-20) made the following statement on the first anniversary of the Supreme Court’s Shelby County v. Holder decision: “The Supreme Court’s Shelby County v. Holder decision dealt a severe blow to voter protections nationwide. The Voting Rights Act (VRA) has stood as an essential safeguard against racial discrimination in our political system for decades, but Shelby County significantly undermined its effectiveness. “When it comes time for voting, voter suppression is far too prevalent throughout our country. Our nation has the obligation to make it easier for all American to vote, not more difficult. Yet, in the wake of this flawed decision, more than a dozen states have implemented new restrictions on voting since 2012 that disproportionately affect minority voters. “I am pleased to cosponsor H.R. 3899, the Voting Rights Amendment Act, which is bipartisan legislation that will address the Shelby County decision. This legislation will do much to re-extend voter protections to minority voters already feeling the effects of weakened voter protections.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.25.2014	Today, the Co-Chairs of the Congressional Homeless Caucus, Reps. Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Eddie Bernice Johnson, in conjunction with the office of Congressman John Conyers (D-MI), hosted an important briefing on violence against the homeless. “Thankfully, we have seen a decrease in the number of homeless Americans in recent years,” said Hastings. “However, those facing homelessness still face real threats from violence. My home state of Florida has long been at the top of the list of states where violence against the homeless remains a significant problem, and that needs to change. As a nation, we must do more to protect the homeless population and to foster an environment where the most disadvantaged amongst us can break the cycle of homelessness.” “Violence against homeless individuals is a problem that has no boundaries. It is a threat to our homeless men, women, and children of all backgrounds,” said Johnson. “Until we have a sound understanding of the scope and nature of the problem, we will remain unable to develop targeted solutions or draft comprehensive reform. Today's briefing is a solid step towards increased awareness of the problem. We must continue to take deliberate steps toward ending violence against our homeless population.” “It is unthinkable that more than a million people struggle with the scourge of homelessness in the world’s most prosperous nation,” added Conyers. “Even more unacceptable is the trend of violence against these individuals. Congress must act to ensure that those struggling with homelessness are not further victimized by violence. Today’s briefing will help educate and encourage members of Congress to take meaningful action on this issue.” Special guests at the briefing included Susan Sarandon (actress/activist), David Pirtle (Survivor of Violence, National Coalition for the Homeless), and Tom Morgan (Director, Storied Streets). Since 1999, the National Coalition for the Homeless (NCH) has documented more than 1,437 acts of violence against homeless individuals, 375 which resulted in death. H.R. 1136, theViolence Against the Homeless Accountability Act of 2013, introduced by Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson, is currently pending before Congress and would amend the Hate Crime Statistics Act to include crimes against the homeless in the crime data collected by the Attorney General. Congressman Hastings Speaks at the Homelessness Caucus Briefing on Violence Against the Homeless. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.25.2014	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings released the following statement marking the 76th anniversary of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA): “The Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 set a new standard for worker rights in our nation. Establishing a national minimum wage, time-and-a-half overtime pay for certain jobs, and prohibitions against child labor, the FLSA set our country on course as a land of opportunity. “Through the years, the FLSA has evolved with our growing nation, extending workplace protections to women, minorities, migrant and seasonal farm workers, as well as setting a 40-hour work week. Now, Congress must act to further protect hard-working American families. “Today, a full-time minimum-wage worker earns only $15,800 a year, making it nearly impossible to support a family and save for the future. No full-time worker should live in poverty, and I am proud to support H.R. 1010, the Minimum Wage Fairness Act, which would raise the minimum wage to $10.10 per hour. The American workforce deserves a raise. “Additionally, I am proud to support the When Women Succeed, America Succeeds agenda, which will address the most pressing economic issues facing women and minorities in our nation today. Legislation to expand paid sick leave, family, medical, and maternity leave, as well as encourage paycheck fairness are of critical importance. It is in the interest of working families that Congress address these issues immediately.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.20.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement marking World Refugee Day: “We mark this year’s World Refugee Day knowing that there are now more than 50 million people displaced across the globe, the highest number since World War II. This staggering figure demands attention and the international community must do more to stem the tide of refugees, while seeking an end to conflicts around the world. “Whether it is because of war and violence, environmental disasters, poverty, famine, or drought, millions of people across the globe are in urgent need of humanitarian aid. Additionally, conflicts like the one in Syria, where more than 160,000 people have been killed, 6.5 million displaced internally, and nearly 3 million forced to flee to neighboring countries, underscore the importance of bringing an end to global strife. “We must always remain vigilant and proactive in protecting human rights. Refugees leave because they have no choice, but we have the choice to help. As a Member of Congress and in my capacity as Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, I will continue to advocate for refugees and all those who have been displaced across the globe.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.20.2014	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after President Barack Obama announced the creation of a task force to promote the health of honey bees and other pollinators: “I am pleased that President Obama is taking the issue of pollinator loss seriously. Pollinators such as bees, birds, bats, and butterflies are vital to our food supply and the U.S. economy at large. The loss of pollinators has been severe and persistent in recent years and must be addressed. “I am a proud to champion this issue in Congress, and along with Rep. Jeff Denham (R-CA) recently introduced H.R. 4790, the Highways BEE Act. Prioritizing the creation of new habitat for pollinators is critically important and will be central to any national strategy to protect pollinators. Congress should pass this common-sense and cost-free bill right away.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.19.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the kidnapping of three Israeli students in the West Bank: “My thoughts and prayers are with Eyal Yifrah, Gilad Sha’er, Naftali Frenkel, and their families at this most difficult time. Those individuals who kidnapped these innocent teens should be held accountable for their cowardly actions. Acts of terror like this have no place in our society. I stand in support of Israel as they work to bring these brave young people home safely.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.17.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) made available $300,000 through the Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP) for farmers and ranchers in Florida to support conservation practices to help reverse the loss of pollinator food and habitat: “The Environmental Quality Incentives Program provides much needed support for conservation efforts across America. I am pleased that EQIP is proving funding the protection of pollinators in Florida. I have said it many times: no bees, no food. “We must do more to address pollinator loss and to protect the birds, bats, bees, and butterflies that pollinate our food. This issue impacts all of us and it is vital that we continue to foster local and national conservation efforts to address the loss of pollinator habitat.” EQIP is a voluntary conservation program that promotes sustainable farming and agricultural practices. The deadline to sign up is July 18, 2014. For more information or to sign up, please visit Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP) online or contact your local USDA field office in Florida. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.17.2014	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in recognition of the 8th annual National Pollinator Week, which is celebrated from June 16 - 20, 2014: “As the co-founder and co-chairman of the Congressional Pollinator Protection Caucus, I am pleased to mark this year’s National Pollinator Week. Our nation continues to see an alarming decline in pollinators and we must do more to protect the birds, bats, bees, and butterflies that pollinate our food. “Seventy-five percent of all flowering plants and vegetables rely on the transfer of pollen between flowers for fertilization, and without bees and other pollinators, our nation may face a severe shortage of food. That is why I recently introduced H.R. 4790, the Highways BEE Act, which will allow existing authorities to incorporate integrated vegetation management practices to help create badly needed forage along America’s highways. “I encourage all of my constituents to play a role in protecting pollinators. Through smart conservation practices, we can all help to revitalize the pollinator population.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.10.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after the number of Americans cut-off from Emergency Unemployment Insurance (UI) reached 3 million: “I continue to strongly oppose Republican efforts to prevent the extension of Emergency Unemployment Insurance. Since they first let UI expire in December 2013, more than 3 million people have lost their benefits. Every week Congress delays action on renewing UI, 72,000 more Americans will be affected. “The Senate passed a bipartisan compromise to restore UI in April. And yet, the House Republican leadership continues to waste time and obstruct Democratic proposals that will help the 3 million Americans struggling across this nation. I strongly urge House Republicans to work with Democrats to restore UI immediately.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.06.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement marking the 70th anniversary of the Allied invasion of Normandy, known as D-Day: “I join with people around the world in commemoration of the 70th anniversary of D-Day. Today, we honor the brave men and women that made Allied victory in World War II possible. “The names of the Normandy beachfronts of Utah, Omaha, Gold, Juno, and Sword are to this day known as hallowed places, where at great cost, Allied forces took the first steps towards victory against tyranny. With great sacrifice, courage, and determination, our combined forces advanced, liberating Western Europe and defeating the Nazi regime. “We owe much to this greatest generation. I am honored to pay tribute to the courageous heroes of D-Day who fought and died to secure a world free from the oppression of intolerance, where human dignity and liberty are valued above all. As we mark this solemn anniversary, let us honor their sacrifice and recommit ourselves to the fight against injustice across the globe.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.03.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement marking the ninth anniversary of Caribbean-American Heritage Month: “The United States and the nations of the Caribbean have grown and prospered alongside each other for generations. This month, I am pleased to pay tribute to the countless Caribbean-Americans that have contributed to the development of the United States, and the generations of Caribbean-Americans that have called America home. “Throughout our nation’s history, Caribbean-Americans have been involved in all facets of American society – from science and education, to business and the arts. Florida is home to the largest population of Caribbean-Americans in the country, and I am proud to represent a district with such a rich and diverse cultural identity. “Our nation’s strength comes from its diversity and this month’s celebration clearly illustrates how each generation leaves the United States a more vibrant and tolerant place. As we mark National Caribbean-American Heritage month, let us recognize the many contributions that Caribbean-Americans have made in shaping and strengthening our country.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.01.2014	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement to mark the beginning of this year’s Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) Pride Month: “With the passing of another year, we come together this June to celebrate the diversity and many contributions of our nation’s LGBT community. In particular, 2014 marks the 45th anniversary of the Stonewall Riots, and while discrimination based on sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression is still very much a reality all across the country, the momentum for LGBT equality continues to build following the historic Supreme Court decisions regarding Proposition 8 and the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA). I am pleased to report that the number of marriage equality states has grown to 19, including the District of Columbia, with the recent addition of Delaware, Hawaii, Illinois, Maryland, Minnesota, New Jersey, New Mexico, Oregon, Pennsylvania, and Rhode Island. As a result, 44 percent of Americans now live in a state that recognizes the equal rights and protections of committed gay and lesbian couples. “Looking to the workplace, efforts continue to urge House Speaker John Boehner to bring the Employment Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA), which has already passed the Senate, to the Floor for a vote. Many in our nation’s business community, including the majority of Fortune 500 companies, have long prohibited discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity, as well as provided domestic partner health insurance benefits to their employees. I am pleased that more and more business leaders have come out in support of LGBT rights and, specifically, joined grassroots efforts to oppose discriminatory laws at the state level. However, countless qualified, hardworking Americans continue to be denied job opportunities, harassed, fired, or otherwise discriminated against solely because of who they are. As a nation, we must strive to protect the equal rights of all Americans and see to it that ENDA becomes law. “In our nation’s military, the 2011 repeal of ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ has proven that open service and service to country are not mutually exclusive. For far too long, the contributions and sacrifices of our gay and lesbian service members went unacknowledged, and their loved ones burdened by holes in military family benefits and protections. I was proud to support efforts that ultimately brought an end to ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,’ and am working to ensure that Transgender Americans in uniform are also afforded the equal recognition that they deserve. “History is made every day. Whether you are coming out as an openly LGBT pro athlete, working as a concerned parent to help implement comprehensive anti-bullying policies, raising awareness of HIV/AIDS as an active member of your community, advocating for immigration reform for your family, or challenging negative stereotypes and misconceptions in popular culture, you make a difference. I look forward to the great progress that we will continue to make together to advance equality for all Americans in the coming year. To all my friends in the LGBT community, I wish you Happy Pride!” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.30.2014	Today, Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Jeff Denham (R-CA), Co-Chairs of the Congressional Pollinator Protection Caucus, introduced the Highways Bettering the Economy and Environment Act, known as the Highways BEE Act (Legislation Attached): “I am pleased to introduce the Highways Bettering the Economy and Environment Act with my Co-Chairman of the Congressional Pollinator Protection Caucus, Representative Denham. This bi-partisan bill provides much-needed aid for the birds, bats, bees, and butterflies that pollinate our food,” said Hastings. “Our farmers and the American public are dependent upon insect pollination to ensure healthy, abundant crops, and there are many ways to encourage pollinator health. One example is allowing our highway and freeway medians to bloom and flower naturally. Under this bill, all states will be able to make the choices that are in the best interest of pollinators when managing their lands,” said Denham. “This bill provides for existing authorities and funding sources to incorporate integrated vegetation management practices along America’s highways. This kind of roadside vegetation management provides much-needed habitat for pollinators and other small nesting animals,” continued Hastings. “Seventy-five percent of all flowering plant species rely on creatures like birds, bats, bees and butterflies for fertilization. One out of every three bites of food that we eat, as well as $20 billion of products in the United States alone, derive from pollinators.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.30.2014	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Congressman Robert B. Aderholt (R-AL) introduced a resolution to express condolences and support for assistance to the victims of the historic flooding in the Western Balkans, which began on May 13, 2014. The record rainfall caused widespread flooding in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia, and the Republic of Serbia, leading to landslides, massive destruction, and over 40 deaths. More than half a million people across the region have been impacted, with tens of thousands either displaced or homeless amidst the ongoing state of emergency. (See attached Resolution). “My thoughts and prayers go out to all those who have been affected by the flooding in the Western Balkans, especially those who have lost loved ones, their homes, and their way of life. These communities will never be quite the same again, and the struggle to rebuild and recover will likely continue for many years to come. I would like to take this opportunity to recognize local authorities, first responders and rescue personnel, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), volunteers, and everyday citizens for their efforts to organize and deliver disaster relief to communities in need all across the region. The people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia, and the Republic of Serbia are not alone in this great time of need,” said Hastings. “I am proud to say that the United States’ response to the natural disaster in the Western Balkans has been swift and substantial. To date, we have provided assistance through the Office of U.S. Foreign Disaster Assistance (OFDA) to the Serbian Red Cross, as well as from the Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs and U.S. Embassy in Belgrade. Additionally, the United States Government has provided OFDA assistance to Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as boats, food, and supplies through the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) and Department of Defense. As immediate and long-term needs are identified, I urge my colleagues in Congress to support the provision of essential assistance along with that of other nations and organizations to help our friends in the Western Balkans recover from this tragedy,” further noted Hastings. “I have visited the Western Balkans on several occasions and I was deeply saddened to learn of the loss of life and the destruction that happened recently due to the floods. My thoughts and prayers, along with those of the people of Alabama and all of the United States, are with the people of the Balkans who are facing this terrible devastation. I appreciate Rep. Hastings for sponsoring this resolution and I look forward to working with our colleagues in Congress to help move this forward,” said Aderholt. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.30.2014	Today, Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), along with 61 of their colleagues in Congress, sent the following letter to President Barack Obama, urging him to direct the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to create a Haitian Family Reunification Parole Program that would allow Haitians with approved family-based visa petitions to come to the United States and work while they await their visas. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter). Joining Hastings and Diaz-Balart as co-signers of the letter were (61): Reps. John Conyers, Jr., Charles B. Rangel, George Miller, John Lewis, Frank Pallone, Jr., Elliot L. Engel, Jim McDermott, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, James P. Moran, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Maxine Waters, Jerrold Nadler, Sanford D. Bishop, Jr., Corrine Brown, Luis V. Gutiérrez, Eddie Bernice Johnson, Lucille Roybal-Allard, Bobby L. Rush, Bennie G. Thompson, Chaka Fattah, Sheila Jackson Lee, Zoe Lofgren, Earl Blumenauer, Donna M. Christensen, Danny K. Davis, James P. McGovern, Gregory W. Meeks, John F. Tierney, Barbara Lee, Michael E. Capuano, Janice D. Schakowsky, Wm. Lacy Clay, Michael M. Honda, Raúl M. Grijalva, David Scott, Emanuel Cleaver, Al Green, Gwen Moore, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Albio Sires, Kathy Castor, Yvette D. Clarke, Steve Cohen, Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr., Peter Welch, André Carson, Theodore E. Deutch, Karen Bass, William R. Keating, Cedric L. Richmond, Frederica S. Wilson, Donald M. Payne, Jr., Matt Cartwright, Lois Frankel, Joe Garcia, Robin L. Kelly, Mark Pocan, Marc A. Veasey, Elijah E. Cummings, José E. Serrano, and Donna F. Edwards. May 30, 2014 The Honorable Barack H. Obama President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We write to strongly urge you to direct the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to create a Haitian Family Reunification Parole Program in order to save lives and accelerate Haiti’s recovery efforts. This would allow Haitians with approved family-based visa petitions to come to the United States while they await their visas. Tragically, over 200,000 Haitians were killed and millions more were affected by the catastrophic 7.0 magnitude earthquake that struck Haiti on January 12, 2010. The devastation left Haiti’s infrastructure severely compromised and its citizens vulnerable. Over four years later, approximately 150,000 Haitians still live under deplorable conditions in the country’s infamous tent camps, and tens of thousands have had no other alternative but to live in unsafe, makeshift shelters that comprise the informal settlements around Port-au-Prince. In addition, while the United Nations (UN) has played an important role in the post-earthquake recovery effort, it has failed to adequately address and take responsibility for a deadly cholera outbreak that has killed more than 8,500 Haitians and sickened more than 700,000 since October of 2010. Furthermore, many media reports have documented what the U.S. Coast Guard knows all too well. Desperate Haitians are increasingly abandoned and dying at sea as they resort to smugglers to cross perilous routes in search of a better life, including the notoriously treacherous 80-mile-wide Mona Passage strait toward Puerto Rico. According to Captain Mark Fedor, Chief of Enforcement of the U.S. Coast Guard’s Seventh District in Miami, “[the smugglers] want to get the run done and collect their money…there’s probably a lot of death we don’t know about.” As of November 1, 2013, DHS had approved family-based immigrant visa petitions for 109,489. However, due to arbitrary per country limits, they unconscionably remain on waiting lists of up to more than 12 years in Haiti. Your administration can take immediate steps to save and improve lives by allowing Haitians who have already been approved to join their families in the United States. The Cuban Family Reunification Parole Program, which was created by DHS in 2007 and subsequently renewed by your administration, has successfully paroled tens of thousands of approved Cuban participants into the United States. Creating a Haitian Family Reunification Parole Program would not only save lives and reunite families, but empower individuals to actively assist in Haiti’s recovery. Haitians remit about $2 billion annually, mostly from the diaspora in the United States, and Haitian parolees would be able to obtain work permits and send much-needed remittances back to Haiti. The creation of a Haitian Family Reunification Parole Program is supported by 100 Members of Congress from both parties, 10 major editorial boards in at least 17 editorials, the New York and Philadelphia city councils, the U.S. Conference of Mayors, American Bar Association, Miami-Dade County Commission, Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick, and thousands of petitioners. Thank you for your attention to this urgent matter. The people of Haiti are incredibly resilient and eager to take control of their future. We therefore urge you to put an end to the indefinite waiting lists as soon as possible through the creation of a Haitian Family Reunification Parole Program. Sincerely, Reps. Alcee L. Hastings, Mario Diaz-Balart, John Conyers, Jr., Charles B. Rangel, George Miller, John Lewis, Frank Pallone, Jr., Elliot L. Engel, Jim McDermott, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, James P. Moran, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Maxine Waters, Jerrold Nadler, Sanford D. Bishop, Jr., Corrine Brown, Luis V. Gutiérrez, Eddie Bernice Johnson, Lucille Roybal-Allard, Bobby L. Rush, Bennie G. Thompson, Chaka Fattah, Sheila Jackson Lee, Zoe Lofgren, Earl Blumenauer, Donna M. Christensen, Danny K. Davis, James P. McGovern, Gregory W. Meeks, John F. Tierney, Barbara Lee, Michael E. Capuano, Janice D. Schakowsky, Wm. Lacy Clay, Michael M. Honda, Raúl M. Grijalva, David Scott, Emanuel Cleaver, Al Green, Gwen Moore, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Albio Sires, Kathy Castor, Yvette D. Clarke, Steve Cohen, Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr., Peter Welch, André Carson, Theodore E. Deutch, Karen Bass, William R. Keating, Cedric L. Richmond, Frederica S. Wilson, Donald M. Payne, Jr., Matt Cartwright, Lois Frankel, Joe Garcia, Robin L. Kelly, Mark Pocan, Marc A. Veasey, Elijah E. Cummings, José E. Serrano, and Donna F. Edwards Cc: The Honorable Jeh Johnson Secretary, U.S. Department of Homeland Security The Honorable John Kerry Secretary, U.S. Department of State Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.23.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement commemorating Memorial Day, which falls on May 26, 2014: "On Memorial Day, we remember the brave men and women who have fought and died in defense of our country. As we pay tribute to the millions of Americans that have served in the armed forces throughout our nation’s history, let us honor their courage, sacrifice, and dedication to preserving the freedoms we so often take for granted. “We must also remain committed to protecting the rights of all veterans, active duty members of the armed forces, and their families. As our troops come home from conflicts overseas, the need for veterans’ services across the nation will continue grow. Many veterans have already faced difficulty navigating the Veterans Administration’s (VA) health care, disability, education, and job placement services. We must ensure that these services are accessible to those who need them. “I am committed to serving each and every one of my constituents returning home from deployment, and indeed every American veteran, as they access the services and benefits they rightly deserve. This Memorial Day, I proudly join with Americans here at home and abroad in honoring the service members and veterans that keep our country strong.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. d###
05.20.2014	Today, the Congressional Homelessness Caucus, co-chaired by Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), hosted a briefing on the impacts of the lapse of emergency unemployment insurance (UI) on families at risk of losing their housing. The participants on the panel included: Cara Baldari, Senior Policy Director and Legal Counsel at First Focus; Sharon McDonald, Director for Families and Youth at the National Alliance to End Homelessness; Jerry Jones, Executive Director of the National Coalition for the Homeless; and Harry Swain, faces of the homeless speaker. “As a Co-Chair of the Congressional Homelessness Caucus, I am particularly alarmed at the impact of the lapse in emergency unemployment insurance on families living paycheck to paycheck. Too many Americans are in dire risk of exhausting their savings, losing their homes, and ending up on the streets. This program is a lifeline for millions and it is critical that Congress acts quickly to bring relief to those who have seen their benefits expire,” said Hastings. “The lapse of unemployment benefits will have devastating effects on the millions of working families through the country that are working hard to keep food on the table. It is critical that Congress extend Unemployment Insurance immediately to avoid pushing more and more families into homelessness,” added Johnson. “One third of unemployed Americans, 3.5 million individuals, have been without a job for 27 weeks or longer. It is estimated that just last year, less than one in four Americans had enough savings to cover six months of expenses after losing a job. Allowing men, women, and children to live on the streets is not a standard America should be willing to accept,” added Hastings. Since UI expired in December 2013, approximately 2.7 million Americans have seen their benefits run out. Approximately 72,000 people continue to lose their benefits every week. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.17.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings released the following statement marking the 60th anniversary of the Supreme Court’s decision in ​Brown v. Board of Education: “Today, our nation marks the 60th anniversary of the historic U.S. Supreme Court Brown v. Board of Education decision, which overturned 58 years of ‘separate but equal’ jurisprudence that had been established by Plessy v. Ferguson. Brown was a landmark decision for the Civil Rights Movement and a turning point for our nation. It served as the watershed for a number of Supreme Court decisions that eventually increased equality for all Americans of color. “Yet, as we remember this great achievement, we must keep in mind recent shifts in jurisprudence that may drastically affect the social, economic, and political landscape between races in America. In two recent decisions, Shelby County v. Holder (2013) and Schuette v. Coalition to Defend Affirmative Action (2014), the Supreme Court undid much of our nation’s progress, despite precedence and recorded acknowledgement of the inequalities and inequities that minorities have endured. “To commemorate the 60th anniversary of the Supreme Court decision in Brown v. Board of Education, Congresswoman Frederica S. Wilson (D-FL), Congresswoman Lynn Jenkins (R-KS), and I introduced House Resolution 561. We will always remember those who fought in the Civil Rights Movement for the integration of public schools and other public facilities. I believe that we must continue to work together towards a more humane and caring society. Let us build upon Brown and commit ourselves to ensuring equality for all Americans.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.07.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement at a meeting of the House Rules Committee last night in response to the scheduled vote on the resolution recommending the House hold Lois Lerner, former Director of the Exempt Organizations Division of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), in contempt: “What the scandal is in all of this stuff is that there is no scandal. What happens is, you haven’t been able, nobody has been able, to tie this to the administration. And just to abuse you all of the notion that its only tea party people that have been investigated, that just simply is not the case. What happens with IRS, and we should get off of their backs, they are thrust upon political seasons with immense responsibilities to make a determination as to whether or not organizations qualify under the laws as they are written with reference to 501(c)(3) and (c)(4). “I want to make it very clear: I take umbrage for the reason I belong to Mount Hermon AME Church in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, and way before any of this took place, my church was under two years of investigation because John Kerry came to church. And there are conservative churches that have had their charters reviewed by the Internal Revenue Service. So this isn’t all about one particular segment of our society. I think the most pertinent thing out of this is what Ms. Slaughter said, and Mr. Cummings agreed, that the law needs to be written clearly so that the IRS and anybody else can have a better understanding “I just, for the life of me, don’t believe that in this week, what we are doing is handling the business of the people of the United States of America. Like you all, I spent 10 days on the ground in my district, and I had a considerable amount of interface with a variety of people, Democrat and Republican. “Nobody said to me Benghazi. “Nobody said to me anything to me about IRS. “Nobody said anything about any need for any select committee to investigate anything. “Almost all were concerned about jobs. A considerable amount of query about unemployment benefits for people who have lost their jobs. And here we are, about the business of looking for scandal where there is no scandal – and that is the scandal: that you are spending taxpayer time and money going about looking for something that didn’t exist. “Ms. Lerner had every right to assert her 5th amendment rights. And when she asserted her 5th amendment rights, they stand. And I predict for you, in spite of all of the hoi polloi here, that when it is in court, and it will be in court if you all vote it out tomorrow, that you will find that it will be dismissed. And then where are we, with some more political mish-mash? Enough already people.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.06.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement recognizing the 66th Anniversary of Israel’s Independence: “On Yom Ha’atzmaut, Israel celebrates its founding by Prime Minister David Ben Gurion in 1948. Since then, Israel has stood as a dynamic democracy in the Middle East region with its rich culture, vibrant economy, and commitment to peace. “Yet, independence has come at a great price. This is why on the day before celebrating its independence, Israel observes Yom Hazikaron, and remembers all those who gave their lives defending their families, their communities, and their country. This year, Israel honored the more than 23,000 soldiers killed in the line of duty and another 1,800 civilian victims of terrorism. I have always been deeply moved by the duality of Israel’s independence celebration, at once both sorrowful and triumphant. “I am proud of the close relationship that has developed between the United States and Israel over the past 66 years. These ties, based on the common bond of democracy, economic vitality, and cultural affinity, remain as strong now under President Barack Obama as when President Harry Truman first recognized the Jewish State. From religious kinships to shared interests, and from military strengths to commercial relations, the friendship between the United States is unbreakable. “However, Israel continues to face serious regional threats, and these concerns are also shared by the United States. One of the largest threats to regional stability and Israel’s security today is Iran. Iran’s pursuit of nuclear weapons and support for terrorism pose a grave threat to both Israel and the global community at large. The statements of aggression made by Iran’s leaders must be taken seriously, and the international community has a responsibility to act to prevent a nuclear Iran. I have supported numerous sanctions efforts in Congress to cripple Iran’s ability to develop nuclear weapons, and will continue to do so as long as Iran insists on pursuing this dangerous path. “I am proud to have visited Israel 15 times as a Member of Congress, and to have called every Israeli Prime Minister from Yitzhak Rabin to Benjamin Netanyahu my friend. The United States must continue to support Israel’s right to self-defense, increase its engagement in the region, and work towards finding a fair solution that enables both Israelis and Palestinians to live in peace, security, and prosperity. As Co-Chair of the Democratic Israel Working Group, I remain committed to working with my colleagues in Congress to further strengthen our special relationship with Israel.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.01.2014	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), along with Representatives Frederica Wilson (D-FL) and Lynn Jenkins (R-KS), introduced legislation marking the 60th Anniversary of Brown v. Board of Education. (See attached legislation) “Brown v. Board of Education was a landmark decision for the civil rights movement and a turning point for our nation,” said Hastings. “Brown overturned 58 years of a ‘separate but equal’ policy established in Plessy v. Ferguson that was anything but equal. Because of this decision, access to public facilities can never again be denied on the basis of race.” “While the battle over segregation continued for many years afterward, and our nation still today has many civil rights issues to address, Brown remains a moment of historical significance that ushered our country to contemporary standards of humanity and compassion,” further noted Hastings. “As we mark the 60th anniversary of the historic U.S. Supreme Court Brown v. Board of Education decision that ended racially-segregated public schools – a major victory in the civil rights movement – it is my hope that the resolution Congressman Hastings, Congresswoman Jenkins and I have introduced commemorating the anniversary will be a clarion call to Congress to increase overall investments in education,” said Wilson. “As a former school teacher, principal, Miami-Dade County School Board Member and now a member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, I am committed to fighting for results-yielding programs and policies that address high school drop-out rates, failing schools, underpaid teachers, a lack of qualified teachers, and rising college tuition costs that threaten the production of a well-educated, well-trained workforce and threaten our place as a leader in the global economy.” “Brown v. Board of Education was a major turning point in U.S. history and gave us hope that every child would have an opportunity to succeed. Let us not fail our children. Let us commemorate Brown v. Board of Education by making education and our children’s future a priority,” further noted Wilson. “As Kansans, we remember those who fought to end racial segregation in our public schools and most especially, Reverend Oliver L. Brown and his family who were the champions in this cause to move our nation forward,” said Jenkins. “We all will be forever indebted to them for their willingness to stand up for what was right, and fulfill the promise of the abolitionist founding of our state. These are the types of leaders that provide an example for all Americans on the value of public service.” “While I am saddened that the injustices of the past required it, as a Kansan I am proud of the legacy of the Brown decision. Today, I have joined Congressman Alcee Hastings (FL-20) and Congresswoman Frederica Wilson (FL-24) to introduce a resolution commemorating the 60th anniversary of the Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka. It is our hope that through passage of this resolution, we can remember that issues that have divided can be resolved and we can truly accomplish a more just nation,” further noted Jenkins. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.28.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in recognition of Holocaust Remembrance Day and the Days of Remembrance: “Between 1940 and 1945, two out of every three Jews in Europe perished. By the end of the Holocaust, nearly eleven million people had been murdered by the Nazis, including six million Jews, of which one million were children. This week, we observe the Days of Remembrance by honoring the lives that were cut short in this tragedy and reaffirming our obligation to preventing genocide from ever happening again. “This year’s theme is ‘Confronting the Holocaust: American Responses.’ As the systematic persecution of Jews spread across Europe, few nations took action. Though there were many individuals that advocated and aided Jews as they fled, many nations, including the United States, turned away Jewish refugees. “As we mark the Days of Remembrance, we also observe the 75th anniversary of the voyage of the St. Louis. The ship had more than 900 Jewish refugees on board, but after being denied entry into both the United States and Cuba was forced to return to Europe. The St. Louis had sailed close enough to the shores of Florida to see the lights of Miami, but hundreds of its passengers perished before the end of the Holocaust. “Every year, there are fewer survivors left to tell their stories. As we face a resurgence of anti-Semitism and continued threats of new violence against ethnic minorities around the world, we must remain vigilant. This week, as in every week, let us remember those who were lost during the Holocaust and focus on bringing an end to violence and persecution around the world.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.22.2014	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D- FL) issued the following statement in recognition of Earth Day: “Every year as we celebrate Earth Day, events are held across the globe expressing support for protecting our environment. In reality, the issues affecting our world are serious and consequential, and we must do more on a daily basis to address the environmental challenges that we continue to face. “According to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the last decade was the warmest on record, with longer and hotter heat waves and stronger and more frequent storms. We must work together to implement reforms based on scientific data to effectively mitigate our planet’s changing climate. “As global citizens, we must always remain conscious of our actions and their global impact. We must never stop trying to be more environmentally friendly, and I commend the countless businesses that have already joined the ‘green’ movement. Our resources are precious, and by working together we can preserve them and our environment for generations to come.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.21.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) will deliver keynote remarks at a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) naturalization ceremony on Tuesday, April 22, 2014, at 11:00 AM. The ceremony will take place at Little Green Library, located at 1033 N.W. 6th Street, Suite 102, Fort Lauderdale, FL 33311. Details: Who: Congressman Alcee L. Hastings What: Keynote Remarks at USCIS Naturalization Ceremony When: Tuesday, April 22, 2014, at 11:00 AM Where: Little Green Library 1033 N.W. 6th Street Suite 102 Fort Lauderdale, FL 33311 Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.09.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in support of the Congressional Black Caucus Budget proposal: “On January 8, 1964, President Johnson came before the nation to deliver his State of the Union address and declared a war on poverty. It has been 60 years since President Johnson gave us that charge, but we have yet to achieve a country free from the burdens of poverty. As President Johnson said all those years ago, ‘It will not be a short or easy struggle, no single weapon or strategy will suffice, but we shall not rest until that war is won. The richest nation on earth can afford to win it. We cannot afford to lose it.’ “President Johnson was correct. The struggle has been neither short nor easy, but he was also right when he said we would not rest until the war on poverty was won. There is no silver bullet, no single weapon or strategy for confronting something as complex as our nation’s struggle with poverty. That is why I rise today in support of the budget put forth by the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC). This budget is neither a single weapon nor a single strategy, but rather a multi-faceted dynamic approach to responsible governing that will strengthen our economy and reduce our deficit by approximately $1.8 trillion over the next ten years. “A budget can act as a mirror; a mirror that reflects the priorities, ideals and morality of a nation. When we hold the budget proposed by Chairman Ryan up to the mirror, we see an image that distorts the ideals that provide the foundation for this country. We see an image that prioritizes protecting the wealthy over championing middle class families, small businesses and the poor. We know what we need to do to help those Americans who are struggling. We need to extend emergency unemployment insurance; we need to raise the minimum wage; we need to support the Affordable Care Act; invest in education; invest in job training; and we certainly have to invest in our infrastructure. We need a plan to create jobs. The dynamic budget proposed by the CBC addresses all of these issues and more. Under Mr. Ryan’s Path to Poverty, these critical issues are not addressed. In fact, they are purposely ignored. “Our tax code is hurting many Americans. It is a code that rewards and protects the rich at the expense of middle class families and the poor. Taken together, the ideas proposed by the CBC would equal roughly $4.3 trillion in revenue enhancement over the next decade in ways that are fairer to more Americans. The CBC only directs the appropriate committees in the House and Senate to find $2.0 trillion in revenue enhancements. “Those of us who champion the CBC budget provide a number of ways to reach that $2.0 trillion mark. For instance, we could end special tax breaks and close tax loopholes available only to the wealthiest Americans. This alone could get us $1 trillion over the next ten years. We could also stop the wealthiest among us from using overseas tax havens to avoid paying their fair share. Along these same lines, let us rid our tax code of ridiculous loopholes like deductions for yachts and the loophole for corporate jets. Additionally, we could find $880 billion over the next decade if we taxed capital gains and dividends as ordinary income. We all have constituents back home who work hard all week. They put in their 40 hours, often times more, to provide for their families. At the end of the week they get a check from which taxes have been withheld at rates for ordinary income. This amount is taxed higher than the gains made in from stocks. The Congressional Research Service (CRS) has said that these rates are ‘the single greatest driver of income inequality over a recent 15 year period was runaway income from capital gains and dividends.’ It does not seem unreasonable to ask that the Wall Street banker sitting on a stock portfolio, to pay the same tax rates as a teacher in Florida or a factory worker in Maine. “We have a truly disturbing income inequality situation in this country. Such inequality is unfair to those who work diligently to create growth for this country, but who do not get to reap the benefits there from. This inequality is bad for the social fabric that binds this country together. While corporations and top level executives make record profits and payout larger and larger bonuses, middle class Americans are left further and further behind as they struggle through this jobless recovery. “Additionally, sequestration did not do any favors for the middle class or poor. Sequestration was the brutal swing of a cudgel of despair aimed right at the hopes and dreams of poor and middle class families. Head Start programs were scaled back, summer sessions were cut, instructors were cut, and students were put on waitlists rather than in classrooms. Seniors were placed in danger of facing food insecurities when Meals on Wheels had to cut down on their deliveries. Sequestration led to federal funding being cut for education including science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM). This was done at the K-12 level and the college level. It will be absolutely impossible for this country to maintain its advantage in an increasingly advanced and complex world economy if we do not invest in STEM education at all levels. These are but a few reasons the CBC Budget responsibly puts an end to Sequestration. “Our country cries out for a jobs bill that will accelerate economic recovery and helps Americans across this nation. The CBC budget answers these cries by proposing a jobs program totaling $500 billion. This responsible approach to governing will grow our economy by establishing a National Direct Job Creation Program that puts people to work repairing our schools, community centers, parks and playgrounds. This program will add 2.8 million jobs. This responsible approach to growing our economy also includes a plan to modernize our schools. Many of the schools around this country were built decades ago. These schools are approaching the point where we cannot adequately train our young people for the challenges ahead. In order to meet the demands and challenges of the future, our students need facilities that can handle the cutting edge technologies that will undoubtedly form the basis of any decent job of the future. “The CBC’s responsible approach to governing calls for an immediate investment in our country’s infrastructure. Not only will an immediate investment in our infrastructure lead to hundreds of thousands of jobs dedicated to upgrading this country’s crumbling roads, bridges and railways, but by strengthening our infrastructure, we help businesses small and large alike grow by giving them access to the tools they need to ship goods throughout the country. “The CBC’s responsible approach to governing also acknowledges the fact that the housing crisis continues to ripple throughout many of our neighborhoods. That is why the budget calls for significant funding to help communities rebuild and helps families facing foreclosures remain in their homes. “Furthermore, the CBC budget, acknowledges the fact that a person may come into this economy with one set of skills, but through no fault of their own, find that they need a new set of skills to be competitive in a rapidly changing economy. The budget makes sure that these hard working Americans are not left behind by giving them access to technical training, career services, graduate and certificate programs and other job training programs. “Every day, homeless Americans face constant instability and must cope with difficult and often unhealthy lifestyles. For those living without permanent housing, everyday life is extremely difficult. Storing and preparing food is nearly impossible, and much of the homeless population relies on temporary shelters and soup kitchens to survive. The Supplemental Nutrition Program (SNAP) provides working poor Americans with badly needed nourishment. Cutting funding for this program will only add to the difficulties so many are facing. The CBC budget recognizes this reality, and uses the program savings that will come from raising the minimum wage to help improve and streamline the benefits and ensure that this critical lifeline remain available for those who need it most. “The budget proposed here today is a budget that protects the poor, while providing security for middle class families. It is a budget that protects the social fabric holding together the greatest experiment in democracy the world has ever known. It is a budget that responsibly rewards innovation, while closing gross inequalities in wealth. It is a budget that helps teachers instill in our young people a thirst for knowledge. It is a budget that invests in this country’s roads and bridges to help our small businesses. It is a budget that will bring us further down the road towards ending the War on Poverty, not further down the Road to Ruin that the Republicans want to take us.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.08.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement in recognition of Equal Pay Day, which marks how far into the current year the average woman must work to earn what the average man made in the year before: “It has been more than 50 years since the Equal Pay Act was signed into law. And yet, equal pay for equal work still remains a major issue. More than 65 million women are part of the workforce in our country and hold approximately half of the available jobs – including nearly two-thirds of minimum-wage jobs, yet they earn at least 20 percent less than men. We must close this wage gap. “On average, a woman makes only 77 cents for every dollar that a man makes. The disparity for African American and Latina women is even larger. Democrats in Congress stand ready to address this issue with legislation that will improve the economic security of not only women but all American workers. The Paycheck Fairness Act and the Fair Minimum Wage Act, two bills that I proudly co-sponsor, would take significant steps to improve pay equity and increase penalties on employers paying discriminatory wages. “When women succeed, America succeeds. No full-time worker should have to live in poverty, and no person should earn a lower wage just because they are a woman. As we mark Equal Pay Day, I am committed to working to end wage discrimination in our country once and for all.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.02.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement in response to the Supreme Court’s decision in McCutcheon v. F.E.C.: “Today’s decision by the Supreme Court is a giant step backward for our nation. This ruling doubles down on policies that force elected officials to prioritize fundraising over legislating, and allows a few wealthy donors to overwhelm grassroots campaigns with money for their favored issues and candidates. It will undoubtedly further drown out the voices of ordinary Americans. “Only a few days ago we saw potential Republican Presidential hopefuls cozying up to billionaire donors. Now, they have in place a codified system for buying elections. Make no mistake: this decision will have far-reaching and resounding consequences, and as a result, faith in our democratic system will only suffer further. This is truly a troublesome day for our country. “There is an alternative. I proudly support legislation in Congress that will bring fairness back to elections. H.R. 20, the Government by the People Act, is bipartisan legislation introduced earlier this month with over 130 original cosponsors and the support of over 40 national organizations. The legislation would restore the voice of everyday Americans in our political system. “While the Supreme Court’s decision is extremely disappointing, I remain committed to advocating for fair and open elections. Congress must take action immediately to restore confidence in our nation’s campaign system.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.12.2014	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) was joined by Representatives Henry A. Waxman (D-CA), John Lewis (D-GA), Eliot Engel (D-NY), Al Green (D-TX), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Marcia Fudge (D-OH), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Terri Sewell (D-AL), and Frederica Wilson (D-FL) in hosting a breakfast for Black and Jewish Members of Congress. The purpose of the breakfast was to continue the dialogue on the history of Black and Jewish relations and develop plans for a better future. “The Black and Jewish American communities have been brought together by common histories of prejudice and discrimination. Both work every day to eliminate hatred and bigotry from our country in search of a brighter future,” said Congressman Alcee L. Hastings. “Today, we still see the signs of racial conflict within our lands. We see racial conflict in nations half a world away. Anti-Semitism is once again on the rise in countries throughout Europe, and racism remains a pervasive force both here at home and across the globe. We must carry in our hearts the resolve to strive for a world without hatred, where all people, regardless of race, religion, or creed may live together free from the burdens of persecution and violence.” Also attending the breakfast was His Excellency Ron Dermer, Ambassador of Israel, as well as Rabbi Ari Sunshine of B’nai Shalom Congregation, Reverend Robyn E. Franklyn-Vaughn of Howard University, and student leaders from Operation Understanding D.C. Following Congressman Hastings’ opening remarks, blessings were offered by Rabbi Sunshine and Reverend Franklyn-Vaughn, who also shared brief words about their work in engaging and uniting the Black and Jewish communities. “Jews and African Americans have both known the pain of struggle, slavery and oppression in our histories because societies, even supposedly ‘civilized’ ones, deemed us to be different by virtue of our religion or our skin color. Our sacred and divine work is to find the courage and the faith to continue striving to eradicate the plagues of ignorance, intolerance and hatred from our midst. If we continue working together on this divine task, we have the ability to transform people’s pain and despair into something much more Godly: joy and hope,” said Rabbi Ari Sunshine. Reverend Robyn E. Franklyn-Vaughn added, “We have come to a place where many in our community think that the work is done. We know that is not true. Our young generations are still vulnerable and the conversation must continue." “Jewish Americans and African Americans have a long history of partnership and in my experience it has been no different in Congress,” said Congressman Henry A. Waxman. “Jewish Americans and African Americans have stood shoulder-to-shoulder on the frontlines of the struggle for human dignity. They have suffered together, gone to jail together, and even died to help make this country and the world community a better place. This breakfast honors the legacy of that partnership to help build a more perfect union,” said Congressman John Lewis. Congressman Eliot Engel said, “African-Americans and Jews have a special bond. Our stories may be different but our history is the same, because hatred knows no bounds. Any steps we can take to foster greater cooperation and understanding between our two communities will benefit us all. We have overcome many of the horrible injustices those who came before us faced thanks to our shared commitment to equality and social justice. Let’s continue that work.” “The African-American and Jewish-American communities have a proud history of working together to advance human rights. It is my hope that events such as these will highlight our special relationship and continued struggle for justice worldwide,” said Congressman Al Green. “The bonds between the African-American and American Jewish communities are unbreakable and span many generations,” said Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz. “From fighting for human and civil rights, to promoting tolerance and understanding, our storied history tells us we will remain united in the ongoing fight to stamp out oppression and achieve equality here at home and worldwide.” “The bonds of friendship between the African American and Jewish communities are strong, forged in a shared pursuit of social justice, understanding and a determination to root out intolerance and discrimination wherever it is found. We continue to build on that legacy as partners working for equal opportunity and respect for all,” added Congresswoman Marcia Fudge. "The African-American and Jewish communities are united by our shared commitment to civil rights, equality and economic justice. From fighting voter suppression laws to restoring economic opportunity, we will continue to carry forward this historic partnership,” said Congressman Ted Deutch. “Throughout history, the strong partnership and shared values between the Black and Jewish communities have proven to be a precious asset to each group in their struggle for justice and equality,” said Congresswoman Terri Sewell. “Strengthening this partnership must remain a priority for Black and Jewish Members of Congress as well as leaders in both communities.” “The African-American and Jewish communities share histories of unconscionable atrocities, struggle and discrimination,” said Congresswoman Frederica Wilson. “Our communities also share a long history of unified efforts in the fight for equal rights. Let us continue to build upon this long-standing alliance to further the cause of social justice.” Student leaders from Operation Understanding D.C. gave remarks regarding their experiences during the six-month program, and read a poem in honor of the victims of the bombing of the 16th Street Baptist Church in Birmingham. Operation Understanding DC’s mission is to build a generation of African-American and Jewish community leaders who promote respect, understanding, and cooperation while working to eradicate racism, anti-Semitism, and all forms of discrimination. Members In Attendance (28): Suzanne Bonamici (OR), Joyce Beatty (OH), Corrine Brown (FL), Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA), James E. Clyburn (SC), Danny Davis (IL), Theodore Deutch (FL), Marcia L. Fudge (OH), Robin Kelly (NY), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX), Barbara Lee (CA), Gregory W. Meeks (NY), Bobby L. Rush (IL), Terri A. Sewell (AL), Donna Christensen (VI), Emanuel Cleaver (MO), Susan Davis (CA), Al Green (TX), Steny Hoyer (MD), Hakeem Jeffries (NY), Jerold Nadler (NY), Jared Polis (CO), Donald Payne, Jr. (NJ), Charles Rangel (NY), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL), Brad Sherman (CA), Henry Waxman (CA), and Frederica Wilson (FL). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### ​
03.08.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking International Women’s Day: “Today, we join with nations across the world in observance of International Women’s Day. As we recognize the courageous women and men who have struggled for the social, political, and economic advancement of women worldwide, let us rededicate ourselves to the cause of improving equality for women across the globe. “I am proud of the great progress we have made in recent years, from expanding health care coverage under the Affordable Care Act to the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act. However, despite this progress, it is undeniable that much remains to be done. “Women now make up half of the American workforce and play a crucial role in our economy, yet they consistently receive less pay than men. I am pleased to stand with Congressional Democrats in advocating for critical reforms that will ensure paycheck fairness and improved employee rights for all. Congress must keep women’s issues at the fore-front of the struggle for equality, at home and across the globe, and I will continue working to advance women’s rights through equal pay, equal access to education, and promoting equal opportunity. “Looking beyond our own borders, we must do more to support women’s rights. Nearly one in three women globally will be beaten, raped, or abused during their lifetimes, and rates of trafficking of girls and women remain unacceptably high. As we mark International Women’s Day, let us reflect on the progress we have made and the challenges that remain.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.07.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement commemorating the one-year anniversary of the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA): “I was proud to support the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act, which was signed into law by the President one year ago today. Since VAWA was first enacted in 1994, our country has taken historic steps to combat sexual assault, domestic and dating violence, and other forms of violence against women. “Approximately 600 women are raped or assaulted in the United States each day, and many incidents still go unreported. Women with low-income, women of color, immigrants, and members of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) community continue to be disproportionately affected by domestic and sexual violence. The reauthorization of VAWA did much to ensure that the needs of victims of abuse in underserved communities are being met. While we have come a long way as a nation in supporting women and holding offenders accountable, our work is far from over. “As we reflect on the progress we have made together, we must remain focused on ending violence against women. I will continue to support efforts that ensure the health and safety of women and children all across this nation.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.06.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement after receiving a 100 percent on the 2013 Defenders of Wildlife Conservation Report Card: “I am pleased to receive this recognition from the Defenders of Wildlife Action Fund. Throughout my career, I have consistently supported the preservation of our nation’s wildlife and environment, and will continue to support environmental conservation. “As a Floridian, I am acutely aware of the vital need for preservation and conservation efforts. I believe we have a moral obligation to protect wildlife, endangered species, and their natural habitat. The Everglades ecosystem makes up a large portion of my Congressional district, and I will remain a tireless advocate for conservation efforts at home and across the globe.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.05.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3370, the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act of 2013, which will bring relief to millions of Americans facing sharply rising flood insurance premiums. The legislation passed with bi-partisan support in a vote of 306-91. “Last night’s passage of the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act was a significant victory for homeowners across the country. “Florida holds nearly 40 percent of the nation’s flood policies, and Florida families face some of the most significant effects from increasing insurance rates. For some, premiums have already risen by thousands of dollars. This common-sense fix will bring relief to the families that have been most affected, and help to stabilize the rising tide of flood insurance premiums. It is my hope that the Senate takes up this legislation without delay.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.05.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after the number of Americans cut off from Emergency Unemployment Insurance reached 2 million: “Today, the number of Americans who have lost their emergency unemployment benefits reached 2 million. Sadly, it is no surprise that House Republicans are marking this occasion with their 50th vote to undermine health care reform. It is clear that their priorities are truly backwards. “Every week, approximately 72,000 Americans lose their emergency unemployment benefits. These are hardworking people looking for jobs. But rather than lend a hand in support, House and Senate Republicans have turned away and not looked back. “Callously refusing to extend unemployment benefits may temporarily trim the deficit, but it is a short-sighted and foolish decision that will hurt our economy and this nation. Congress must act immediately to restore this vital lifeline.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.25.2014	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings released the following statement after receiving the Florida Lawmaker of the Year award from the League of Southeastern Credit Unions: “It is my great privilege to accept the League of Southeastern Credit Unions award for Florida Lawmaker of the Year. Credit unions are critically important to our nation’s economy and serve as a primary source of consumer credit for millions of Americans, especially in underserved and rural areas, as well as for many local businesses. “Be it affording a home, starting a new business, or simply providing for their families, the League of Southeastern Credit Unions empowers Floridians and Alabamians alike. Our nation faces many pressing challenges, from creating and supporting jobs to investing in the opportunities of tomorrow. When it comes to increasing economic opportunities for middle class and working poor Americans, I believe that equitable access to credit for all is key. This is especially true for underserved and rural communities which may not otherwise be able to obtain affordable credit and fully achieve their economic potential. “I am committed to doing everything in my power to maximize access to credit for consumers in a manner that is fair and equitable, and supporting a new era of prosperity across America. I am honored to accept this award and remain focused on making it easier for all American families to succeed.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.20.2014	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement after the European Parliament held a public hearing on Afrophobia and the critical importance of continuing to work with the European Union (EU) to address racism and discrimination against Black Europeans. The hearing was organized by the Green Party, in collaboration with the European Network Against Racism (ENAR) and the European Coalition of Cities against Racism (ECCAR). “An estimated seven to ten million individuals of African descent currently live in Europe, particularly in France, the United Kingdom, and The Netherlands. These populations form an influential part of the African Diaspora. From labor and scholarship to politics and civil rights, they have contributed greatly to European history and culture over the past several centuries. However, the story of Black Europeans remains widely untold, rendering many of their past and present contributions to the political and social life of Europe invisible or forgotten. Similar to the experiences of many African Americans, they have increasingly become the targets of discrimination, pernicious racial profiling, and violent hate crimes impacting equal access to housing, employment, education, and justice. “I commend Members of the European Parliament Jean-Jacob Bicep, Jean Lambert, and Philippe Lamberts of the Greens/European Free Alliance (EFA) for building upon previous efforts and hosting a public hearing on Afrophobia in the EU. As the Ranking Democratic Member of the Helsinki Commission, I have long worked with European policymakers, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), and community leaders to help address inequality and discrimination facing persons of African descent. “In November 2013, the U.S. Helsinki Commission hosted an Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe Office of Democratic Institutions and Human Rights (OSCE/ODIHR) delegation of Black European Rights Leaders representing 10 countries. “During a Commission briefing, entitled Europeans of African Decent Black Europeans: Race, Rights, and Politics, members of the delegation shed light on the challenges encountered by many Black Europeans due to ongoing racism and discrimination, including barriers to greater political representation and leadership opportunities. Furthermore, they drew attention to the need for increased cooperation between Europe and the United States to combat racial discrimination and continuing racial disparities. “In conjunction with the Delegation's visit, I introduced H. Res. 421, Recognizing people of African Descent and Black Europeans, which outlines concrete steps that the United States can take to help address racism and discrimination in Europe. It calls for the adoption of a Joint US-European Union Action Plan to develop transatlantic solutions to combat racial discrimination and promote racial equality in Europe. “In addition, I sent a letter to President Obama urging him to adopt a Presidential initiative for People of African descent around the world. “Europe is currently grappling with complex questions at the intersection of national identity, decreasing birth rates, increasing immigration, security concerns, and a rise in extremist political parties. Cooperation between the United State and the EU is key to addressing the global challenges of racism and discrimination, and we should recognize the efforts made by the EU to address them.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.03.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement in recognition of Black History Month: “Every February, we celebrate the proud history and valuable contributions made by Americans of African descent. From the scars of slavery to the triumph of emancipation, and from the injustice of segregation to the struggle for equal rights, the journey of the Black community is inseparably woven into the fabric of American history. “Despite the persistent forces of prejudice and discrimination, Black Americans have done much to shape America into the nation it is today. The African American community has left its mark on every aspect of American culture, from the arts and humanities to research, scientific exploration, and public service. “This year, we also mark the 50th anniversary of the signing of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. As we celebrate this great victory of the civil rights era, we do so knowing that the fight for equality is not yet over. Disparities in employment, wealth, and education still persist among American communities of color, and across the country, new laws have been enacted that restrict the ability of minorities to vote. “This year, let us mark Black History Month by rededicating ourselves to the fight for equality for all Americans.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.30.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after the Humane Society Legislative Fund awarded him a 100 percent rating on their 2013 Annual Scorecard: “I am pleased to once again receive this recognition from the Humane Society Legislative Fund. Animal welfare remains an issue of great importance to me, and I will continue to work to ensure that all animals are treated fairly and humanely. “I have proudly offered my support to a number of legislative initiatives throughout my tenure in Congress to improve the welfare of animals. I believe that animal abuse is unequivocally wrong, and will never waiver in my support for animal rights.” Hastings is co-sponsor of four pieces of legislation that will protect animal welfare as well as consumers, including H.R. 1518, the Preventing All Soring Tactics (PAST) Act, H.R. 1731, the Egg Products Inspection Act Amendments, H.R. 366, the Animal Fighting Spectator Prohibition Act, and H.R. 1094, the Safeguard American Food Exports (SAFE) Act. Every year, the Humane Society Legislative Fund rates U.S. Senators and Representatives on their leadership and advocacy for animal rights. The scorecard tracks key votes, sponsorship, and co-sponsorship of important pro-animal legislation. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.29.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement marking the fifth Anniversary of passage of Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009: “Five years ago, I was proud to vote for the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, which extended basic protections against pay discrimination to women facing unfair treatment in the workplace. Women play a critical role in our economy, so Congress must do more to close the gender wage-gap and bring an end to employer discrimination once and for all. “Last night, President Obama highlighted the need for pay equity in his State of the Union address. Democrats in Congress remain committed to enacting reforms that will benefit families and the more than sixty-five million women that are part of the workforce in this country. Sadly, Republicans continue to push a legislative agenda that is hurtful to women, opposing efforts like Lilly Ledbetter while simultaneously choking off funding to programs that benefit needy families and supporting efforts that restrict access to women’s reproductive health care services. “As we mark the fifth anniversary of this important legislation, let us renew our efforts to promote wage-equality by passing legislation such as the Paycheck Fairness Act. Accepting anything less than equal pay for equal work is unacceptable.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.28.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement in response to President Barack Obama’s State of the Union address tonight: “Our nation is known across the globe as a land of opportunity, where hard work and dedication lead to a more prosperous future. Every American should have the chance to succeed, yet this vision of the American Dream has slipped further out of grasp for an overwhelming majority of families now struggling to get by. “Together, we have made great progress in creating jobs, expanding access to affordable health care, and improving educational opportunities for all. But it is not enough. Many of my constituents have felt the strains of economic insecurity long before the Great Recession, and many continue to lay awake at night – fearful for the future, and wondering when it will get better. “Tonight, President Obama outlined his vision for putting our country back on track. Growing income inequality threatens to drive a sharp and painful wedge into communities all across our nation. Without increases to our national minimum wage or new efforts to help more jobseekers find work, we will continue down this dangerous path. “With each passing day, more families face the threat of losing their home. With each passing day, our roads, bridges, ports, airports, and railways continue to degrade without adequate investments. And with each passing day, Americans burdened by long-term unemployment see little action in Congress to give them hope. “Looking abroad, we must also strive to advance a foreign policy that reflects our nation’s highest principles and advances our interests. We must be guided by the need to ensure the safety of the American people while working to alleviate human suffering, promote democracy and the fundamental human rights of all, and foster greater peace and stability around the world. From the ongoing humanitarian crisis in Syria that has killed more than 125,000 people and displaced 6.5 million, to the ongoing negotiations to dismantle Iran’s nuclear program, to our nation’s military and aid commitments, the United States must continue to exercise its leadership and engage the international community in finding solutions to global challenges. “Every Representative in Congress was sent to Washington to do what is best for the American people. Yet dysfunction and partisanship has become so entrenched that many challenges have gone unaddressed. This divide has already had serious consequences. Cuts to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) threaten the health and well-being of the one in seven impoverished Americans that rely upon the program for food and more than 1.5 million Americans have seen their lifeline cut loose by the expiration of emergency unemployment benefits. “With so many Americans and their families enduring difficult times, we cannot afford to wait any longer. Americans deserve peace of mind and a government that functions. It is time for Congress to get serious about moving our country forward.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.27.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking International Holocaust Remembrance Day, which is observed annually on the anniversary of the liberation of the Auschwitz–Birkenau concentration camps by Soviet Forces: “As we observe International Holocaust Remembrance Day, we reflect on the millions of lives tragically cut short during the worst genocide in human history. Today, we honor the memories of those who were lost by rededicating ourselves to the principles of fighting injustice, preventing new genocide, and standing up for the human rights of all people. “Worldwide, Auschwitz-Birkenau has become a symbol of both horror and evil. Yet the survivors of the Holocaust are a testament to the strength of the human spirit and the ability to persevere in times of great sorrow. Sadly, anti-Semitism still thrives around the world and violence against ethnic and religious groups persists. The lessons of the Holocaust must serve as a reminder to us all to stand up against persecution of any kind. “The United Nations (UN) has declared the theme of this year’s International Holocaust Remembrance Day to be 'Journeys through the Holocaust.' From incarceration in ghettos, to deportations to concentration camps, to liberation and freedom, the lives of all survivors of the Holocaust were transformed as they were forcefully moved from place to place. “As a representative of South Florida, which possesses one of the largest populations of Holocaust survivors in the world, I will continue to support efforts to protect human rights, promote equal opportunities in America and beyond, and defend human dignity across the globe. The memories of those who suffered and perished during the Holocaust must never be forgotten. Today, let us focus on how we can work to improve the world around us.” January 27, 2014 is the 69th anniversary of the liberation of the Auschwitz–Birkenau concentration camps. Between 1940 and 1945, approximately 1.3 million people were sent to Auschwitz. Of those, 1.1 million died there, including nearly 1 million Jews, 74,000 Poles, 21,000 Roma, and 15,000 Soviet prisoners of war. Approximately 11 million people were murdered, including 6 million Jews, by the time the Holocaust was ended. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.27.2014	Today, Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Steve Stivers (R-OH), along with 37 of their colleagues in Congress, sent the following letter to Secretary of State John Kerry, urging the State Department to re-establish Ahiska (Meskhetian) Turks – a distinct minority in Southern Russia – as a group of “special humanitarian concern” for Priority-Two (P-2) processing for refugee status. (Please also find below and attached a copy of the letter). Joining Hastings and Stivers as co-signers of the letter were (37): Reps. Mark Amodei, Earl Blumenauer, André Carson, Steve Chabot, Steve Cohen, Tom Cole, Gerald Connolly, John A. Culberson, Lloyd Doggett, Virginia Fox, Alan Grayson, Tim Griffin, Richard Hanna, Hakeem Jeffries, Eddie Bernice Johnson, Bill Johnson, David Joyce, Adam Kinzinger, Leonard Lance, John Lewis, Daniel Lipinski, Mark Meadows, Luke Messer, James Moran, Bill Pascrell, Scott Perry, Dutch Ruppersberger, Tim Ryan, Matt Salmon, Pete Sessions, Bill Shuster, Adam Smith, Steve Stockman, Michael Turner, Greg Walden, Ed Whitfield, and Joe Wilson. January 27, 2014 The Honorable John Kerry Secretary U.S. Department of State 2201 C Street, NW Washington, DC 20520 Dear Secretary Kerry: We write to urge the U.S. Department of State to re-establish Ahiska (Meskhetian) Turks, a distinct minority in Southern Russia, as a group of “special humanitarian concern” for Priority-Two (P-2) processing for refugee status. For nearly 70 years, the Ahiska Turkish community has faced statelessness, discrimination, and violent attacks in the former Soviet Union. Although the Ahiska Turkish diaspora, particularly in the United States, and various organizations have long advocated for resettlement assistance, the international community remains largely unresponsive. Most recently, media reports indicate that the Ahiska Turkish community is again being actively and severely persecuted as a distinct minority group in Southern Russia at every socio-economic and political level because of their ethnicity and religion, and we are concerned that the P-2 status, initiated in 2003 for Ahiska Turks, has been interrupted. As you may know, under the P-2 status, nearly 12,000 Ahiska Turks came to the United States between 2004 and 2007, settling in Ohio, Illinois, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Pennsylvania, New York, Oregon, Missouri, Kentucky, Texas, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Virginia, and many other states. This resilient community has been able to fully integrate into American society, and has proven itself to be a great asset in their new home states by becoming entrepreneurs and creating opportunities for others. Unfortunately, issues of human rights and the ethnic persecution of Ahiska Turks in Russia remain serious concerns. An October 2013 report by the European Commission Against Racism and Intolerance, which dedicates a section to Ahiska (Meskhetian) Turks, indicated the situation in Southern Russia remains “very bad” for ethnic minorities. The report also goes on to explain that human rights organizations’ efforts to monitor and report on the situation have been met with “hostility by the authorities, including criminal investigations and prosecutions.” Given the current human rights situation in Russia, especially continued reports of rising discrimination and harassment against certain minority groups, we fear that the conditions will not likely improve in the near future. Therefore, we believe it is time to reinstitute P-2 status for Ahiska Turks and continue to implement a successful refugee program that has not only improved the lives of refugees, but also enriched the communities they joined. We appreciate your prompt attention to our request and look forward to your reply regarding the restoration of P-2 status to Ahiska Turks. Sincerely, STEVE STIVERS Member of Congress ALCEE L. HASTINGS Member of Congress MARK AMODEI Member of Congress EARL BLUMENAUER Member of Congress ANDRÉ CARSON Member of Congress STEVE CHABOT Member of Congress STEVE COHEN Member of Congress TOM COLE Member of Congress GERALD CONNOLLY Member of Congress JOHN A. CULBERSON Member of Congress LLOYD DOGGETT Member of Congress VIRGINIA FOXX Member of Congress ALAN GRAYSON Member of Congress TIM GRIFFIN Member of Congress RICHARD HANNA Member of Congress HAKEEM JEFFRIES Member of Congress EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON Member of Congress BILL JOHNSON Member of Congress DAVID JOYCE Member of Congress ADAM KINZINGER Member of Congress LEONARD LANCE Member of Congress JOHN LEWIS Member of Congress DANIEL LIPINSKI Member of Congress MARK MEADOWS Member of Congress LUKE MESSER Member of Congress JAMES MORAN Member of Congress BILL PASCRELL Member of Congress SCOTT PERRY Member of Congress DUTCH RUPPERSBERGER Member of Congress TIM RYAN Member of Congress MATT SALMON Member of Congress PETE SESSIONS Member of Congress BILL SHUSTER Member of Congress ADAM SMITH Member of Congress STEVE STOCKMAN Member of Congress MICHAEL TURNER Member of Congress GREG WALDEN Member of Congress ED WHITFIELD Member of Congress JOE WILSON Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.27.2014	Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and David Schweikert (R-AZ), Co-Chairs of the Congressional Tunisia Caucus, released a joint statement on the Tunisian government’s official adoption of the country’s new constitution: “It is indeed a bright day for the Tunisian people. The overwhelming passage of Tunisia’s new constitution into law represents a significant step forward on the path to a strong, inclusive, and sustainable democracy. After two long years of negotiations, I applaud Tunisia’s political leaders for working to adopt a constitution that reflects a critical commitment to the freedom of belief and protection of minority rights. Tunisia continues to be a great friend to the United States, and I am proud to support this partnership as Co-Chair of the Congressional Tunisia Caucus during this momentous period of transition,” said Congressman Alcee L. Hastings. “Tunisia’s new constitution, which reflects freedom of conscience and belief, and equality between the sexes, stands as a model for the region. I hope this day is remembered in stark contradiction to the violence and turmoil that befell North Africa and the Middle East following uprisings in 2011,” said Congressman David Schweikert. “While there is more work to be done in strengthening Tunisia’s newly minted democracy, today marks a promising step and I look forward to working with the Tunisian Government and to strengthen U.S. - Tunisian relations,” further added Schweikert. Representatives Hastings and Schweikert registered the Congressional Tunisian Caucus in the summer of 2013. Since its inception, the Caucus has worked to inform policy makers of the democratic transition in Tunisia while strengthening bilateral relations between the United States and Tunisia. ###
01.22.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking the 41st anniversary of Roe v. Wade: “I believe that every woman has the right to make her own health care decisions, and Roe v. Wade was a great victory affirming that right. “Recently, there has been a surge in Republican efforts in Congress, as well as states across the country to restrict women’s reproductive choices. Many states have imposed intrusive and un-constitutional requirements for women receiving these services, and next week, House Republicans will once again attempt to legislate this issue when they have no business doing so. “As we mark the anniversary of Roe v. Wade, we must continue to protect women’s rights in the face of new threats to reproductive health services. Abortion services should be safe, legal, and rare, and I fully support efforts and policies to reduce unintended and unwanted pregnancies. I will continue to advocate for women’s rights and reproductive freedoms here at home and abroad.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.21.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking the fourth anniversary of the Supreme Court’s Citizen’s United v. Federal Election Commission ruling: “Four years ago, the Supreme Court’s decision in Citizens United gave corporations and special interests the ability to pour unlimited amounts of money into political campaigns, drastically changing the face of elections in our country. “Americans have already seen the effects of this devastating ruling. During the last election cycle, Super PACs spent more than half a billion dollars propping up or tearing down candidates. This torrent of spending drowns out the voices of everyday Americans, skews our government away from the public’s interest, and undermines the foundation of our democratic process. “We must continue to fight against efforts to weaken the voices of everyday Americans. With common-sense election reforms, our political process can be fairer, more transparent, and more inclusive. “As we mark the fourth anniversary of Citizens United, I remain committed to enacting critical new reforms that will empower the American voter and restore accountability to our nation’s electoral process.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.20.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement in commemoration of Martin Luther King, Jr. Day and the National Day of Service, which honor the life and legacy of the civil rights leader: “Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. once said that ‘life's most persistent and urgent question is, ‘What are you doing for others?’ Today, we honor his commitment to achieving equality and improving the lives of all Americans, while knowing that the struggle for equal rights is far from over. “Even as we celebrate Dr. King’s message of peace, we must remain vigilant against new threats in the ongoing struggle to end prejudice and discrimination in our nation. Disparities in employment and wealth still persist among American communities of color, and millions continue to struggle with significant economic hardships. “I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to address critical issues such as extending emergency unemployment benefits and addressing the devastating cuts recently made to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). These programs serve as vital safety nets for American families and must be preserved. “Today, and every day, let us continue to strive for a more prosperous future for all. Together, we can transform our nation into the one that Dr. King dreamed it could be.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.15.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after Senate Republicans blocked two votes yesterday to restore emergency unemployment benefits, which lapsed on January 1, 2014: “Helping others in need is a fundamental American principle – one that Republicans seem to have lost sight of. Congress must act quickly to provide aid to the families and individuals that have seen their unemployment benefits vanish, because of their inaction. “Withholding critical aid to the nearly 1.5 million Americans facing long-term unemployment in an attempt to force concessions from Democrats is both cruel and shameful. All Republicans have done is reassured the American people that hyper-partisanship is still their top priority in 2014.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.15.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after the City of Pompano Beach was approved for a $4,308,000 loan guarantee by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The funds will be used to make important infrastructure improvements that are part of the City’s Dixie East Transit Oriented Development Plan. “I am pleased to congratulate Mayor Fisher and the City of Pompano Beach on being awarded a $4.3 million loan guarantee by HUD to make important improvements to local roads. These investments will greatly benefit the residents of Pompano Beach and go a long way in reducing traffic, addressing chronic flooding, and improving pedestrian and motorist safety. “Programs like the Loan Guarantee Assistance Program are important resources for communities like Pompano Beach. By guaranteeing loans with reduced interest rates for revitalization and redevelopment projects, these investments help towns and cities across America create jobs and stimulate economic growth.” The funds will be awarded under Section 108 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 and go towards repairs on six streets in Old Pompano, including water, sewer, signing and pavement markings; new landscaping and irrigation; lighting; and reclaimed water utility improvements. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.14.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking the fourth anniversary of the 7.0 magnitude earthquake that devastated Haiti on January 12, 2010: “Tragically, over 200,000 Haitians were killed and millions more were affected by the catastrophic 7.0 magnitude earthquake that struck Haiti on January 12, 2010. The devastation left Haiti’s infrastructure completely destroyed and its citizens vulnerable. Four years later, approximately 150,000 Haitians still live under deplorable conditions in the country’s infamous tent camps, and tens of thousands have had no other alternative but to live in unsafe, makeshift shelters that comprise the informal settlements around Port-au-Prince. “The international community rallied behind the people of Haiti in the days following this tremendous disaster, sending food supplies, medical, and other critical assistance. Yet, despite the outpouring of support, Haitians continue to struggle through hardship in the aftermath of the earthquake. In particular, cholera continues to endanger Haiti’s public health, and the United Nations should not only take legal responsibility for the actions of its peacekeepers in contributing to the epidemic, but provide greater support for the implementation of the National Plan for the Elimination of Cholera in Haiti. “We must do more to help Haiti in accelerate its lagging recovery, promote the rule of law and human rights, and restore clean water, proper sanitation, and power. Furthermore, the Administration can take immediate steps to save lives and reunite families by allowing nearly 110,000 Haitians with approved family-based petitions to come to the United States while awaiting their visas, a process which can take up to 12 years as a result of arbitrary per country limits. As I have called for repeatedly since the earthquake, a Haitian Family Reunification Parole Program should be created so that these individuals can join their families in the United States and work to actively assist in Haiti’s recovery. “The people of Haiti are incredibly resilient and eager to take control of their future. As we remember all those who were lost and impacted by the earthquake, let us not forget our commitment to our Haitian friends. In Congress, I will continue to stand beside the Haitian people in their recovery efforts.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.14.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement following the inclusion of provisions in the 2014 Omnibus spending bill temporarily delaying increases in flood insurance premiums. The hikes in insurance rates are due to recent remapping by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The $1.1 trillion Omnibus is expected to be approved by Congress later this week and would fund the government through the end of September 2014. “I am pleased that the Omnibus bill includes provisions to postpone the exorbitant rate hikes facing millions of Americans. While this is by no means a permanent fix, this delay will provide an opportunity for FEMA to work Congress on fixing the National Flood Insurance Program deficiencies. “Florida holds nearly 40 percent of the nation’s flood policies and faces some of the most significant effects from rising flood insurance rates. Delaying the implementation of the new FEMA maps will protect thousands of policyholders in my district and many more Floridians from more expensive premiums for the foreseeable future. I am confident that FEMA will find a way to bring relief to the millions of Americans facing rising flood insurance premiums.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.11.2014	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the passing of former Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon: “It is with a heavy heart and great sadness that I learned of the passing of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon. He was a man of great courage and resolve, and his legacy will not be forgotten. “For more than five decades, Prime Minister Sharon stood at the helm of the State of Israel as both a military leader and a statesman. His extraordinary vision and commitment to security and peace strengthened Israel, and undeniably transformed the Middle East. “Prime Minister Sharon was a great friend to the United States. I am honored to have known him as a friend and to have worked with him to strengthen the unbreakable bond between our two nations. During these challenging times, the American people stand shoulder-to-shoulder with the people of Israel. “I offer my profound sympathies and deepest condolences to Prime Minister Sharon’s family and the Israeli people during this great time of sadness.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.28.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after emergency unemployment benefits lapsed for the first time since 2008: “Republicans should be ashamed of themselves for having left so many Americans out in the cold this holiday season. “Starting today, an estimated 1.3 million Americans will face new hardships because of Republicans’ failure to extend unemployment benefits. Millions more may lose their unemployment in the upcoming year, if Republicans do not allow Congress to extend these vital benefits. “Unemployment compensation is neither reckless nor wasteful spending – it is a lifeline for millions of families struggling to recover from the worst economic recession of our time. Congress’ first order of business in the new year must be to address this failure, and to ensure that Americans facing difficult times are provided with the support they need as they continue to look for work.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.18.2013	Today, Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Bill Posey (R-FL), along with 14 members of the Florida Congressional delegation, sent the following letter to Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) Director Richard Cordray, expressing concerns regarding the agency’s March 21, 2013 guidance and its potential impact on the auto dealer industry, indirect vehicle financing market, and consumers nationwide. (Please also find below and attached a copy of the letter). Joining Hastings and Posey as co-signers of the letter were: (14) Reps. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Corrine Brown, John L. Mica, Jeff Miller, Mario Diaz-Balart, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Theodore E. Deutch, Richard B. Nugent, Dennis A. Ross, Frederica S. Wilson, Ron DeSantis, Lois Frankel, Joe Garcia, and Patrick E. Murphy The National Automobile Dealers Association (NADA) supported the letter. December 18, 2013 The Honorable Richard Cordray Director Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 1700 G Street, NW Washington, DC 20552 Dear Director Cordray: As members of the Florida Congressional delegation, we write to express our concerns regarding guidance issued by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) on March 21, 2013 that could negatively impact the auto dealer industry, indirect vehicle financing market, and consumers in our state and nationwide. It is our understanding that the CFPB issued this guidance based on an assessment of disparate impact under the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA), and that it believes there to be the potential for pricing disparities based on race, national origin, and other prohibited factors. Allegations of discriminatory lending practices are deeply troubling, and therefore it is extremely important that we understand the methodologies and analyses used to reach this conclusion. With that in mind, we ask that the CFPB fully respond to all Congressional requests for the raw data and specific methodology used to determine instances of “disparate impact” and formulate the new guidance. The auto dealer industry contributes greatly to our nation’s economy and that of our state and local communities. In particular, auto dealer sales represent about $47 billion annually. Florida ranks as the third-largest state in the country in terms of number of vehicles, the sale of which account for 16 percent of retail sales tax. Furthermore, there are approximately 850 new car dealers in Florida, providing tens of thousands of direct jobs and supporting millions more in related sectors. Auto lending, including the indirect auto financing market, helps many hardworking individuals afford the vehicles they need to access job opportunities and support their families. As a result of the CFPB’s new guidance, we understand that 17,000 price discounters stand to be eliminated from the auto finance marketplace. Prior to the CFPB’s fair lending guidance bulletin, auto dealers have been able to offer consumers a competitive interest rate through indirect vehicle financing with a third-party lender, such as a bank, credit union, or other financial institution. The ability of auto dealers to negotiate their retail margin in order to provide this service empowers consumers to make an informed decision regarding their financing options. Frequently, it results in them obtaining a lower cost of credit than they would otherwise be able to secure from other creditors. Although the compensation afforded to auto dealers is capped by contract, the totality of the CFPB’s guidance, press release, and reported enforcement actions suggests efforts to remove or significantly limit an auto dealer’s ability to negotiate competitive financing for their customers, and pressure lenders to replace the system of compensation with a flat fee per transaction or other mechanism. We have a responsibility to ensure that consumers are best served by a competitive and efficient credit market. While we commend the CFPB for its commitment to addressing unlawful lending practices, we are concerned that Congress has yet to be provided with the complete data and other information necessary to conduct proper oversight of this matter. For example, we note that it is unclear from your responses to date whether the Bureau is including the amount financed amongst the “appropriate analytical controls” used to determine whether a specific policy results in unlawful differences on a prohibited basis. We fear that the CFPB’s decision to issue guidance, without public comment or a formal rulemaking process, will significantly restrict consumer choice and services. As you know, a bipartisan majority of the House Financial Services Committee, as well as 22 of our colleagues in the Senate, have written to you expressing similar concerns. We share their request for specific explanations detailing the CFPB’s assessment of disparate impact in the indirect auto financing market, especially the extent to which it studied and considered the potential effects of its guidance on the cost of credit to consumers, auto dealers, and competition in the auto loan market. In order to meet the highest levels of transparency and maximize access to credit for consumers in a manner that is fair and equitable, we urge the CFPB to respond to the aforementioned Congressional inquiries as soon as possible. Without finality regarding this guidance, consumers will ultimately bear the cost as auto dealers will remain restricted in their ability to offer them the most competitive auto loan rates. We thank you for your cooperation and look forward to your response. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Bill Posey Member of Congress Ileana Ros-Lehtinen Member of Congress Corrine Brown Member of Congress John L. Mica Member of Congress Jeff Miller Member of Congress Mario Diaz-Balart Member of Congress Debbie Wasserman Schultz Member of Congress Theodore E. Deutch Member of Congress Richard B. Nugent Member of Congress Dennis A. Ross Member of Congress Frederica S. Wilson Member of Congress Ron DeSantis Member of Congress Lois Frankel Member of Congress Joe Garcia Member of Congress Patrick E. Murphy Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.12.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after receiving the First Focus Campaign for Children’s “Defenders of Children” award. First Focus honors the top 100 Members of Congress every year for leadership on issues important to the education and development of our nation’s children. “I am proud to accept this year’s Defenders of Children award from the First Focus Campaign for Children. Issues affecting children are critical, and Congress must continue to act to reduce child poverty, improve children’s health and nutrition, and increase access to quality education. “No child should live without a home, and no child should live in fear of abuse or neglect. Every child deserves the opportunity to reach his or her full potential. As co-chair of the Congressional Homelessness Caucus and a member of the Congressional Foster Youth Caucus, as well as the Congressional Children's Caucus, I have made improving the well-being of our nation’s children one of my top priorities in Congress. “I will continue to advocate for our nation’s future generations, be it better schools, increased access to health services, or working towards putting an end to childhood and family homelessness once and for all.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.05.2013	Today, Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Vern Buchanan (R-FL), Co-Chairs of the Florida Delegation, sent a letter to Governors Phil Bryant of Mississippi, Rick Scott of Florida, Robert J. Bentley of Alabama, Bobby Jindal of Louisiana, Nikki Haley of South Carolina, and Deval Patrick of Massachusetts, expressing support for their federal lawsuit challenging the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) decision to unilaterally raise flood insurance premiums before completing an affordability study as mandated by law. (Please see below and attached a copy of the letter). December 5, 2013 The Honorable Phil Bryant Governor of Mississippi Office of the Governor P.O. Box 139 Jackson, MS 39205 Dear Governor Bryant: As co-chairs of Florida’s U.S. Congressional delegation, we are writing to express our strong support for your federal lawsuit challenging the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) decision to unilaterally raise flood insurance premiums before completing an affordability study as mandated by law. We stand ready to assist your request for an injunction overturning FEMA’s action. Hundreds of thousands of Floridians and millions more nationwide are experiencing untenable rate hikes that, if left unchecked, threaten to wash away property values and push people out of their homes. Section 100236 of the Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Reform Act, passed into law on July 6, 2012, explicitly instructed FEMA’s administrator to submit an affordability study to Congress “not later than 270 days of enactment of this Act.” Today marks day 518 and FEMA Director Craig Fugate has yet to deliver an economic analysis of the new rate changes for congressional review. While Biggert-Waters was designed to bring financial stability to the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), it was not the intent of Congress to do so in a manner that would force people from their homes and businesses. As your lawsuit accurately states, FEMA’s failure to conduct a study in the time mandated constitutes a blatant violation of the letter and spirit of the law. Common sense alone dictates that FEMA should complete the mandatory affordability study prior to implementing any rate increases. The adverse effects of skyrocketing premium costs are especially felt in Florida which holds 40 percent of the nation’s flood policies. Graham and Jill Edwards of Sarasota, for example, purchased a property less than one year ago with a flood insurance premium of $988 per year. Today, courtesy of the new rate hikes, they are now paying a $5,600 premium -- a 467 percent increase. This is unacceptable. There is no question that reforms are necessary to enhance the solvency of the NFIP, but it should not come at the economic expense of countless communities throughout our region. The federal government should be focused on getting Americans back to work, not making it more difficult for people to buy homes or meet their insurance payments. Please let us know if we can be of any help in your legal challenge to FEMA’s wrongful actions. Sincerely, Vern Buchanan Member of Congress Alcee Hastings Member of Congress cc: The Honorable Rick Scott, Governor of Florida The Honorable Robert J. Bentley, Governor of Alabama The Honorable Bobby Jindal, Governor of Louisiana The Honorable Nikki Haley, Governor of South Carolina The Honorable Deval Patrick, Governor of Massachusetts Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.05.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement after reintroducing the National Commission on Employment and Economic Security Act. Joining him as original co-sponsors of the resolution were Representatives John Conyers Jr. (MI-13) and Barbara Lee (CA-13). (Please see a copy of the legislation attached). “I am pleased to reintroduce the National Commission on Employment and Economic Security Act, legislation that establishes a national commission to examine the issues of economic and psychological insecurity within our workforce that have been caused by employment displacement,” said Congressman Hastings. “When Americans lose their jobs and their incomes shrink, too often, they face the loss of their family’s health insurance and, subsequent to the loss of income, even their housing. The mental health of the American worker is integral as we continue down the road of economic recovery.” “I am a proud original co-sponsor of the National Commission on Unemployment and Economic Security Act. While we are still recovering from the greatest recession since the Great Depression, unemployment numbers are unacceptably high, income inequality is growing, and our nation’s promise of opportunity is slipping from view, this bill would address those concerns and help to ensure that we have an economy that works for all,” added Congresswoman Lee. “With the ongoing jobs crisis in America, I am fully supportive of the re-introduction of the National Commission on Employment and Economic Security Act, which will study the impact of unemployment and economic insecurity Americans face and then offer remedies. Over the last year a quarter of the American population was unemployed or underemployed, and did not earn enough to support their basic needs. We must act to curtail these circumstances before they become entrenched and systemic. I truly believe this is a measure both parties can come together to support and shed light on the real effect and devastation unemployment causes, and in turn lead the Congress to work on legislation that creates jobs for all Americans,” said Congressman Conyers. “Luckily, we are on the road to recovery from the recession that began in 2007, and 7.8 million jobs have been created during 45 straight months of private-sector job growth across the country. Our economy is recovering, but the need for this vital research is no less critical. Congress must face this problem head on,” concluded Hastings. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.05.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings made the following statement commemorating the life of Nelson Mandela: “Today, the world mourns the loss of a great leader, a Nobel laureate, and a champion of equality. A commanding advocate for equal rights and opportunities, Nelson Mandela led the charge against institutional racism and discrimination in South Africa, fighting apartheid and fostering an era of peace and reconciliation. Truly, the name Nelson Mandela has become synonymous with peace, justice, and the most steadfast perseverance. “The outpouring of support across the globe for President Mandela is a testament to his integrity and fortitude. I have no doubt that his name will live on for generations to come. I join with the people of South Africa and the world in honoring his remarkable life, and offer my thoughts and prayers to President Mandela’s family and country in this time of sadness.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.04.2013	Today, Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX) sent the following letter to Congressman Collin Peterson, Ranking Democratic Member of the House Committee on Agriculture, and Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, opposing additional cuts to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) in the 2013 Farm Bill conference report. (Please see below and attached a copy of the letter). Joining Hastings and Johnson in signing the letter were (19): Representatives John Conyers (D-MI), Charles B. Rangel (D-NY), Rosa L. DeLauro (D-CT), Luis Gutierrez (D-IL), Adam Smith (D-WA), Robert A. Brady (D-PA), Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), Janice D. Schakowsky (D-IL), Madeleine Z. Bordallo (D-GU), Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ), Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY), Kathy Castor (D-FL), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. (D-GA), Niki Tsongas (D-MA), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Carol Shea-Porter (D-NH), and Jared Huffman (D-CA). December 4, 2013 The Honorable Debbie Stabenow Chairwoman Senate Committee on Agriculture 328A Russell Building Washington, DC 20510 The Honorable Collin Peterson Ranking Member House Committee on Agriculture 1301 Longworth Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairwoman Stabenow and Ranking Member Peterson: We write to express our strong opposition to reductions in funding for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) as part of any reconciliation between the House and Senate versions of the 2013 Farm Bill. We believe SNAP is an indispensable program for the nearly 50 million Americans that rely on it, and as the Conference Committee works towards a final version of the Farm Bill, we urge you to oppose a final conference report that would make hunger in America worse. As you are aware, an $11 billion cut to SNAP recently took effect after expanded funding within the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 expired on November 1, 2013. These cuts will negatively impact one in every seven Americans. For millions of struggling families, seniors, children, and disabled Americans, this reduction in funding will effectively keep food off of the table. More than 80 percent of SNAP participants already live in poverty, and it is estimated that this cut alone will force beneficiaries of the program to forego up to 21 meals every single month. Speaker of the House John Boehner and some Members in the House of Representatives have already indicated their desire for additional cuts to SNAP. Just two months ago, H.R. 3102, the Nutrition Reform and Work Opportunity Act of 2013, passed the House on a party line vote, slashing an additional $39 billion funding from SNAP – nearly 10 times the amount agreed to in the bi-partisan compromise passed in the Senate. We believe cuts of this level would be catastrophic for the families that rely on SNAP, as well as the many at risk groups that rely on the program. We are particularly alarmed at the impact that reductions in SNAP would have on Americans living in poverty or without a home. Homeless and impoverished Americans already struggle to make ends meet on a day to day basis, and for some, everyday life is a struggle for survival. Every day, homeless Americans face constant instability and must cope with difficult and often unhealthy lifestyles. For those living without permanent housing, everyday life is extremely difficult. Storing and preparing food is nearly impossible, and much of the homeless population relies on temporary shelters and soup kitchens to survive. For some, panhandling or scavenging through the trash is the only way to provide food for the day. SNAP benefits provide these individuals with a limited opportunity to obtain nourishment, and cutting funding for the program will only add to the difficulties these individuals face. We believe that we must do all we can to ease the burdens faced by these individuals, starting with providing basic nutritional support, to give as many of them as possible a chance to re-enter society. Additionally, one of our nation’s national priorities must be to ensure that impoverished families and individuals currently on the edge of homelessness do not end up without shelter. For many families with limited resources living close to or at the poverty level, the loss of SNAP benefits would severely increase daily hardships. For many of these families, cuts to food benefits will force them to choose between food and rent, or push them out of the SNAP program altogether. Undoubtedly, this will result in an increased number of homeless Americans. We are aware that any compromise proposed by the conference committee will need to pass both Chambers of Congress, which will not be possible without bipartisan cooperation. This only underscores the importance of not resorting to drastic programmatic cuts to SNAP in the name of fiscal responsibility. There are most certainly other ways to cut our national deficit that do not result in 50 million empty stomachs. Once again, we urge you to oppose reductions in SNAP funding that make hunger worse in any reconciliation between the House and Senate versions of the 2013 Farm Bill. Thank you for your consideration in this important matter. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Eddie Bernice Johnson Member of Congress John Conyers Member of Congress Charles B. Rangel Member of Congress Rosa L. DeLauro Member of Congress Luis Gutierrez Member of Congress Adam Smith Member of Congress Robert A. Brady Member of Congress Gregory W. Meeks Member of Congress Janice D. Schakowsky Member of Congress Madeleine Z. Bordallo Member of Congress Raúl M. Grijalva Member of Congress Yvette D. Clarke Member of Congress Kathy Castor Member of Congress Keith Ellison Member of Congress Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. Member of Congress Niki Tsongas Member of Congress Ted Deutch Member of Congress Suzanne Bonamici Member of Congress Carol Shea-Porter Member of Congress Jared Huffman Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.01.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in recognition of the 25th annual World AIDS Day: “Twenty-five years after observing the first World AIDS Day, we find ourselves at a turning point in the ongoing struggle against this devastating disease. On one hand, AIDS remains a significant public health challenge here at home and abroad. The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that more than 35.3 million people around the world are currently living with HIV, with an estimated 2.3 million people newly infected in 2012 alone. “However, thanks to scientific advancements and the tireless dedication of countless individuals, an AIDS-free generation is truly within our grasp. Between increasing access to treatment and reducing new HIV infections, it is suggested that we could achieve the beginning of the end of AIDS as early as 2015. In fact, 16 African countries have already surpassed the tipping point of their epidemics, with more new patients receiving treatment than the annual number of new HIV infections. “While the annual number of new HIV infections in the United States has remained relatively stable in recent years, the pace of new infections continues to be significantly high, particularly for certain groups. Men who have sex with men (MSM) bear the greatest burden of HIV infection, while African Americans, Hispanics/Latinos, and young people are disproportionately impacted. Furthermore, only about one in three individuals living with HIV is receiving anti-retroviral treatment, and fewer still are able to adhere to their treatment and sustain undetectable viral loads. “Achieving the beginning of the end of AIDS will take a renewed commitment to expanding access to testing, treatment, and care, as well as to raising public awareness. On November 19, 2013, the U.S. House of Representatives passed under suspension of the rules S. 1545, the PEPFAR Stewardship and Oversight Act of 2013. PEPFAR, the ‘President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief,’ is now in its tenth year of successfully saving millions of lives. In 2012, approximately 5.1 million people received treatment through this vitally important program, and more than 46.5 million people in total have received testing and counseling thanks to PEPFAR. “As we mark the 25th annual World AIDS Day, we have the knowledge and resources to make a world without AIDS a reality. Ultimately, bringing an end to AIDS will require greater leadership and coordination in order to increase support for the implementation of effective treatment and prevention programs. Therefore, it is especially critical that we address sequestration, which is hampering HIV care in the United States at a time when the number of AIDS patients is increasing.” Congressman Hastings is a staunch advocate for the HIV/AIDS community and a member of the Congressional HIV/AIDS Caucus. In the 113th Congress, he continues to support robust funding for PEPFAR and the Global Fund, the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program, AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP), Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA) Program, Minority HIV/AIDS Initiative, and National AIDS Strategy, as well as HIV/AIDS research. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.25.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement recognizing the International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women: “Today, nations all around the world are observing the International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women. Violence against women remains a global pandemic, and seven out of every ten women worldwide will experience violence or abuse in their lifetime. “Up to two million people, 80 percent of whom are women, are trafficked annually and forced into prostitution or domestic servitude. Furthermore, nearly 50 percent of sexual assaults across the globe are committed against girls under the age of 16, and more than 130 million girls and women have undergone female genital mutilation, predominately in countries throughout Africa and the Middle East. “Thankfully, in the United States, the number of cases of domestic violence has declined in recent years. Despite these reductions, however, domestic violence remains the most prevalent and underreported form of abuse against women, and there are still millions of cases each and every year. Approximately one in four women in the United States will experience domestic violence during their lifetime. Many women living in low-income households and individuals in Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) relationships experience violence and abuse at even higher rates. “It is essential that we continue to address these staggering figures as quickly and comprehensively as possible. As a Member of Congress, I will continue to advocate for the thousands of victims of domestic abuse throughout our country, and will work tirelessly to support and implement policies that will further reduce abuse here at home and abroad. As we observe the International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women, let us reflect on the progress we have made, and rededicate ourselves to bringing an end to the mistreatment of women and girls.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.23.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement in honor of National Adoption Day: “Every year on the Saturday before Thanksgiving, thousands of families across the country finalize the adoptions of children in the foster care system. Since 2000, nearly 40,000 adoptions have taken place on National Adoption Day, and this year, the National Adoption Day Coalition expects 4,500 children to be formally adopted by the end of the day. “Today, I am especially proud to honor the thousands of men and women that have provided loving homes for children in need, and the families that have been created as a result. For the thousands of children that are adopted each year, having the unconditional love and support of a family is a dream come true. “As a member of the Congressional Foster Youth Caucus, I am committed to the well-being and ultimate adoption of the more than 20,000 children in the foster care system in the State of Florida, and the more than 100,000 children waiting to be adopted in foster care systems across the country. Almost all of these children will wait for more than three and a half years to be adopted, and hundreds will age out of the foster care system before finding adoptive parents. We must do all that we can to give these children the support each and every one of them deserve.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.20.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following remarks in observance of the 15th Annual Transgender Day of Remembrance, which were entered into the Congressional Record: “M. Speaker, I rise today in observance of the 15th Annual Transgender Day of Remembrance. “Fifteen years ago, the tragic murder of transgender musician Rita Hester in Boston offered our nation a glimpse into the daily struggle and injustice suffered by transgender Americans. In honor of her memory, transgender activist Gwendolyn Ann Smith founded the first Transgender Day of Remembrance in 1998 as an occasion to remember all those who have been lost due to violence and prejudice against transgender and gender non-conforming individuals. Despite significant advances in the struggle for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) equality in recent years, many people do not realize or recognize that transphobia exists, and transgender individuals continue to face discrimination in every major aspect of their day-to-day lives. “Tragically, members of the transgender community are too often the victims of hate-motivated violence. Each year around the world, hundreds of transgender individuals of all ages – particularly transgender women of color –are brutally attacked, injured, or murdered simply because of who they are, and the list of names to memorialize grows ever longer. In 2013 alone, this figure topped 238 lives lost, but we know that the real number of deaths is much higher as many cases go unreported and uninvestigated. “All people deserve to be treated with dignity and respect, as well as live free from fear of discrimination and harm. For transgender individuals, the lack of access to culturally competent health care, disproportionate rates of poverty and homelessness, resorting to survival sex or attempting suicide, maltreatment by law enforcement, and employment discrimination remain serious challenges to their well-being. As a nation, we must do more to address these issues, root out stigma and racism, and foster greater inclusion in our society. “At the federal level, one of the immediate steps that we can take to protect the rights of transgender individuals is to pass the Employment Non-Discrimination Act of 2013 (ENDA), a bi-partisan measure that strengthens basic employment protections for all Americans and, in my opinion, is long overdue. On November 7, 2013, the Senate sent a clear message that employer discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity should be outlawed when it passed ENDA by a vote of 64-32. I urge Speaker Boehner to reconsider his position and allow the House to vote on passage of a fully inclusive ENDA as soon as possible. “M. Speaker, transgender rights are human rights. As we observe the 15th Annual Transgender Day of Remembrance, let us not only remember the lives of all those whom we have lost to transphobic hate, but honor their memory and sacrifice by recommitting ourselves to making a difference in the lives of LGBT individuals and other vulnerable communities as a whole. I will continue working tirelessly with my colleagues in Congress, the Obama administration, and civil rights advocates to ensure that our laws recognize LGBT persons and provide them with equal opportunities to succeed.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.20.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after hosting a screening and discussion of The List. The film documents the efforts of Kirk Johnson, a former employee of the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) mission in Iraq and founder of The List Project. Kirk Johnson and film Director Beth Murphy joined Congressman Hastings at the screening for a discussion of the Iraqi Special Immigrant Visa Program backlog. “The United States completed its military withdrawal from Iraq in December 2011, and for many the conflict is quickly fading from memory. However, for the tens of thousands of Iraqis who risked their lives assisting American forces, everyday life remains perilous. Iraqi citizens were vital to the success of the U.S. mission. Now, their lives – and the lives of their loved ones – are constantly in danger. “Since 2007, Kirk has worked tirelessly to bring greater attention to the plight of our Iraqi allies who remain in harm’s way. He has succeeded in resettling nearly 1,500 Iraqis who fled their country out of fear or violence, and his list continues to grow. I am proud of the work he has done and honored to welcome him to the capitol today for this important discussion. “A mere 7,000 Special Immigrant Visas have been awarded and 18,000 remain unclaimed. I am pleased that the program was recently extended through December 2013, and hope the backlog in claims can be thoroughly addressed during this time. As we accelerate in our withdrawal from Afghanistan, the interpreters who aided our troops there face the same nightmares as our allies in Iraq. The situation will only grow more urgent in the coming months, and we must remain committed to protecting our friends in the region that are now in danger.” The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) reported that roughly 70,000 Iraqis worked for U.S. government agencies or their contractors in Iraq as of August 2008. The Department of Defense (DOD) estimates that over 36,000 Iraqis worked with American forces in 2009. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.19.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement after introducing a resolution in recognition of people of African descent and Black Europeans, and outlining concrete steps for the United States to take to help address racism and discrimination in Europe (Please find attached a copy of the resolution): “An estimated seven to ten million individuals of African descent currently live in Europe, particularly in France, the United Kingdom, and the Netherlands, and form an influential part of the African diaspora. From labor and scholarship to politics and civil rights, they have contributed greatly to European history and culture over the past several centuries. However, the story of Black Europeans remains widely untold, rendering many of their past and present contributions to the political and social life of Europe invisible or forgotten. Furthermore, similar to the experiences of many African Americans, they have increasingly become the targets of discrimination, pernicious racial profiling, and violent hate crimes impacting equal access to housing, employment, education, and justice. “This week, it was my great privilege and honor to welcome to Washington, D.C. an Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe Office of Democratic Institutions and Human Rights (OSCE/ODIHR) delegation of Black European Rights Leaders representing 10 countries in Europe, and preside as Ranking Democratic Member over a U.S. Helsinki Commission briefing, entitled ‘Europeans of African Decent ‘Black Europeans’: Race, Rights, and Politics.’ Building on past and current initiatives, the purpose of the delegation’s visit was to shed light on the experiences of Black Europeans in the face of ongoing racism and discrimination, specifically with regard to their representation in leadership positions and political participation. Their personal testimonies offered a raw and honest glimpse into the realities of many Blacks living in Europe, and provided an opportunity for lawmakers, human rights advocates, and others to interface on solutions to addressing issues of inequality, discrimination, and inclusion in the 57 North American and European countries that make up the region of the OSCE. “Cooperation is key to addressing the global problems of racism and discrimination. I was pleased to introduce today a resolution recognizing people of African descent, and particularly Europe’s Black community and political leaders. Among other things, the resolution calls for the adoption of a Joint US-European Union Action Plan to develop transatlantic solutions to combat racial discrimination and promote racial equality in Europe. I believe that our government can do more to help advance human rights and inclusion, including more partnerships with Black European communities and the public and private sectors; increased parliamentary activities such as legislation and policy, speaking out against racism, and increasing the political participation of racial minorities; and working with the State Department and U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID). “This resolution reaffirms the importance of inclusion and the full and equal participation of people of African descent around the world in all aspects of political, economic, social, and cultural life. As we continue working to strengthen our democracy and root out racism and discrimination here at home, I encourage all my colleagues in Congress to join me in recognizing and celebrating the collective history and achievements made by people of African descent.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.18.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement in commemoration of National Hunger and Homelessness Awareness Week: “Each year, we set aside the week before the Thanksgiving to mark National Hunger and Homelessness Awareness Week. This year’s theme, “Bringing America Home,” reflects both the progress we have made in reducing hunger and homelessness and also the work that remains to ensure every American access to the most basic human needs. “As a member of the Congressional Hunger Caucus and Co-Chair of the Congressional Homelessness Caucus, the issues of homelessness and hunger remain among my top priorities in Congress. I am particularly alarmed by the impact that recent and future reductions in funding for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) will have on Americans living in poverty or without a home. Homeless and impoverished Americans already struggle to make ends meet on a day-to-day basis, and I believe that we have a moral obligation to do whatever we can to assist those in need. “I commend the hundreds of schools, organizations, non-profits, as well as community and faith groups that come together every year during National Hunger and Homelessness Awareness Week to bring renewed attention to the goal of working to end hunger and homelessness in America. Together, we will continue to make progress in ensuring that all Americans have food to eat and permanent shelter over their heads.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.17.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in commemoration of this year’s World Day of Remembrance for Road Traffic Victims: “Today, we remember the lives of loved ones lost in road crashes all over the world. These devastating accidents are often sudden, traumatic events that leave family members, friends, and communities asking themselves how such tragedies could have been avoided. “In October 2005, the United Nations General Assembly adopted a resolution calling for governments to mark the third Sunday in November of each year as the World Day of Remembrance for Road Traffic Victims. This year’s theme is ‘Let’s Have Roads that are Safe for All,’ reminding us of the critical need for safer highway infrastructure and sustainable urban planning to keep everyone out of harm when driving, biking, or walking on the street. Road safety is a shared responsibility that concerns everyone, including government, industry, non-governmental organizations, international agencies, and everyday citizens. “From 2006 to 2010, an average of 37,600 Americans lost their lives every year on our nation’s roads. First responders and medical professionals are to be commended for their tireless dedication to treat the injuries of accident victims. Fortunately, we have seen the number of traffic deaths continue to decline due to improved road safety programs, yet we can all take greater steps to help reduce road traffic deaths further. “Road traffic crashes are frequently predictable and preventable. Many countries have already made significant progress in reducing their number of crashes and casualties through education and the implementation of smarter, safer policies. More than two years into the Decade of Action for Road Safety, I remain committed to supporting sustainable road safety programs and partnerships to save lives and minimize crash-related injuries, and as we celebrate the World Day of Remembrance for Road Traffic Victims, I encourage all Americans to be extra mindful when on the road.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.13.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following remarks at a food drive organized by the Hoops for Youth Foundation and the American League of Lobbyists: “As I came to work this morning, I found myself thinking about how the holiday season seems to come earlier and earlier every year. It’s already mid-November, and we are quickly approaching Thanksgiving, and the season where we give thanks for all the things we are fortunate enough to have. “In doing so, I was reminded – as I’m sure we all are – that there are many people in our country and around the world who are far less fortunate than those of us lucky enough to be standing in this room today. I was also reminded that just two short weeks ago, a $5 billion cut to the Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program (SNAP) took effect. This cut that will affect 1 in 7 Americans, and will give the families relying on this critical program one more thing to worry about. For many, it will literally take food off the table. “This underscores the importance of events like the one we are holding today. “Across America, there are millions of people still struggling to recover after the recession. There are millions of Americans that are still out of work. And, there are millions of American families that are struggling not just to make ends meet, but to provide for the most basic needs such as putting food on the table. “I believe that we have a moral obligation to do whatever we can, be it a grand gesture or a seemingly insignificant act, to make it easier for those among us struggling to make ends meet. Not just this season, but throughout the year. “And in saying that, there are thousands of organizations like the ones represented here today that have committed themselves to serving their communities. “Making it easier for people to eat may be one of the simplest yet most critical things we can do, and I commend you for organizing this food drive. “The Pantry of Broward County is an organization that I have had the privilege to be involved with for a number of years. They serve as a one-stop-shop for seniors – providing food, health care, and a number of other critical services for vulnerable seniors. Each and every one of these groups plays a vital role in serving those who live day-by-day. “You have all demonstrated a commitment to this type of service. Hoops for Youth for instance, does an exceptional job at supporting at-risk kids, giving them an opportunity to grow in a safe environment, learn leadership and teamwork, and continue their education in a supportive, safe environment. Simply put, it gives kids a chance. “We need to make sure that we give all families a chance, and with the holiday season fast approaching, I can think of no better time to offer a helping hand to those in need. Thank you again for being here today, for your involvement and commitment to service. May you all have a blessed holiday season.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.13.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the recent announcement that the Department of Justice (DOJ), along with a number of state attorneys general, has reached a settlement with American Airlines and US Airways to withdraw its lawsuit preventing a proposed merger between the two airlines: “I am pleased that the DOJ, as well as those states that supported its lawsuit, has decided to allow the proposed merger between American Airlines and US Airways to proceed. This merger represents a tremendous opportunity that will help foster greater market competition, provide employees of the combined airline with better pay and benefits, and ensure that consumers have more choices when they travel. American Airlines and US Airways currently support thousands of jobs in Florida and, on September 27, 2013, I sent a letter along with six of my colleagues from the Florida Congressional delegation to State Attorney General Pam Bondi urging her to withdraw her support from the DOJ’s lawsuit. I welcome this long awaited decision, which will soon result in the addition of a new 21st century carrier that not only offers competitive services globally, but supports economic growth in our communities throughout the nation.” Please find attached a copy of the letter sent by Congressman Hastings, along with Representatives Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), Ted Deutch (FL-21), Frederica Wilson (FL-24), Lois Frankel (FL-22), Joe Garcia (FL-26), and Patrick Murphy (FL-18), to Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.11.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in honor of Veterans Day: “Today, we honor the brave men and women who have served in the United States Armed Forces throughout generations. With great courage and sacrifice, our servicemen and women have kept us safe and acted selflessly to protect America’s interests across the globe. We are all indebted to their service. “In addition, we are uniquely aware that our nation’s commitments to our veterans do not end when they return home from the battlefield. Many have been physically wounded, and suffer from Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) or mental health illnesses such as Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). We also know that a disproportionate number of America’s veterans – about 67,000 of them – are homeless. These figures are alarming and unacceptable, and we must recommit ourselves to doing more to help our men and women in uniform. “I am pleased to hear that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has made significant progress in recent months in reducing the backlog of disability compensation claims, and reduced outstanding claims by 34 percent. We are clearly making progress in addressing this serious problem, and I am deeply appreciative to the employees of the VA as they work to ensure that all of our veterans get the benefits they deserve. “As we commemorate this year’s Veterans Day, let us remember all those who have fought and lost their lives in the name of freedom and democracy. The men and women of our Armed Forces deserve our deepest gratitude every single day for their continued sacrifice, and I will continue to work tirelessly for the rights of all veterans, active-duty members of the military, and their families.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.07.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after the Senate passed the Employment Non-Discrimination Act of 2013 (ENDA) by a vote of 64-32: “In passing ENDA today, the Senate sent a clear message that employer discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity should be outlawed. All across the country, qualified, hardworking Americans continue to be denied job opportunities, harassed, fired, or otherwise discriminated against solely because they are lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender (LGBT). ENDA is a bi-partisan measure that strengthens basic employment protections for all Americans and, in my opinion, is long overdue. “It is now up to the House to ensure that this critical legislation becomes law, however, Speaker John Boehner has indicated that he will not allow ENDA to be brought to the Floor for a vote. This decision is outright unconscionable, and threatens the livelihood of LGBT individuals and their families. Sadly, it appears that House Republican Leadership will once again stand on the wrong side of history and attempt to block ENDA from taking effect. Speaker Boehner should reconsider his position and allow the House to vote on passage of a fully inclusive ENDA as soon as possible.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.02.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement after introducing H.Res. 397, Recognizing the 40th anniversary of the independence of the Bahamas. Joining him as original co-sponsors of the resolution were Representatives Corrine Brown (FL-05), Yvette D. Clarke (NY-09), John Conyers, Jr. (MI-13), Hakeem S. Jeffries (NY-08), John Lewis (GA-05), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), and Frederica S. Wilson (FL-24). (Please find attached a copy of the legislation). “On July 10, 1973, the Bahamas became a free and sovereign country, and throughout 2013 Bahamians are celebrating the 40th anniversary of this tremendous milestone. Our Caribbean neighbor has a proud history and rich culture that dates back centuries, from the Lucayan Indians who first settled the islands to British colonial rule and ultimately independence. “The United States and the Bahamas are united by a shared history, common values, and a commitment to democracy and human rights. I hope that both our nations will continue strengthening their friendship and bilateral partnership, especially in the areas of promoting greater security, economic development, and people-to-people exchanges. In addition, I look forward to working together with lawmakers and civil society organizations in the Bahamas as we continue to expand opportunities for the next generation of leaders, address the effects of climate change, and advance gender equality throughout the Caribbean region. “This year, I join with the people of the Bahamas and the Bahamian community worldwide in commemorating the 40th anniversary of the independence of the Bahamas.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.01.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after a $5 billion cut to the Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program (SNAP) took effect: “Starting today, American families struggling to make ends meet will have one more thing to worry about. The $5 billion cut to SNAP benefits will impact 1 in 7 Americans, including seniors, the disabled, children, and low-wage working Americans. For these families and individuals, the cuts will literally keep food off of the table. “This cut will force some of the hungriest people in our country to forego up to 21 meals every single month. Yet, Republicans remain determined to cut even more from the program. Just two months ago, House Republicans pushed through legislation to cut $39 billion from SNAP, nearly 10 times the amount agreed to in the bi-partisan compromise passed in the Senate. “SNAP benefits are critical for the 47 million people that receive them. As a Member of Congress, I will continue to oppose cuts to SNAP and support legislation that makes it easier for Americans to provide for themselves and their families.” Approximately 18 percent of Florida residents receive SNAP benefits. Nearly 1.7 million households in Florida participate in the program, including 51,000 households in the 20th Congressional district. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.31.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement regarding health coverage through the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA): “I am pleased to join the health care exchange on January 1, 2014, which will provide health insurance to tens of millions of Americans, and improve coverage for millions of others. “I voted in favor of the Affordable Care Act, and will go into the exchange as required by law. “However, after considerable thought and consultation with the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and Office of Personnel Management (OPM), I believe that my Congressional staff both in Florida and Washington should be treated the same as every other Federal employee, who purchases their health care coverage through the Federal Health Benefit Program (FEHBP).” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.30.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement recognizing the end of Domestic Violence Awareness Month: “As a co-sponsor of the original Violence Against Women Act of 1993 (VAWA), I am proud of the progress our country has made in reducing domestic violence over the past two decades. We have taken great strides in banishing domestic violence from our homes, and have dedicated significant resources to better protect survivors, prosecute abusers, and prevent new violence before it occurs. According the Department of Justice (DOJ), our nation has seen a 64 percent decline in domestic violence since 1994. “Despite this overwhelming progress, one in four women will still experience domestic violence in their lifetime. Young adults between the ages of 16-24 still experience domestic violence at the highest rates, and, every day, three women lose their lives as a result of domestic violence. These statistics are both staggering and unacceptable. Clearly, we must do more. That is why I proudly supported the re-authorization of VAWA. “Even though Domestic Violence Awareness Month is observed only once a year, efforts to bring an end to domestic violence must continue each and every single day. I believe that we must do all that we can to aid those who have suffered from domestic violence, and work to prevent new violence from happening.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.29.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the passing of Congressman Ike Skelton, former Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee: “It is with great sadness that I learned of the passing of my friend and former colleague Congressman Ike Skelton. For 34 years, Ike served the House of Representatives with distinction. He was a dyed-in-the-wool public servant, and his dedication to our nation’s security and prosperity rightfully earned him great respect across the aisle. “Ike was known as both a humble and selfless leader, who fought diligently for the men and women of our armed forces and everyday working Americans. He always put his constituents and the American people first, and as the Chairman of the Armed Services Committee, he dedicated himself to ensuring that our men and women in uniform received the support they needed both on and off the battlefield. “With Ike’s passing, we’ve lost a great advocate for the American people. I am deeply honored to have known him and to have called him my friend. My thoughts and prayers are with Patty, his children, family, and friends, and the people of Missouri during this time of sadness and loss.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.24.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the House floor on Wednesday in support of H.R. 3080, the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2013. Please see the full transcript below. "Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Florida for yielding me the customary 30 minutes, and I yield myself such time as I may consume. "Mr. Speaker, I rise today and agree with everything that my good friend and colleague from Florida said--everything that he said--with the exception of the fact that I am opposed to the rule. While I may support the underlying legislation, the rule blocks over 70 amendments, many of which were germane to the bill. This kind of rule is not conducive to an open process. "The bill, though far from perfect, is long overdue. There is a lot of go-nowhere, do-nothing talk about creating jobs here on the Hill, but this bill, like the highway bill and the farm bill, will actually create jobs. "The bill also reinforces a point that I have been making for some time, and that is: repairing our Nation's aging infrastructure, including our water infrastructure, is the best jobs program out there. The resulting economic benefits will ripple from our ports to Main Street America as badly needed jobs across a wide range of industries. For example, every dollar spent on Everglades restoration, like the ones authorized here, is returned fourfold by stimulating related industries like tourism, construction, and retail. "Despite these undeniable benefits, it has been 7 years since the last WRRDA bill. That is 7 years of productivity lost. But if you think 7 years is a long time, try waiting 17 years, as my colleague Mr. Webster pointed out. That is how long Port Everglades has been waiting for a Chief's Report from the Army Corps to deepen its channels in anticipation of the new Panama Canal standards. At long last, the report is due shortly, yet this bill fails to authorize the pending project. While much of the blame for the delay falls outside of this Chamber, Congress can and should do right by the port. "Mr. Speaker, the port has already waited its turn. With the new Panama Canal expansion becoming operational in 2015, any further delay for such a vital piece of our Nation's infrastructure will be too late. "I do understand that tough choices have to be made. The way I see it, the Army Corps' lengthy review process is in part to blame for the backlog of projects. Though this bill contains some partisan measures addressing this issue, the Corps has already begun testing its own way of increasing the speed of review. "One of these successful tests was the pilot program for the Central Everglades Planning Project, yet that project is not included in this bill either, despite the Chief's report for CEPP being anticipated within a few months. This new approach, when coupled with a more frequent WRRDA bill, could help eliminate the massive backlog of projects that has forced Congress to make these tough decisions. "When we look what CEPP actually does, the urgency for authorization is even more obvious. CEPP will help end the discharges of polluted water from Lake Okeechobee that have been devastating Florida communities for years. The water is choked green with algae and killing wildlife, tourism, fishing, and oyster industries, particularly in the Indian River area of our State. "The people of Florida can't wait for another WRRDA bill to roll around. The streamlined successful pilot program is infinitely more preferable than the streamlining of environmental review contained in this bill. "My friends across the aisle seem oddly opposed sometimes to having fresh water and clean air, attacking NEPA and environmental regulations at every opportunity, including otherwise inappropriate vehicles like this bill. But I understand that no one is happy all the time. "I do have grave reservations about some of the policies in the bill and hope that we can work them out through the legislative process. There is no need for Congress to make the waters rougher than they already are. Let's continue to do our work constituents sent us here to do. "I reserve the balance of my time." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.22.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement following on the passing of former Congressman Major Owens of New York: “I was deeply saddened to learn of the passing of my good friend, and former colleague, Congressman Major Owens. Major was a strident voice for reform – a man of compassion, vision, and courage. A devoted educator and advocate for the less fortunate, he worked tirelessly to improve the lives of all who call America home. “Major’s legacy will undoubtedly speak for itself. He served in Congress for 24 years, fighting poverty, improving education, and helping to pass the landmark Americans with Disabilities Act. He was unapologetic in his beliefs, and exemplified the very best that we could ask for in one of our national leaders. “I am deeply honored to have known Major and to have had the privilege to serve with him in the United States Congress. Today, my thoughts and prayers are with Maria, Major’s children and grandchildren, and the people of New York during this most difficult time of sadness." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.19.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the passing of Florida Congressman C.W. Bill Young, former Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriations, Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Defense Appropriations, and the longest serving member of the Republican Party: “It is with a heavy heart and great sadness that I learned of the passing of my friend Bill Young. Bill was an assiduous public servant and a tireless advocate for all Floridians. But above all, he was a man of integrity and a true statesman. The House of Representatives will not be the same without him. “Bill served in Congress for 42 years, and I am deeply honored to have had the opportunity to serve alongside him as a colleague and a friend for the past two decades. He dedicated himself to providing for our nation’s servicemen and servicewomen, and was a powerful voice for America’s best interests at home and abroad. His distinguished career has left its mark on the lives of countless Americans. "I join with the people of Florida in keeping Beverly, Bill’s sons, grandchildren, and family in my thoughts and prayers during this time of sadness and loss." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.18.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the passing of former Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives Tom Foley: “It is with great sadness that I learned of the passing of my friend and colleague, former Speaker of the House Tom Foley. Tom was a dedicated public servant and a principled leader. He will forever be remembered as a man of civility who stood above the fray to move our nation forward. “Tom served the American people for 36 years, as Chairman of the House Committee on Agriculture, Majority Whip, Majority Leader, Speaker of the House, and Ambassador to Japan. He was a man who forged compromises and sought common ground, even in the face of increasing partisanship. This rightfully earned him the reputation of being a fair-minded voice for all Americans. “We can all learn from Tom’s example. I am deeply honored to have known him, and to have had the privilege to serve with him in the United States Congress. My thoughts and prayers are with his wife Heather, his family, and the people of Washington in this time of sadness.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.18.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement marking the 20th Annual National Mammography Day and Breast Cancer Awareness Month: “Today, we mark the 20th Annual National Mammography Day and Breast Cancer Awareness Month to highlight the importance of routine screenings for the early detection of breast cancer. Cancer remains a major public health challenge, and has profoundly impacted the lives of millions of people diagnosed with the disease, their families, and friends. “A woman living in the U.S. has a one-in-eight lifetime risk of being diagnosed with breast cancer, and this year, an estimated 235,000 new cases of invasive breast cancer will be diagnosed. However, as research and treatment continue to improve, more and more people have survived cancer and are living longer, more fulfilling lives. “Routine screening and early diagnosis are key to combating cancer in all its forms. When breast cancer is detected early in a localized area, the survival rate is 98 percent. This is one of the many reasons why I am proud to support the Affordable Care Act, which requires Medicare and almost all private insurance plans to cover annual mammograms with no out-of-pocket costs. “I remain committed to ensuring that cancer research receives appropriate funding and that we continue making progress in reducing cancer mortality. As we mark National Mammography Day and National Breast Cancer Awareness Month, I am proud to support the thousands of researchers and advocacy organizations that continue to raise awareness about cancer prevention and treatment.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.16.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement after the House of Representatives voted to end the government shutdown and raise the debt ceiling through February 7, 2013: “I join with many of my colleagues and millions of Americans in welcoming the end of this pointless government shutdown and increase in our nation’s debt ceiling to avoid a devastating default. “For more than two weeks, House Republicans held our country hostage over the Affordable Care Act – more accurately described as the Affordable Care Law. Today, they finally came to grips with reality and agreed to end the shutdown, with nothing to show except record-low polling numbers and the highest level of U.S. jobless benefits claims in six months. That’s what this shutdown has gotten us. Instead of working to avoid a government shutdown in the first place, they decided to play politics with our nation’s economy. “House Republicans repeatedly said that they wanted ‘fairness for all Americans,’ but their actions spoke louder than their words. It’s not fair to prevent 800,000 furloughed federal employees from working when they have bills coming due. It’s not fair to deny critical health care services to the most vulnerable in our society, including women, infants, and children. And it’s not fair to cheat our nation out of an estimated $20 billion in economic activity, while bringing us to the brink of default on our debt obligations. “The 17-day Republican shutdown may be over, but its effects will be felt for years to come. From the very beginning, it was ill-advised and it was reckless. Our nation’s standing in the world has been diminished, and the American people’s trust in government is at an all-time low. Congress must do better. “This short-term fix will not solve our problems overnight. Over the coming weeks and months, Congress will need to come together to make difficult decisions on how to effectively and fairly reduce our nation’s debt, while upholding our shared responsibilities to each other. Continuing to kick the can down the road with short-term fixes threatens the economic stability of our country and the entire globe. It is long past time for Congress to get back to work and address the many pressing needs of our nation and the American people.” The House of Representatives voted to end the shutdown by a margin of 285 to 144, with 144 Republicans voting against the bipartisan compromise. As part of the deal, furloughed federal workers will receive back pay. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.15.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) introduced the Debt Limit Reform Act to reform the statutory limits on our nation’s federal debt. The legislation provides the President of the United States with explicit authority to raise the debt ceiling without Congressional approval, and removes intra-governmental accounts from the debt ceiling calculation. (Please see the attached legislation) “As Congress faces an ongoing government shutdown that has left hundreds of thousands of American workers without a paycheck, we are getting ever closer to our nation defaulting on its debt obligations. Democrats and Republicans must come together to act – or risk a global economic catastrophe. This is exactly where we were just two years ago, and where we will be again in the near future if we do not take any steps to reform the way in which we calculate and consider our nation’s debt. “We need a new debt limit law that takes the modern world into account. That is why my legislation distinguishes between mere accounting techniques and actual debt when calculating the debt ceiling. No longer will debt owed from one branch of our government to another be considered the same as debt held by foreign governments, banks, pension funds, and other entities. “At a time when partisan gridlock is having a devastating impact on our nation’s economy through a government shutdown and further threatening to destabilize global financial systems, this legislation represents a common sense solution to modernizing the way in which we calculate our nation’s debt and increase the debt ceiling. In this way, we can begin to tackle the real challenges facing this country.” According to the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), of the $16.699 trillion in outstanding debt subject to limit, roughly $11.9 trillion is held by the public and about $4.8 trillion is held by government accounts. These include the Old-Age and Survivors Insurance (OASI) and the Disability Insurance (DI) Trust Funds that constitute the Social Security Trust Funds, Medicare Parts A and B, the Civil Service and Military Retirement Trust Funds, Unemployment Insurance, the Highway Trust Fund, Community Living Assistance Services and Supports (CLASS) Trust Fund, and Airport and Airway Trust Fund. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.14.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement strongly urging House Republicans to allow a clean vote to raise the debt ceiling and avoid default: “With just days left before default, it is time for Republicans to get serious and stop playing games with the livelihoods of American families. It’s bad enough that Speaker Boehner and Majority Leader Cantor won’t allow a vote to re-open the federal government, but now Republicans are holding the full faith and credit of the United States hostage with yet another artificial crisis. “I am increasingly alarmed that some members of the Republican party, despite the overwhelming opinion of experts and economists, incredulously believe that failing to raise the debt ceiling will not be devastating for the American and global economies. Raising the debt ceiling adds nothing to the national debt, and simply allows the U.S. Treasury to pay the bills for spending that Congress has already voted for and approved. Both Democrats and Republicans know this, which is why the debt ceiling has been raised 78 times since 1960. “Defaulting on our obligations would have very severe ramifications. Every American will pay a price if House Republicans continue to play games and force a federal default. A default would mean that 4 million seniors and 260,000 veterans in Florida would not receive their Social Security or Veterans benefits. Florida homeowners would see their mortgages increase, and workers’ 401(k) and IRA accounts significantly shrink. We must not allow this to happen, and I urge my colleagues in Congress to stop undercutting the American people with partisan politics.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.11.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), Co-Chairman of the Congressional Everglades Caucus, made the following statement in support of the fishing guides in South Florida, whose livelihoods depend on tourism in Florida’s Everglades National Park: “As a result of the government shutdown, middle class and working poor Americans all across this country are suffering, including fishing guides whose livelihood depends on tourism in Florida’s Everglades National Park. “On October 9, 2013, nine days into the government shutdown, more than 100 boats gathered outside the shuttered Everglades National Park to rally support to re-opening park waters. I wholeheartedly support the efforts of these hardworking fishing guides. “One guide stated that he has lost $10,000 in revenue since the waters were closed. There are around 350 such licensed guides in the area alone, not to mention the hundreds of employees who work in and around the park. It is time that Speaker Boehner and his Republican colleagues stop this charade, end the government shutdown, and let people get back to work. “This shutdown exemplifies government at its worst. American families should not fall victim to Washington’s dysfunction. Government is supposed to help its citizens, not make it harder for them to put food on the table. “The bottom line is that Congress must re-open the government. South Florida’s fishing guides are ready to work. It is absolutely outrageous that politics is standing in their way.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.11.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in observation of the 25th Annual National Coming Out Day: “Since the first National Coming Out Day 25 years ago, the struggle for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) equality continues to see remarkable progress. From the world of entertainment and professional sports to our nation’s military and politics, we have seen more and more courageous individuals coming out within recent years. This is an encouraging sign that our nation is becoming a more tolerant and inclusive place. “An estimated nine million Americans identify as LGBT, but many are forced to hide who they are out of fear of discrimination. This is especially true in too many classrooms and work places across the country. That is why I support passage of employment non-discrimination legislation that protects LGBT workers from being fired or discriminated against based solely on their sexual orientation, gender identity, or gender expression, as well as efforts to address bullying and violence in our nation’s schools before they lead to tragedy. “Coming out helps to foster a greater understanding of the LGBT community, and puts a human face on the movement for equal rights. This National Coming Out Day, I recognize all those who have experienced the struggle of living in the closet, and will continue working to ensure that our laws treat all people with the dignity and respect that they deserve.” National Coming Out Day was established on October 11, 1988 in commemoration of the one-year anniversary of the National March on Washington for Lesbian and Gay Rights. This year’s theme is ‘Coming Out Still Matters,’ which reminds us of the power of coming out as LGBT or an ally to advance the cause of equal rights for all. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.09.2013	(Washington, D.C.) Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) spoke on the House floor on Tuesday night in opposition to H.R. 3273, establishing a bicameral working group on deficit reduction and economic growth. The legislation would create a new so-called working group, similar to the 2011 "super committee" that resulted in the disastrous sequester. Please see the full transcript below. “I thank the gentleman, my good friend from Texas, who yielded the time. “I rise today obviously in strong opposition to this measure. I would say to my friend, I just heard him just a moment ago, Mr. Speaker, say that the people from Texas sent him here to do things. Well, the people from Florida sent me here to do things just like him. There are 435 Members in this institution, in addition to delegates from around our territories, and each one of them has an unequivocal and clear understanding about how to go about budgeting in this particular matter. “Forming a working group is forming another group up above that group. I don't need that, and I don't believe he needs that. I don't need it. Evidently, we haven't done very well when we've had it. From the newspapers today, I gathered that we had a Simpson-Bowles Commission, which people forget was the legacy of the 2010 debt ceiling increase. We had the Domenici-Rivlin commission. We had the Cantor-Biden talks. We had the Obama-Boehner debt ceiling negotiation, the Gang of Six talks, the “super committee,” and then the Obama-Boehner fiscal cliff talks. Not one of them worked, and this mess isn't going to work either. “It's sort of like, Mr. Speaker, moving the hostages, since they're taking them one by one here with this rifle-shot approach to legislating, when, in fact, all they have to do is put a clean CR on the floor and we could pass it, and they know that. But basically what they're doing is saying, Okay, we're going to take some hostages over here; then we're going to put them in another room with some more people so that they can talk to them. “I said in the Rules Committee, and I repeat: this is a gimmick wrapped in a con inside a scam, and nothing tells me anything different about my friends across the aisle who've offered gimmick after gimmick instead of doing what they know is right. “We can open the government, and that's easy to do. We can put Americans back to work, and that's easy to do. We can keep our country from defaulting on its obligations. This measure will do none of those things, not one of them. “In all that talk about the President, the President made it very clear today that he's willing to negotiate. Evidently--and I picked up on this--my friends on the other side must have poll-tested conversation. Well, conversation allows, among other things, that you have an exploratory understanding with people in an informal setting. “What have we been talking about around here for 2 years? We've been talking about this mess. This didn't just come up last night or the day before yesterday. Democrats have already offered seven times to take up the Senate-passed continuing resolution. The House GOP has blocked a vote on the measure each and every time. For 6 months, we've been asking these people to conference. “To the House Republican leadership I say, Mr. Speaker, let us vote on a clean CR. Let us raise the debt ceiling. Why prolong this shutdown when you know that the votes are here in the House of Representatives? “My friends across the aisle know they've made a mistake. The goalposts have not only moved; they have vanished completely from the field. First, they want to defund ObamaCare. Then they only want to delay ObamaCare. Then when that didn't work, they said, well, we don't want to shut the government down, so let's open it up piece by piece. Evidently, that isn't working either, so they're now down here, moaning and groaning about the fact that the Senate isn't going to take up something that's foolish because they've made it clear that they want this to be a measure that's not a part of any negotiations or conversation; and the President made it clear that he will converse with anybody about anything but not with a gun at his head and not with the kind of undertaking that you are going forward here. “So now it's a working group, another super committee. How did that work out for you the last time, I ask my friends, if you would, Mr. Speaker? “So tell me, where does it all end? In all seriousness, what do my friends across the aisle hope to achieve? “Speaker Boehner has said: ``My goal here is to have a serious conversation''--he said it 27 times ``conversation'' on Sunday; I was looking at him when he said it--``about those things that are driving the deficit and driving the debt up, and the President's refusal to sit down and have a conversation about this is putting our Nation at risk of default.'' “At 11:38 today, the President's office issued a statement wherein they had a conversation today with John Boehner, in essence, telling him virtually that we can do this with a clean CR. "What have we been talking about? Why are we even here? What are we talking about now? Are we having a conversation, or are we just talking past each other here in the House of Representatives? Republicans have shut down the Federal Government and taken us to the brink of a global economic catastrophe because, evidently, they want to have a conversation that we are already in the middle of. “Guess what? The Senate CR is at the levels you wanted--$986 billion. That's what they voted on. Sequestration is the law, as my friend from Georgia is fond of saying, ``the law of the land.'' You've already gotten what you wanted. Let's just vote on a clean CR. Let us raise the debt ceiling. This shutdown and looming debt ceiling breach are failures of the majority's leadership to stand up against the extremists within their own party, elected on a platform of obstructionism that borders on insurrection. “Leaders, you say on the other side, must be strong. Leaders must be courageous. This has become not a democracy that was intended by Jefferson and Madison and Adams and all of those that were our Founders, the Franklins and the Washingtons. They founded a democracy in spite of their divisions. They did not want to have “mobocracy.” That's what you've allowed to stand up in your part of this institution, a mob. “Mr. Speaker, let us end these games with a strong bipartisan message. We can show the rest of the world that the United States is ready to end its political brinksmanship. “When I was a child and I would speak out of turn, my dad and my grandmother would say: Sit down and shut up. We don't need a shutdown. We don't need people being shut out. What we need to do is shut up and let the American people cause us to listen to them and go about the business of bringing a clean CR down here. That's what I'm hearing from the American people, both Republican and Democrat, liberal and conservative, that they want us to sit down and shut up and open up this government with a clean CR.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.09.2013	(Washington, D.C.) Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following remarks at a meeting of the House Committee on Rules on Monday, October 07, 2013, regarding H.R. 3273, which creates a bicameral working group on deficit reduction. The legislation creates a new so-called working group, similar to the 2011 "super committee" that resulted in the disastrous sequester. Please see below the clip of Hastings’ statement: Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.09.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) congratulated Helping Abused Neglected Disadvantaged Youth, Inc. (HANDY) for being selected as a 2013 Angel in Adoption winner by the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI). Hastings nominated HANDY for the award, which is given to individuals, couples, or organizations that have made extraordinary contributions on behalf of children in need of homes. “I am pleased to congratulate HANDY on winning the 2013 Angels in Adoption Award. For nearly three decades, HANDY has had a tremendous impact on the lives of tens of thousands of children in South Florida, empowering them to become engaged, productive, and self-sufficient adults,” said Hastings. Every year, HANDY serves more than 1,200 at-risk children who have been abused, neglected and/or abandoned, or are in danger of aging out of the Foster/Relative Care System, providing support and guidance to help them make the transition into young adulthood. The organization has been active in South Florida since 1985, and has met the needs of more than 50,000 Broward County children and youth. “I am proud to honor HANDY’s commitment to disadvantaged youth in South Florida. As a testament to their dedication to improving the lives of young people, 95 percent of youth enrolled at HANDY graduate from high school, and every one of them enroll in college or technical school. I look forward to continuing my partnership with HANDY in the future, and congratulate them again on winning the 2013 Angels in Adoption Award,” concluded Hastings. Elizabeth Bryant, Director of Development for HANDY, as well as other executive leaders of the organization traveled to Washington, D.C. from October 7-9, 2013. They participated in training events, and met with Members of Congress to bring greater attention to the fostering and adoption processes. For more information on Angels in Adoption, please visit: www.angelsinadoption.org. From left to right: Evan Goldman, Barbara Burnette, Rep. Alcee L. Hastings, Chad Moss, Marsha Levy, and Kirk Brown Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.04.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement following the passage of legislation to extend the Iraqi Special Immigrant Visa (SIV) program through December 2013: “Despite the partisan gridlock and uncertainty of the ongoing government shutdown, I am pleased that Congress voted to extend the Iraqi Special Immigrant Visa (SIV) program through December 2013. Iraqis who have worked with American forces as translators and guides put themselves and their families at great risk, and many continue to fear for their lives as a result. The SIV program provides refuge for those who face serious threats from having provided such valuable services to our government, and we must ensure that we stand by them. “Many of our Iraqi allies have waited more than three years to receive their SIVs and, to date, only 6,000 of the 25,000 allocated visas have been issued. This three month extension gives the State Department the time it needs to finish processing the thousands of pending applications to the SIV program, many of which have been pending for more than two years. This backlog must be addressed quickly, and our endangered allies in Iraq given the chance to seek safety in the United States.” The SIV program expired on October 1, 2013. The extension was passed in both the House of Representatives and Senate. The legislation extends the program through December 2013 and creates an additional 2,000 visas. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.04.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), along with Representatives James P. Moran (D-VA), Janice D. Schakowsky (D-IL), Michael M. Honda (D-CA), Judy Chu (D-CA), Gerald E. Connolly (D-VA), Alan S. Lowenthal (D-CA), and Mark Pocan (D-WI), sent the following letter to Serbian Prime Minister Ivica Dacic regarding the Government of Serbia’s recent ban on the Pride Parade in Belgrade, as well as concerns for the basic freedoms and human rights of its lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) citizens. (Please find a copy of the letter attached and below). October 04, 2013 Mr. Ivica Dacic Prime Minister Government of the Republic of Serbia 11 Nemanjina Street, 11000 Belgrade Republic of Serbia Dear Mr. Prime Minister: We write to express our concerns for the basic freedoms of assembly, speech, and expression for all Serbian citizens. Given the Government of Serbia’s recent ban on the Pride Parade in Belgrade for the third consecutive time, we urge you to reverse this decision and uphold democratic principles and human rights. In particular, we ask that you implement policies that foster greater tolerance and acceptance for all people, while helping to prevent discrimination and violence. It is deeply troubling that there is existing legislation concerning non-discrimination in Serbia, but that it is not enforced. We understand that the Pride Parade was registered with the authorities in October 2012. That means that the government had more than a year to thoroughly prepare for the Parade. The fact that Serbia has missed yet another opportunity to demonstrate its commitment to respecting human rights causes us great concern. This ban violates the fundamental freedoms that constitute the foundations of a democratic society. As Members of the U.S. Congress, we are troubled by the Government’s decision to ban the Parade, as it encourages intolerance and discrimination against lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) citizens and their families. Furthermore, the decision to ban the Parade violates the fundamental freedoms of assembly, speech, and expression, which are vitally important in creating a strong and vibrant society. We believe that the ban is contrary to the international human rights standards to which the Republic of Serbia has committed itself by joining the Council of Europe and ratifying the United Nations’ Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. Protecting the equal human rights of every citizen is the main responsibility of every democratic government. Moreover, violence, and the threats of violence, by extremists groups does not have a place in democratic discourse. Although the decision to ban the Pride Parade was made based on security reasons, we are very disappointed to see that there has been no legal action taken against those individuals who encourage violence, and are known to have participated in violent acts, against the LGBT community in Serbia. It is truly a shame that the threats from extremists groups have determined the outcome of this event. The Government of Serbia must not allow its citizens to lose faith in its ability to stand strong against violent extremism. Therefore, we respectfully call on the Serbian authorities at all levels to take greater steps to prevent discrimination, and protect the basic freedoms of assembly, speech, and expression. The 2014 Pride Parade in Belgrade has already been registered. This represents a tremendous opportunity for the Government of Serbia to reaffirm its commitment to human rights, democratic values, and Euro-Atlantic integration. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress James Moran Member of Congress Janice Schakowsky Member of Congress Michael Honda Member of Congress Judy Chu Member of Congress Gerald E. Connolly Member of Congress Alan Lowenthal Member of Congress Mark Pocan Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.02.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), Co-Founder and Co-Chairman of the Congressional Caucus on Homelessness, released the following statement after co-hosting a briefing with Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, focused on the issue of re-entry: “I am pleased to join with members of the Congressional Caucus on Homelessness to discuss the issue re-entry. Right now, hundreds of thousands of men, women, and children are living their lives without a home. The issue of homelessness is not confined to one particular group of people, and homeless Americans are of all races, ethnicities, and ages. “Since 2005, the number of homeless Americans has dropped by nearly 17 percent. As many as 125,000 fewer Americans were homeless last year, than in 2005, despite the increases in the homeless population, due to the mortgage crisis and the recession. “We also know that a disproportionate number of America’s veterans are among the homeless population. It is believed that 67,000 veterans are currently homeless, many of whom are living with post-traumatic stress disorder and substance abuse issues. Though this number has been reduced significantly in recent years, the number of homeless veterans remains alarmingly high. Furthermore, those who have been released from incarceration are highly susceptible to homelessness. An upwards of 650,000 people are released from state and federal prisons each year, and roughly 10 percent of these individuals have no place to go upon being released. “It is imperative that as a nation, we look for ways to provide for vocational training and short-term shelter, which will have a significant long-term impact on those trying to re-enter society. Allowing men, women, and children to live on the streets is not a standard America should be willing to accept, and we must work together to advocate for those who so often cannot advocate for themselves.” Guest panelists included: Diana Stanley, CEO of the Lord’s Place, a non-profit organization located in Hastings’ Congressional district, which is dedicated to breaking the cycle of homelessness in Palm Beach County; Steve Berg, Vice President for Programs and Policy at the National Alliance to End Homelessness; Katie Scott, Director of Pro Bono projects at the Homeless Persons Representation Project in Baltimore, Maryland; as well as Ms. T. Sanders, who gave her personal perspective on what it is like to struggle with homelessness. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.29.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) issued the following statement after Speaker Boehner and House Republicans voted to attach a one-year delay to the Affordable Care Act to the Continuing Appropriations Resolution, clearing the way for the first government shutdown since 1996: “House Republicans continue to act irresponsibly, putting partisan political games above the needs of the American people. It is absolutely outrageous that Speaker Boehner refused allow a vote on a clean CR, instead opting to force a government shutdown. “Republicans have gotten exactly what they wanted. Starting Tuesday, hundreds of thousands of federal employees will be indefinitely furloughed. The economic impact from this reckless decision will be far reaching and severe. “They must work with Democrats, not bow to the demands of fringe members of the Tea Party, to end this partisan gridlock. Instead of threatening our economic recovery and the progress we have made over recent years, we should be working together to advocate for the best interests of the American People.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.27.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), along with Representatives Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), Ted Deutch (FL-21), Frederica Wilson (FL-24), Lois Frankel (FL-22), Joe Garcia (FL-26), and Patrick Murphy (FL-18), sent the following letter to Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi urging her to withdraw her support from the Department of Justice’s (DOJ) lawsuit to block the merger of American Airlines and US Airways. (Please find a copy of the letter attached and below). September 27, 2013 The Honorable Pam Bondi Attorney General State of Florida The Capitol PL-01 Tallahassee, FL 32399-1050 Dear Attorney General Bondi: On behalf of our respective communities, airline employees, and the flying public, we write to express our deep disappointment about your decision to support the Department of Justice’s (DOJ) recent federal lawsuit against the merger of American Airlines and US Airways. While we share your concern for ensuring robust market competition and protecting consumers, preventing this merger from proceeding will not only have the opposite effect, but negatively impact tens of thousands of American jobs. A successful merger between American Airlines and US Airways represents a responsible path forward in the highly competitive airline industry, giving the combined company the resources it needs to compete with the country’s two largest carriers, United and Delta, as well as internationally. Therefore, we urge you to withdraw your support from the DOJ’s lawsuit, and allow the merger to resume. As you well know, the DOJ has approved three major airline mergers within recent years: Delta and Northwest in 2008, United and Continental in 2010, and Southwest and Air Tran in 2011. The DOJ’s lawsuit against the merger of American Airlines and US Airways is inconsistent with its previous actions and industry reality, as well as risks putting both companies at a severe competitive disadvantage in an increasingly duopolistic market. Left to operate separately, American Airlines and US Airways will not have the market share, size, and scale to best compete with larger carriers or offer consumers more competitive fares. Instead of having three major global competitors to choose from, consumers will be faced with just two that have less incentive to price their services more competitively. On the other hand, American Airlines and US Airways have far fewer route overlaps than either of the previously approved mergers, and the combined company will be comparable in fleet size to United and Delta. Since the previous mergers were approved, the airline industry has added relatively little capacity while passenger air travel has risen. Once the largest of “legacy” carriers, American Airlines has made a commendable effort to remain independent despite increased economic pressure. Since filing for bankruptcy protection in November 2011, it has taken considerable steps to reduce labor costs and renegotiate aircraft and other leases, while continuing to make the investments necessary to stay competitive and transform itself into a flagship carrier with a 21st century fleet. We believe that American Airlines has demonstrated its intention to remain an industry leader, and that the proposed merger with US Airways will allow it to exit bankruptcy swiftly and more effectively compete. Furthermore, the merger between American Airlines and US Airways enjoys overwhelming support from their unions, as well as investors, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC), and other stakeholders. For years, the hardworking employees of both airlines have made great sacrifices to help strengthen their companies amid changing conditions that have caused many carriers to go out of business, communities to lose service, and workers to lose jobs. This merger will mean increased job security and new opportunities for the workers of American Airlines and US Airways, as well as those communities served by the combined airline. The DOJ’s lawsuit to prevent the merger proposal before bankruptcy court approval has already caused harm to US Airways pilots who have been working for a below-scale wage for a decade, and stood to gain $1.6 billion in wages and benefits from a new contract over six years. Finally, we remain concerned by the negative economic impact that an unsuccessful merger will have on our communities, the State of Florida, and our nation as a whole. Our Congressional districts are home to several major airports, including Miami International Airport (MIA), Hollywood-Fort Lauderdale International Airport (FLL), Palm Beach International Airport (PBI), Orlando International Airport (MCO), Tampa International Airport (TPA), and Jacksonville International Airport (JAX), that connect Florida to other hubs and destinations in the United States. These airports are vitally important to tapping Florida’s economic potential by supporting the flow of tourism and commerce with Latin America and the Caribbean. In addition, American Airlines and US Airways currently support thousands of jobs in Florida. Given that one airline job translates into approximately 17 additional jobs, including in related sectors such as airports, aircraft manufacturing, and suppliers, this merger stands to benefit millions more. American Airlines and US Airways have proposed a merger agreement that will allow them to provide competitive services to air travelers, better pay and benefits for their employees, and support economic growth in Florida. Rather than help foster greater market competition, the DOJ’s lawsuit will effectively pick winners and losers at the cost of airline workers and consumers. This merger is a tremendous opportunity that will impact the future of our airline industry for years to come. Withdrawing your support from the DOJ’s lawsuit will help ensure that Floridians and all Americans have more choices when they travel. We thank you for your attention to this important matter, and look forward to your response. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Debbie Wasserman Schultz Member of Congress Ted Deutch Member of Congress Frederica Wilson Member of Congress Lois Frankel Member of Congress Patrick E. Murphy Member of Congress Joe Garcia Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.27.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement applauding the Black Farmers Discrimination Litigation settlement, commonly known as Pigford II, and the disbursement of reparations to African American farmers: “For nearly 15 years, thousands of African American farmers were denied loans from the U.S. Department of Agriculture because of their race. This discrimination had severe consequences, and many black farmers unfairly lost their farms and their livelihoods. I was pleased with the settlement of the Pigford II case, and as reimbursements begin this week, am glad to see this unfortunate chapter in our history come to a close.” “This effort was championed by the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), which fought for farmers from all across the country for many years. The Pigford II settlement will compensate more than 18,000 black farmers nationwide, including 173 in the State of Florida who will receive a total of $8.65 million in disbursements. Nine farmers from Florida’s 20th Congressional district will be awarded $450,000. Additionally, payments will be made to thousands of Native Americans for the mismanagement of lands by the Interior Department. I am pleased that the delay in rectifying these injustices has finally ended.” The Pigford II settlement follows the first round of payments under Pigford I, which awarded compensation to 13,000 black farmers who faced discrimination between 1983 and 1997. The Claims Resolution Act of 2010 provided an additional $1.25 billion in compensation to black farmers, leading to the Pigford II litigation, as well as $3.4 billion to address the issue of royalties owed to Native Americans by the Department of the Interior. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.25.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement after a report was released by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), announcing that the Health Insurance Marketplace in Florida will give consumers more health care options and lower premium costs: “Today, HHS announced that the Health Insurance Marketplace created under the Affordable Care Act (ACA) is lowering prices as promised. This is welcome news for Florida consumers, who will have more choices at lower costs for health insurance. “With the implementation of the ACA, more than five million seniors have saved $3.7 billion on prescription drugs. Nearly seven million young adults have obtained health insurance through their parents’ plan. Furthermore, 17 million children with pre-existing conditions can no longer be denied coverage. Now, premiums across the country will be around 16 percent lower than originally expected, and six in ten uninsured individuals will be covered for less than $100 per month. Despite continued efforts by Republicans to distort the truth and deceive the American public about health care reform, this report only goes to show that the ACA is working.” According to HHS, health insurance plans will be categorized as bronze, silver, or gold. For example, a 27-year old living in Fort Lauderdale with an income of $25,000 per year, will be able to purchase health care for as little as $74 per month, for the lowest cost bronze plan. A family of four, with an annual income of $50,000 per year, can purchase the lowest bronze plan at $24 per month. Additionally, Fort Lauderdale consumers will be able to choose from among 132 qualified health plans. In West Palm Beach, Boca Raton and Delray Beach, a 27-year old making $25,000 per year will pay $72 per month, for the lowest cost bronze plan. A family of four in the same area with an income of $50,000 per year, could receive care for as little as $18 per month. On October 1, 2013, the six-month open enrollment period begins, running through March 2014. Americans enrolling in health care through the Marketplace Exchange will receive coverage beginning on January 1, 2014. Florida consumers will be able to choose from an average of 102 health plans in the Marketplace. For more information, please visit: www.healthcare.gov. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.22.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following remarks after receiving the Diversity Champion Award from the Urban League of Broward County. The award recognizes individuals who demonstrate efficacy in creating, increasing, and incorporating diversity strategies into normal business practices. “I am proud to accept the Diversity Champion Award from the Urban League of Broward County. It has always been my belief that progress and change can be achieved through mutual respect, and that the best way to be a champion of diversity – for minorities, women, veterans, children, immigrants, and the elderly – is to be a champion for all. “Our nation’s diversity makes us stronger, and we should always strive to make it a more inclusive place. In recent years, we have achieved great victories on behalf of all Americans: affirming equal rights regardless of gender, making progress in assuring equal pay for equal work, and realizing affordable health care for all. Just last month, we marked the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington, a day when hundreds of thousands of men and women from all walks of life came together to demand equal opportunities. It is truly remarkable how far we have come, and I know we will continue to break new boundaries. “I would like to extend my appreciation and heartfelt gratitude to the Urban League of Broward County for bestowing this honor upon me. I am deeply grateful, and look forward to continuing my partnership with the Urban League to foster greater diversity all across our nation.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.21.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement celebrating the 20th anniversary of the creation of the AmeriCorps program: “Since its creation 20 years ago, AmeriCorps has had a powerful impact on communities in need across America. More than 820,000 men and women have served as AmeriCorps volunteers - donating more than one billion hours of their time to improving schools, fighting poverty, preserving the environment, and improving the lives of ordinary Americans. “Every year, tens of thousands of new volunteers take the AmeriCorps pledge to work to make the American people safer, smarter, and healthier. I am proud to have co-sponsored the National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993 that created the AmeriCorps program, and will continue to advocate for legislation that serves the American people. “We all have a role to play in changing our nation and our world for the better. I am deeply inspired by and greatly appreciative to the number of people old and young who have participated in AmeriCorps projects over the past two decades. I am proud to mark the 20th anniversary of the AmeriCorps program and look forward to the program’s continued success.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.19.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement announcing the opening of a new office in Palm Beach County. The office is located in the Municipal Center for the Town of Mangonia Park at 1755 East Tiffany Drive. “I am pleased to announce the opening of my new office in Palm Beach County. My biggest priority in Congress is addressing the needs of my constituents. This office will serve as a convenient location for my constituents in Palm Beach County who are in need of information or assistance on a wide range of issues. “I know that cutting through the red tape of government agencies and programs can often be difficult. My constituents should know that no matter what difficulties they are having while navigating the federal bureaucracy, my office and staff are available to assist them wherever possible. I am proud to have represented South Florida over the past twenty years, and will continue to advocate strongly for our community in the House of Representatives.” Hastings has three offices that serve as resources for constituents of Florida’s 20th district, including his Capitol Hill office in Washington D.C. and his district offices in Broward and Palm Beach Counties. Washington D.C. Office 2353 Rayburn Office Building Washington D.C. 20515 Tel: (202) 225-1313 Fax: (202) 225-1171 Broward County Office 2701 W. Oakland Park Boulevard Suite 200 Fort Lauderdale, FL 33311 Tel: (954) 733-2800 Fax: (954) 735-9444 Palm Beach County Office Town of Mangonia Park Municipal Center 1755 East Tiffany Drive Mangonia Park, FL 33407 Tel: (561) 676-7911 Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.19.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives voted 217-210 to cut roughly $40 billion from the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), also known as food stamps: “Today, I voted against H.R. 3102, the detrimental Nutrition Reform and Work Opportunity Act of 2013. This legislation can more accurately be described as the Increasing Hunger in America Act. “This ill-advised legislation cuts roughly $40 billion from the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, or ‘SNAP’ for short. It is downright shortsighted, mean-spirited, and unacceptable. In Florida, nearly 1.7 million households participate in SNAP. In my Congressional district alone, 51,000 households receive SNAP Benefits. For these Americans – and the 50 million more struggling to put food on the table – this plan is a poison-pill that takes food off the tables and out of the mouths of the most vulnerable individuals. “Ninety-two percent of people on SNAP are children, elderly, disabled, or already working. Cutting SNAP benefits for vulnerable and struggling Americans in the name of fiscal responsibility is just plain wrong. There are most certainly other ways to cut our national deficit that do not result in 50 million empty stomachs.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.18.2013	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement at a briefing hosted by the Eating Disorders Coalition, where he received their 2013 Excellence in Policy Award: “This briefing is an important conversation about the critical issues of health, eating disorders, and the stigmas associated with obesity. Children and adults are constantly barraged with a societal need for an excessively thin body image, which promotes disordered thinking and behaviors such as binge eating, inappropriate dieting, and excessive physical activity. “Eating disorders are not met with the same cultural attitudes as other health issues, and any successful obesity prevention effort must focus on a person’s health and not just his or her weight. I am truly honored to have received the Excellence in Policy Award from the Eating Disorders Coalition, and will continue to work to support efforts that effectively combat binge-eating disorders.” The briefing focused on how successful obesity prevention efforts must include a comprehensive approach to health, with an emphasis on the psychological effects of our nation’s culture of weight-based stigma. Guest panelists at the briefing included: Rebecca Puhl, PhD, Deputy Director of the Rudd Center for Food Policy & Obesity at Yale University, B. Timothy Walsh, M.D, Ruane Professor of Pediatric Psychopharmacology, Department of Psychiatry at the College of Physicians & Surgeons at Columbia University, Chevese Turner, CEO & Founder of the Binge Eating Disorder Association, and April Winslow, MS, RD, a Registered Dietitian Nutritionist and Founder of Choose to Change Nutrition Services. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.16.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the tragic Navy Yard shooting that took place in Washington, D.C.: “My thoughts and prayers go out to the fallen victims, their families, and to those who were injured in today’s fatal shooting. This was a cruel and heinous attack, which I condemn in the strongest possible terms. “Unfortunately, we live in an era where we must always be vigilant of those who wish to cause harm to others. There are tragedies that we cannot explain, and some that we cannot prevent. “The first responders who quickly arrived on scene to provide care to the injured and prevent further loss of life deserve our gratitude, as do all of the courageous men and women who serve in our armed forces. As details of today’s cowardly attack continue to surface, the victims and families of all who were impacted by this senseless violence have my unwavering support.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.12.2013	Today, Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Tom Rooney (R-FL) introduced a bipartisan resolution recognizing the importance of nonprofit organizations, and designating May 16, 2014 as ‘National Nonprofit Day.’ (Please find a copy of the resolution attached and below). “Nonprofit organizations advocate for solutions to some of the great challenges facing our nation and the world,” said Hastings. “Nonprofits contribute to advancements in science, research, and health care. They work to improve education, support civil and human rights, and to protect environmental resources and wildlife. The men and women who advocate tirelessly for the causes they believe in deserve to be recognized for their valuable contributions to society.” “Our nation’s nonprofits provide critical services in communities across the country, while employing millions of Americans. Establishing a National Nonprofit Day will help recognize the great work that our nonprofits are already doing and encourage more Americans to give back to their communities,” said Rooney, who served as CEO for the nonprofit Children’s Place at Home Safe, a home for abused and neglected children. The growth rate of the nonprofit sector has surpassed the rate of both the business and government sector. In 2010, nonprofits added nearly $780 billion to the national GDP and employed 1 in 10 working Americans. There are approximately 2.3 million nonprofits operating in the United States today. Joining Hastings and Rooney as original co-sponsors of the legislation were: Representatives Madeleine Z. Bordallo (D-MN), Vern Buchanan (R-FL), Matthew Cartwright (D-PA), Joaquin Castro (D-TX), John Conyers (D-MI), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Mike Honda (D-CA), Sheila Jackson-Lee (D-TX), Eleanor Holmes-Norton (D-DC), Steven Horsford (D-NV), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Betty McCollum (D-MN), James P. McGovern (D-MA), Gary C. Peters (D-MI), and Frederica S. Wilson (D-FL). RESOLUTION Recognizing the importance of nonprofit organizations and expressing support for designation of May 16, 2014 as “National Nonprofit Day.” Whereas an estimated 2,300,000 nonprofit organizations operate in the United States; Whereas the Nonprofit sector continues to grow in size and scope; Whereas Nonprofits serve a vital role in facilitating charitable giving and social action; Whereas the combined donations and volunteer hours of individuals to nonprofit organizations are worth billions of dollars; Whereas May 16, 2014 would be an appropriate date to designate as “National NonProfit Day”: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives— 1) Recognizes the importance of Nonprofits to the communities they serve, the issues they support, and the economy of the United States; 2) Supports the designation of National Nonprofit Day. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.11.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after President Obama addressed the nation on Tuesday night regarding the situation in Syria: “As our nation weighs military action to prevent the repeated use of chemical weapons by the Assad regime against its own people, I am cautiously hopeful that the latest diplomatic developments announced yesterday will result in a Syria free of chemical weapons. “However, at this moment, all options remain on the table and Congress must have the opportunity to debate the matter in an open and transparent process. President Obama made the correct decision to take time to gather the facts about the current situation in Syria and to allow for a possible diplomatic solution to the crisis. No matter what course we take, the international community has the moral responsibility to respond to the use of chemical weapons. “I am deeply appreciative to my constituents who have taken the time to contact my office to make their opinions known. As we continue to get new information and learn more about the proposed plans for action, I will weigh the facts and vote in the manner that I believe best represents and serves the people of South Florida and the United States, while upholding our duty to protect human rights.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.11.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the passing of former Florida Congressman Clay Shaw: “Words cannot express how deeply sorry I was to hear of the passing of my dear friend, Congressman Clay Shaw. He was an exemplary public servant and a man of vision. “I was so deeply honored to have known Clay for 46 years, and to have had the privilege to serve with him in the United States Congress. “For more than three decades, Clay was a tireless advocate and voice for the people of South Florida. I was particularly proud to serve as Co-Chairman of the Florida delegation with him. We worked together to address some of the most pressing needs facing the State of Florida, from I-95 to State Road 7 to the Everglades. “Clay was known for his tenacity in tackling big issues. As Chairman of the House Subcommittees on Trade, Social Security, and Human Resources, he dedicated himself to bettering the lives of all Americans and fought to improve our nation’s Social Security program. I feel truly blessed to have known him, and to have worked with him in so many ways to make our country stronger. “Today, my thoughts and prayers are with Emilie, Clay’s family, as well as the people of South Florida in this time of sadness and loss.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.11.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in recognition of the 12th anniversary of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001: “As we pay tribute to the victims of the World Trade Center, the Pentagon, and United 93 in Shanksville, Pennsylvania, my thoughts and prayers remain with all whose lives were lost or forever changed by these heinous attacks 12 years ago. “The events that transpired on 9/11 will forever be remembered as one of the darkest moments in American history. Yet, the courage and strength that was demonstrated by first responders, police officers, firefighters and civilians in the aftermath of these attacks continues to shine as an example of our nation’s resilience in the wake of tragedy. Today, I would like to recognize the men and women of our nation's military, law enforcement, and intelligence community, who have worked tirelessly to bring Osama bin Laden and members of al-Qaeda to justice, and who have kept us safe from new terrorist attacks. “I believe that today is a day for reflection and prayer, but it is also a day for looking towards the future with hope. On this somber anniversary, we pay tribute to the victims and their families by recommitting ourselves to eliminating hate, extremism, and violence across the globe.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.04.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement marking Rosh Hashanah, the Jewish New Year, which begins at sundown tonight. Rosh Hashanah marks the year 5774 in the Jewish calendar, and takes place on the first day of the month of Tishrei: "I am pleased to extend my warmest greetings to my friends in the Jewish community for a happy and sweet New Year. Rosh Hashanah is a time for both celebration and reflection, as well as looking towards the year to come. “I am proud to represent such a caring and active Jewish community in South Florida, and hope the coming year brings prosperity and happiness for all. While we focus on improving ourselves and the world around us, we must also keep in mind all those who continue to struggle across the globe each and every single day. “I wish everyone observing Rosh Hashanah a year of good health, joy, and success. Shana Tova." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.31.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement regarding President Obama’s remarks this afternoon on Syria: “The President made the correct constitutional, political, and moral decision today. He gives Congress the opportunity to debate this matter. Furthermore, he has more time to convince additional allies abroad during his trip to the G-20 economic summit, as well as wait for the United Nations (U.N.) inspectors to make their report, and continue to seek a U.N. mandate.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.28.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement commemorating the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom: “Perhaps the most iconic event of my lifetime, the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom was a defining moment in our nation’s history. On that momentous day, hundreds of thousands of Americans stood as one to demand liberty and equal opportunity. In many ways, this singular event redefined the American experience and, to this day, Dr. Martin Luther King’s dream of an America without the burdens of prejudice and discrimination remains an unparalleled vision of our county’s potential. “The countless sacrifices and efforts of previous generations have made it possible for blacks and other minority groups to break longstanding boundaries in our society and excel. When I look back on my lifetime, I am still awestruck at how a young boy who grew up in a poor Jim Crow Florida town could grow up to become a Member of Congress for the very same state and live to see the time of an African American president in White House. It has been a true blessing to bear witness to these extraordinary times and, while the struggle to achieve equality for all continues, it is remarkable to reflect on the progress that we have made as a nation over the past half-century. “As we mark this historic anniversary, let us remember those who sacrificed so much in the name of freedom. We must never forget our history and what the civil rights movement represents. Today, I join with Americans everywhere in paying tribute to all those who keep the spirit of the civil rights movement alive, and look forward to the day when prejudice and hatred have finally been abolished from our nation forever.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.27.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letter to National Security Advisor Susan Rice, urging her to work with the Department of State and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) to establish training, capacity building, and aid delivery partnerships with Syrian relief organizations in order to assist those who are most vulnerable inside Syria as the conflict continues. Joining Congressman Hastings as Co-signers of the letter were Representatives Corrine Brown (FL-5), André Carson (IN-7), David N. Cicilline (RI-1), John Conyers (MI-13), Ted Deutch (FL-21), Keith Ellison (MN-5), Sam Farr (CA-20), Mike Honda (CA-17), Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30), William R. Keating (MA-9), Dan Kildee (MI-5), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Alan S. Lowenthal (CA-47), Gwen Moore (WI-4), James P. Moran (VA-8), Patrick E. Murphy (FL-18), Bill Pascrell, Jr. (NJ-9), Charles B. Rangel (NY-13), Loretta Sanchez (D-46), Brad Schneider (IL-10), and Frederica Wilson (FL-24). (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter). August 26, 2013 The Honorable Susan E. Rice National Security Advisor The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear National Security Advisor Rice: We write regarding the urgent need to increase the coordination and delivery of lifesaving humanitarian aid to the people of Syria. As you well know, the ongoing conflict has created a regional humanitarian crisis: over 100,000 Syrians have been killed and more than 1.9 million have fled to neighboring Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, and Turkey. Within Syria, almost 7 million people are in need of humanitarian assistance. Aid to refugees, internally displaced persons (IDPs), and host communities is critical to meeting our nation’s moral obligation to alleviate human suffering, while advancing our strategic interest in broader regional stability in the Middle East. However, factors on the ground have prevented aid agencies working inside Syria from reaching all those in need, and there is a sense that Syrian refugees and IDPs are losing hope. The international community continues to struggle with meeting the growing needs of Syrian refugees and IDPs. Due to the scale of the conflict and significant operational restrictions imposed by the Assad regime, the United Nations and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) working inside Syria have been limited in their ability to provide aid to the vulnerable population. Strikingly, while the United States has contributed over $800 million in humanitarian assistance to the Syrian people and implements vital programs through the Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance (OFDA) and Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration (PRM), it has been reported that Syrian refugees and IDPs feel increasingly abandoned. They are losing confidence and, importantly, there is a real danger that this waning confidence could hinder our ability to create the types of high-trust partnerships with Syrian humanitarian actors that are necessary to provide aid to those who need it most. Now in its third year, the Syrian conflict continues to displace thousands of people daily. A window is closing and the United States must adapt its aid delivery effort to more effectively help the people of Syria, particularly IDPs. Increased engagement with Syrian and Syrian-run groups is essential to not only expanding assistance inside Syria, but fostering the development of an active civil society. These relatively small and informal groups have been instrumental in distributing aid within Syria’s borders, including opposition-controlled and contested territory. Therefore, we urge you to work with the Department of State and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) to establish training, capacity building, and aid delivery partnerships with Syrian relief organizations in order to expand their operations. There are now Syrian aid groups working in nearly every sector of the humanitarian response. From providing flour for bakeries and medical supplies for field clinics to other basic needs such as blankets, tents, and fuel, many of them work at personal expense and risk to help as many of their fellow Syrians as possible. Some of these groups have even been able to partner with international NGOs, which rely on their information and distribution networks to deliver supplies to areas in most need, but greater coordination and funds are necessary to deliver more aid to more people. In many cases, these groups are operating with few resources other than donations from concerned people around the world. The United States should continue to uphold its commitment to provide humanitarian assistance to Syria, and expand training and capacity building programs for Syrian relief NGOs, especially those working inside Syria. To this end, we recommend that the Department of State and USAID work together to create a grant program dedicated to helping emerging Syrian aid groups that abide by humanitarian principles and exhibit the potential to effectively deliver aid to communities inside Syria. Combined with training in humanitarian principles and the international standards governing the delivery of aid, the United States could enable dozens of groups on the ground to continue assisting those inside Syria who are not reachable by other means, and who depend on them for survival. In addition, we strongly encourage the United States to lead international donors in coordinating with the Syrian Opposition Coalition’s Assistance Coordination Unit (ACU). Currently, the ACU is struggling to define its role in the overall humanitarian response and establish realistic expectations among its stakeholders. Furthermore, it has failed to reach out to many Syrian and diaspora aid providers that have access to Syria’s interior and are trusted by local communities. The ACU has the potential to become the effective coordinating body that Syrian aid groups and large international NGOs need, but it must take steps to engage them. As the international community continues working to find a peaceful resolution to end the violence in Syria, the situation on the ground grows increasingly dire. It is clear that millions of Syrians are in need of immediate assistance, and that more must be done to help Syrian IDPs. Expanding the provision of aid inside Syria can help people remain safely in their communities, but greater coordination and support are needed. Syrian and Syrian-run relief groups have proven that they can be successful in delivering cross-border and “zero-point” aid, and the United States should work with them to reach those impacted most directly by the conflict. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress John Conyers, Jr. Member of Congress Charles B. Rangel Member of Congress James P. Moran Member of Congress Corrine Brown Member of Congress Eddie Bernice Johnson Member of Congress Sam Farr Member of Congress Bill Pascrell, Jr. Member of Congress Loretta Sanchez Member of Congress Barbara Lee Member of Congress Mike Honda Member of Congress Gwen Moore Member of Congress Keith Ellison Member of Congress Andre Carson Member of Congress David N. Cicilline Member of Congress Ted Deutch Member of Congress William R. Keating Member of Congress Frederica Wilson Member of Congress Dan Kildee Member of Congress Alan S. Lowenthal Member of Congress Patrick E. Murphy Member of Congress Brad Schneider Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.26.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) attended the opening ceremony of AIDS Healthcare Foundation’s (AHF) new Broward Wellness Center in Fort Lauderdale. Since April 1, 2013, AHF has been providing clinical services for the diagnosis and treatment of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) on behalf of the Florida Department of Health in Broward County. AHF is the largest provider of HIV/AIDS medical care in the United States, with more than 200,000 patients in 28 countries worldwide. “I am proud to join AHF, the Fort Lauderdale City Commission, the Florida and Broward County Departments of Health, and members of the community to mark the opening of the Broward Wellness Center. Since its founding in 1987, AHF has been at the forefront of providing treatment and care to individuals living with HIV/AIDS regardless of their ability to pay. The addition of AHF’s new Broward Wellness Center in Fort Lauderdale represents a significant step forward in improving the health of South Florida’s residents by increasing access to testing, treatment, and care for STDs. “The truth of the matter is that, while many people know of STDs such as chlamydia, gonorrhea, hepatitis, herpes, or HPV, most know little about them. There are 19 million new cases of STDs each year, and almost half of them are among our nation’s young people between the ages of 15 and 24. In Broward County alone, the number of syphilis cases has increased dramatically since 2000, and outpaced that of the entire state since 2005. In addition, several groups, including certain racial and ethnic minorities, are disproportionately impacted by STDs. “Public misconception about STDs is widespread, in large part because many of them have no symptoms. The first step to preventing the spread of STDs and seeking treatment is testing. Knowing one’s status is vitally important to protecting one’s health. Many STDs can be easily diagnosed and treated, but only if an individual gets tested and is aware of his or her status. “All sexually active individuals can take responsibility for their health – and the health of their loved ones and community – by educating themselves about STDs. As we mark the opening of the Broward Wellness Center, I hope that this facility will further encourage an open dialogue about STDs and HIV/AIDS in our community. I remain committed to working with AIDS Healthcare Foundation and all our partners at the state and local level to ensure a healthier future for Florida.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.26.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings released the following statement marking Women’s Equality Day and the 93rd anniversary of the certification of the 19th Amendment, providing women the ability to vote on an equal basis as men: “Every year, we mark Women’s Equality Day and the courageous men and women whose struggle for women’s rights led to the ratification of the 19th Amendment. On this important anniversary, we are once again reminded of what can be accomplished with determination and resolve. “Women’s Equality Day is also an occasion to highlight the work that remains to be done to achieve full equality for all Americans. It has been nearly a century since women gained the right to vote as equals to men, yet voting rights for American minorities are still under attack. Furthermore, women now comprise nearly half of the American workforce, yet they earn on average to only 77 cents on the dollar compared to men. Though we have come far, it is clear that much remains to be done. “Today, let us draw from the examples of those who were pioneers for the cause of equal rights. I am proud to commemorate these brave advocates for equality, and as a Member of Congress, I will continue to fight for equal pay, access to education, and equal opportunities for all Americans.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.16.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letter to Jeffrey P. Bezos, CEO of Amazon Inc. asking for his consideration of the Florida Glades region as a location for a future Amazon distribution center. (Please also find a copy of the letter attached): August 16, 2013 Jeffrey P. Bezos Chief Executive Officer Amazon.com, Inc. 440 Terry Avenue North Seattle, Washington 98109 Dear Mr. Bezos, I was pleased to read of Amazon Inc.’s commitment to creating jobs and focus on employee success. Your commitment to the community is truly admirable. For instance, the Career Choice program offers to pay up to 95 percent of eligible employees’ tuition regardless of whether the skills are directly relevant to a career at Amazon, and is a testament to your good business practice of investing in people. With your leadership, Amazon has become renowned as the model for success in Internet sales, ranking highest in the world as the largest retailer on the World Wide Web. I write to ask that you consider locating one of your future Amazon Inc. distribution centers in the Florida Glades (i.e. Belle Glade, Pahokee, and South Bay), which is an area of my Congressional district that I am privileged to represent. The Glades is an ideal place for your company to continue its growth. Transportation and access to different modes of delivery are plentiful, from highway interstates, to our ports, rail, and airports. Florida is home to over 15 seaports that boast a reputation of excellence in the world of international trade. In combination with our expedient airport locations, Florida’s infrastructure is ideal for growth in the business sector, and will see a successful future through public-private partnerships with companies such as yours. In particular, Southwest Florida International Airport, located in South Fort Myers, is a prime location with untapped potential for importing or exporting goods. While the airport predominantly focuses on passenger traffic, UPS and FedEx have regularly utilized this space. There is immense, untapped potential for development of a major air cargo terminal, and the Fort Myers Regional Partnership reports that the airport has over 1,100 acres of land available for commercial expansion. Moreover, the Airport’s Fast Facts brochure notes that the entire airport is designated as a Foreign Trade Zone (FTZ), which would offer a number of potential Customs advantages to local importers/exporters that choose to locate at the airport. This investment has significant local economic incentives, and would serve well in returns to your company. Additionally, Florida has embarked on a number of rail expansion projects aiming to improve service to the state’s seaports. Port Everglades will soon be able to serve huge volumes of rail traffic thanks in part to the 30-year lease with the Florida East Coast Railway LLC (FEC) to build and operate the port intermodal container transfer facility (ICTF). Port Miami, in partnership with state, federal and private-sector partners is investing over $2 billion in major improvements to support cargo and cruise growth. The program includes large projects such as the access tunnel under Biscayne Bay, deep dredging the channel, and restored rail service. In Tampa, the Gateway Rail Project, completed in 2012 is a $10.9-million joint initiative by Tampa Port Authority, CSX Corporation, and Kinder Morgan Energy Partners. This was the first on-dock unit train facility in Florida and the multi-purpose design was aimed at ensuring that it could handle ethanol cars or intermodal containers. While agriculture has historically dominated the local economy of the Glades, I believe that we must work to create more contemporary opportunities for the people of this region. Historically, cities such as Belle Glade and Pahokee, located on the shore of Lake Okeechobee in Palm Beach County, prided themselves on the vast businesses that catered to both the local community and tourists in the form of hotels, restaurants, and boutiques. The potential for this type of economic boom still exists and will thrive to greater levels with investments by companies such as Amazon.com, Inc. Since I came to the United States Congress, just over 20 years ago, I have committed myself to the betterment of our nation, in Florida and beyond. It is my belief that when private and public sectors work together to create opportunities for people, we will see much success across our nation. I thank you for consideration of my request, and look forward to speaking with you in greater detail at your earliest convenience. I can be reached at 202-225-1313. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.14.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking the 78th anniversary of the signing of the Social Security Act: “For 78 years, Social Security Income (SSI) has provided peace of mind and financial security to millions of Americans. Nearly 60 million people, including 4 million Floridians receive more than $800 billion in Social Security benefits every year. SSI is indispensable for those who depend on it. Furthermore, it is a major source of income for many elderly Americans and disabled veterans. “I strongly oppose Republican efforts to cut Social Security payments through privatization or implementation of a formula chained to the Consumer Price Index (CPI.) This would hurt millions of vulnerable Americans who rely on SSI to make ends meet. Moving to a chained-CPI formula would result in a cut of more than $1,600 by the time beneficiaries reach their nineties, and could cost veterans of Iraq or Afghanistan up to $100,000 by age 75. That is why I recently signed a letter to President Obama urging him to oppose moving to a chained SSI-formula. As a Member of Congress, I remain committed to protecting Social Security for current beneficiaries and all who have paid into the system.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.12.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking National Health Center Week: “Our nation’s community health centers are an indispensible resource, serving 22 million people in low‐income and often underserved areas. These health centers offer high-quality, low-cost care to rural and urban communities alike, where primary health services are often unaffordable or scare. Furthermore, they provide thousands of jobs and billions of dollars in annual health savings nationwide. “Starting October 1st, nearly 32 million Americans will enter into the Health Insurance Marketplace to purchase affordable, quality health care. Community health centers will be instrumental in providing consumers with the necessary information to better understand their health care options and eligibility for financial aid. “Two of my priorities in Congress are lowering health care costs and increasing access to health care for all Americans. As we celebrate National Health Center Week, I remain committed to supporting community health centers and enacting reforms that will benefit American consumers." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.12.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement congratulating the Palm Beach County School Board on winning a five-year grant of $2,075,000 from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Division of Adolescent School Health (DASH). This is the School Board’s fourth time winning the grant, which will be used to fund numerous programs that improve adolescent school health services. “I am pleased to congratulate the Palm Beach County School Board on once again being awarded the CDC DASH grant to improve adolescent health services in Palm Beach County Schools,” said Congressman Hastings. “Portions of the grant will go towards increasing school participation in the Human Growth and Development Program, which empowers adolescent youth to make informed, responsible decisions. Additionally, the grant will go towards further implementation of the School Health Index, an online assessment to assist schools to improve their health and safety policies and programs.” “Furthermore, Palm Beach County schools will use awarded funding to prevent bullying and sexual harassment, conduct School Health Profiles and the Youth Risk Behavior Survey, and connect school nurses to organizations with expertise in adolescent health services.” “Health education programs are critically important components of adolescent education. For instance, nearly 40 percent of new HIV infections in our country are among individuals between the ages of 13 and 29, and nearly 80,000 youth in this age range currently live with HIV nationwide. Adolescent health education programs are central to preventing new infections of HIV as well as other diseases in the future,” concluded Congressman Hastings. Under the structure of the CDC grant, Palm Beach County Schools have been awarded $275,000 for the 2013 school year, and will receive $450,000 annually through 2018. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.06.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement marking the 48th anniversary of the implementation of the Voting Rights Act of 1965: “For nearly half a century, the Voting Rights Act of 1965 (VRA) has stood as a central pillar in the protection of fair voting practices. Civil rights activists throughout the country fought hard to provide all Americans with the chance to vote on Election Day, and their efforts culminated in the implementation of the VRA 48 years ago today. Despite this momentous achievement, we must remain vigilant in the face of new threats to voting rights. “Republicans have gone out of their way to make it more difficult for minorities, the elderly, and young people to vote, disenfranchising millions of Americans. Just this week, Governor Rick Scott announced a new purge of the Florida voter database. His attempt to purge voters from the voter rolls last year was suspended after his list of targeted voters shrank from 182,000 to just 198. These continued efforts are shameful. We ought to make it easier to vote, not harder. “Last month, the Supreme Court put millions of American voters at risk when it struck down Section 4 of the VRA, removing vital safeguards against racial discrimination at the polls. Voter discrimination has not disappeared, and Congress must act quickly to put in place updated voter protections to ensure that all Americans are given the chance to vote. “Today, I reaffirm my commitment to protecting all Americans at the polls. I will continue to advocate for reforms to our electoral process that benefit – not persecute – the American electorate." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.01.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (FL-20) sent the following letter to Florida Governor Rick Scott after the recent deaths of five children previously involved with the Department of Children and Families (DCF). In each instance, the parents charged with the safekeeping of these children had histories of neglect or abuse, but were deemed suitable custodians of the children by DCF investigators. Joining Hastings as co-signers of the letter were Representatives Ted Deutch (FL-21), Lois Frankel (FL-22) and Patrick Murphy (FL-18). August 1, 2013 The Honorable Rick Scott Governor Executive Office of Governor Rick Scott 400 S. Monroe St. Tallahassee, FL 32399 Dear Governor Scott: The past few weeks have been marred by the deaths of several young children who previously had contact with the Department of Children and Families (DCF). When looking at the function of child protective services and the responsibilities the state has when intervening in families, the foremost precept has always been safety. Unfortunately, the circumstances surrounding these deaths indicate that at some point, the safety of children lost its status as the prime operating principle of DCF in South Florida. The facts of several of these cases as reported are disturbing. Not simply for the terrible manner in which these children died, but also for the fact that there were points where had investigators engaged in meaningful intervention, these children might be alive today. These tragic deaths are a signal that something beyond investigator judgment, assessments, forms, and follow through is wrong. We have been through this cycle of death, outrage, and reform before, and we are in the midst of this cycle again. This cycle too easily devolves into foster care panic, where front-line social workers and investigators fearful of castigation needlessly remove children from their homes. Family preservation and child trauma are important considerations when determining the type of intervention the state will impose on a family. Certainly, there are many cases which warrant in- home services and supervision over removing children from their homes. These considerations should not fall by the wayside and be replaced with a removal fits all mentality. Conversely, this cycle must not lead to yet another form or assessment for child-welfare workers to fill out that ultimately leads to no real change or reflection. State Senator Eleanor Sobel called for hearings and you have accepted former DCF Secretary Wilkins’ resignation. However, hearings may lead only to promises and overhauls that “work” until another scandal occurs. If Florida is to have a responsive, functional child-welfare system, the response to this string of deaths must lead to comprehensive reforms both with DCF and Florida’s treatment of children in general. Governor Scott, we urge you to convene an independent panel to study child well-being within the state and make recommendations as to how we go about making Florida a state that truly nurtures and cares for its youngest. Florida must recognize and embrace prevention measures and become proactive. The Florida Children and Youth Cabinet’s vision statement is that “[a]ll children in Florida grow-up safe, healthy, educated and prepared to meet their full potential.” As of now, Governor Scott, the headlines do not reflect that vision. In addition to the apparent break down of child protection in South Florida, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) has filed suit against the state, alleging that it institutionalized 200 children with disabilities. The suit paints a picture of a state that would rather save its treasure than provide funds for home based care. Governor Scott, if the state is to grow and thrive in the manner we all want, we must devote ourselves fully to our youngest citizens. Florida prides itself on its Sunshine Laws. It is time to shine light on the conditions our children are enduring. Thank you for your attention and time for this request. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Ted Deutch Member of Congress Lois Frankel Member of Congress Patrick Murphy Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.30.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement recognizing the 48th anniversary of the creation of Medicare and Medicaid: “For 48 years, the Medicare and Medicaid programs have provided millions of seniors, families, and individuals with a reliable source of quality health care. Medicare serves virtually all Americans aged 65 and older, and is one of our country’s greatest successes. Both Medicare and Medicaid were significantly strengthened under the Affordable Care Act, saving seniors thousands of dollars, extending the lifetime of Medicare, and expanding the eligibility for Medicaid to residents with an income within 133 percent of the federal poverty level. “On this anniversary, I am committed to finding new ways to improve these programs for years to come. It is unfortunate that the Republicans in Congress continuously refuse to work across the aisle to improve our health care system. Instead, the House will vote this week for the 40th time to weaken, defund, or repeal the Affordable Care Act. This would invalidate critical reforms to Medicare that have provided seniors with free yearly wellness doctor visits, and eliminated the prescription drug ‘donut hole.’ As a Member of Congress, I refuse to let that happen, and will continue to work to ensure that Medicare and Medicaid are preserved for future generations.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.26.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings released the following statement commemorating the 23rd anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). The ADA guarantees persons with disabilities equal opportunities for employment, government services, public accommodations and transportation, communications, and commercial facilities. “The Americans with Disabilities Act was a major step forward in ensuring equal opportunities for all persons with disabilities. Through the ADA, Americans living with disabilities have the opportunity to live with freedom and equality and are provided with the tools and protections necessary to lead active and independent lives. “Today, more than 20 percent of U.S. adults have a disability, and we must continue to support programs and legislation that address their needs. Through access to education, health care, and equal employment, Americans with disabilities have an opportunity to achieve economic self-sufficiency and realize their full potential. “Furthermore, there are approximately 3.5 million veterans living with a service-connected disability. We must not waver in our support for these brave men and women as they cope with physical injuries and mental trauma. “I remain committed to doing all that I can to help Americans living with disabilities and will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to ensure equal treatment for all.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.26.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement recognizing the 65th Anniversary of the end of segregation in the United States Armed Forces: “Executive Order 9981 was a milestone in the march towards equal rights, ending segregation in the United States Armed Forces and allowing all Americans to fight for their country without regard to race. Since then, millions of men and women of many ethnicities, races, and backgrounds have served with distinction and made great sacrifices in defense of our nation. “As we honor the 65th anniversary of the signing of Executive Order 9981, we must remain vigilant to ensure continued progress on all fronts in the cause of equality. From the recent Supreme Court decision weakening the Voting Rights Act, efforts to restrict the ability of minorities to vote, and disproportionately high levels of unemployment in minority communities, it is clear that much work remains to ensure equal opportunity for all. “Today, we reflect on the courage of the brave men and women who refused to accept the status-quo, fighting for the chance to fight for their nation as equals. We honor their commitment by continuing the struggle for equal opportunity in the face of new adversity.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.23.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) introduced the Wildlife Veterinarians Employment and Training Act of 2013. The bill aims to support job growth for qualified wildlife and zoo veterinarians, as well as advance a robust public health policy across the country. (Please find attached a copy of the legislation) “Wildlife and zoological veterinarians enhance global wildlife through involvement in all aspects of conservation, education, research and development. Their important work protects animals, both wild and domestic, and they are oftentimes the first responders to dangerous and communicable diseases,” Hastings said. “My bill will help veterinary medical schools develop innovative programs specializing in wildlife and zoo veterinary medicine, while also expanding the number of practical training courses. Additionally, the legislation will provide incentives for studying and working in the veterinary field, by limiting the amount of educational debt for students through a scholarship or loan repayment program,” further noted Hastings. Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors of the legislation include: Reps. Michael Grimm (R-NY), Madeleine Z. Bordallo (D-GU), James P. Moran (D-VA), Raul M. Grijalva (D-AZ), Kurt Schrader (D-OR), Frederica S. Wilson (D-FL), and Sam Farr (D-CA) Endorsing organizations: The National Association of Federal Veterinarians, The American Association of Wildlife Veterinarians, The Chicago Zoological Society / Brookfield Zoo, The Association of Reptilian and Amphibian Veterinarians, The Saint Louis Zoo Institute for Conservation Medicine, The Association of Zoos & Aquariums, The American Fisheries Society, The Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies, The Association of American Veterinary Medical Colleges, The American Association of Zoo Veterinarians, The Wildlife Society, The American College of Zoological Medicine, The American Veterinary Medical Association, and the Zoological Association of America. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.17.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement after being honored by the National Parks Conservation Association (NPCA) with their "Friend of the National Parks" Award: "It is truly an honor to once again receive the NCPA’s 'Friend of the National Parks' Award. I take great pride in our national parks system and am privileged to have the opportunity to support our parks as a Member of Congress. “Our parklands preserve the natural beauty of this nation. Throughout the years, they have inspired and captured the imaginations of countless Americans. Our national parks are also economic anchors to the communities they border, driving tourism and providing jobs for thousands. “I am also proud to co-chair the Congressional Everglades Caucus, and will continue to work with the NCPA to raise awareness of the need for environmental preservation and protection. The safety of our parklands is not guaranteed, and issues of air pollution and climate change must be addressed before they take an irrevocable toll. Unless we act together to preserve these majestic places, we may lose them forever. It is critical that Congress support both national and local conservation efforts, as well as funding for our national park system, to ensure that they are preserved and accessible for generations to come.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.12.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement congratulating Florida Community Health Centers Inc. on winning a grant of $173,653 from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to help uninsured Americans enroll in the Affordable Care Act’s (ACA) health insurance Marketplace. The Marketplace takes effect on October 1, 2013, and will be an important tool for 32 million Americans enrolling in quality and affordable health care. “I am proud to congratulate Florida Community Health Centers Inc. on being awarded $173,653 to help Floridians purchase health insurance in the ACA Marketplace. Community health centers like Florida Community Health Centers Inc. serve more than 21 million Americans across the country every year, fighting disease, treating illness, and providing the everyday needs of families and individuals in local communities. “Starting October 1st, 32 million Americans will begin the process of purchasing affordable, quality health insurance. Approximately 1,159 community health centers, including 46 in the state of Florida, have been awarded $150 million in grants by HHS to hire and train new staff to make this as streamlined as possible. “This award will allow Florida Community Health Centers Inc. to hire four new staff members, including three enrollment assistants and one outreach worker, to conduct face-to-face, one-on-one conversations with members of the community enrolling in health coverage. Having the ability to talk to a professional face-to-face will make the process of buying insurance less daunting and better tailored to the needs of both families and individuals. These grants will help consumers get the information they need to better understand their options and determine eligibility for financial aid. “I am committed to improving health care coverage and lowering costs for Floridians, and all Americans. I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to ensure that health care reform is fully implemented in order to best serve the American people.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.09.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letter to U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Secretary (HHS) Kathleen Sebelius, requesting information on the Navigator grant program. The program was created within the Affordable Care Act (ACA) to assist individuals enrolled in health care coverage through Marketplace exchanges, which go into effect on October 1, 2013. However, HHS has yet to select awardees for the Navigator grants, raising the possibility that organizations chosen as Navigators will not have time to sufficiently train, organize, and deploy into communities to adequately assist with ACA implementation. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter). July 09, 2013 The Honorable Kathleen Sebelius Secretary U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 200 Independence Ave., SW Washington, D.C. 20201 Dear Secretary Sebelius: I write in regards to the implementation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act (ACA). As you know, the ACA created the Navigator grant program as a means of assisting individuals enrolled in health care coverage through Marketplace exchanges. To that end, the Department of Health and Human Services (the Department) published a funding opportunity on April 9, 2013, to fund Navigators in anticipation of the implementation of federal and state insurance exchanges. The application period closed on June 7, 2013. Regulations instruct that Navigators will conduct education and outreach activities, as well as provide information to individuals and the communities in which they operate. However, the Department has yet to select awardees for the Navigator grants. Nevertheless, the Federal Health Insurance Market Place launches on October 1, 2013. Thus, I am concerned that there may be a lack of timely information concerning the mechanics and requirements of the ACA. Furthermore, the training and qualification requirements necessary for organizations selected as Navigators may impede those organizations’ ability to swiftly deploy in the community. To provide some clarification on the above issues, I would appreciate answers and responses to the following questions: 1. Aside from the Navigators program, how else does the Department plan to undertake community based outreach in states? 2. When will the Department announce the Navigator grant award selections? 3. Does the Department anticipate other funding opportunities for community based organizations that wish to assist in the implementation of the ACA? 4. How will the Department ensure that Navigator organizations recruit and employ people representative of the communities they serve? 5. For the purposes of the Navigator program, how does the Department define a community or service area boundary wise? Does the Department anticipate Navigator organizations covering multiple communities? In addition, I would like to request a meeting as soon as possible with your good offices, to discuss the aforementioned questions and concerns. Madam Secretary, despite the fact that the Department has continued to implement the ACA, the general public and even community based organizations still have many questions regarding various aspects of the law. I believe that this information gap must be corrected in an extremely timely manner. I look forward to hearing back from you on this important request. Thank you for your consideration. With warm regards, I remain, Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.04.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in celebration of Independence Day: “Today, we celebrate the 237th anniversary of the signing of the Declaration of Independence and birth of our nation. Built on a cornerstone of liberty, the United States remains a beacon of freedom and symbol of progress worldwide. “As we gather in small towns and major cities across the country, let us pay tribute to all who have sacrificed and continue to sacrifice in defense of our nation. It is with a heavy heart that we remember the American heroes throughout the ages who have given their lives to defend our safety and the freedoms we enjoy today. “While we face many great challenges, we need only look to our own history to inspire us. As a people, we have soared to new heights, persevered through times of great trial, and worked together to create the most prosperous nation in the world. “On this Fourth of July, let us remember what makes this nation and its people great.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.02.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) issued the following statement in support of the National Day of Action, organized by the Alliance for Retired Americans (the Alliance). The Alliance’s “Human Chain Against Chained CPI” demonstrations have been organized across the nation to protest proposed changes to the Social Security benefits formula, in which Social Security would be chained to the Consumer Price Index (CPI), resulting in significant cuts in benefits for Social Security recipients: “Today, I stand with the Alliance and its members across the country in support of a strong Social Security program, and against the chained-CPI formula. In a time of economic uncertainty, seniors need to know that their Social Security will remain secure. “For over 75 years, Social Security has provided financial safety to the millions of Americans who have worked hard and made this country great. Nearly 4 million Floridians and 50 million Americans depend on their monthly Social Security retirement, survivor, and disability benefits to make ends meet. Social Security is an indispensable safety net, not an expendable extravagance. “Switching to the chained-CPI formula would immediately cost seniors and retirees hundreds of dollars of benefits every year – money that those on fixed incomes cannot afford to lose. Over time, this amount would increase, eventually costing recipients of Social Security more than a full month’s worth of benefits every year. Seniors cannot simply switch from one medication to another or postpone life-saving surgery to save money. For the millions already struggling to get by, the loss of income from a chained-CPI would be devastating. “A chained-CPI formula would also have a devastating effect on benefits for military veterans. The American Association of Retired Persons (AARP) calculates that a 30-year-old veteran who has served in Iraq or Afghanistan, could face a loss of benefits for combat-related disabilities of more than $100,000 by age 75. It is our responsibility to provide for the veterans who have sacrificed so much for this country. “The Social Security program is not to blame for our nation’s budgetary difficulties. Cutting benefits for seniors, retirees, and the disabled in the name of fiscal responsibility is absolutely irresponsible. I stand behind the Alliance’s efforts, and will remain a tireless advocate for a robust Social Security system in Congress.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.02.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the passing of former Philadelphia Congressman and House Majority Whip William Gray: “I have had the privilege of knowing Congressman Bill Gray for many years. The news of his passing was completely unexpected and very heartbreaking. Our nation has lost a great advocate for the middle class, a dedicated public servant, an educator, and a man who broke down barriers. For nearly five decades, Bill served the people of Philadelphia in Congress. He was a tireless advocate for advancing education and opportunity. “Bill was a man of unshakable faith, and I was continuously inspired by his passion for helping others. He dedicated himself to expanding educational resources for African American students across America, and helped low-income families gain access to affordable housing. As a Member of Congress, he rose to become the first African American to serve as Chair of the Budget Committee and House Majority Whip. “Bill’s leadership and strength of character are a true inspiration. His legacy will speak for itself, and be a testament to all that he accomplished throughout his life. “I am truly honored to have known him as a friend and colleague. Today, my thoughts and prayers are with his wife Andrea, his three sons, his loved ones, and the people of Philadelphia in this most difficult time of sadness.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.01.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement after Congress failed to reach a compromise to prevent the doubling of student loan rates from 3.4 percent to 6.8 percent: “I am deeply troubled that Republicans in Congress could not find the will to act before the student loan interest rates doubled. It is outrageous that Speaker Boehner and House Republicans chose to allow student loan rates to double, rather than work with Democrats on a bipartisan solution to protect our nation’s students. “Again and again, economists, business owners, and manufacturers tell us of the need for a highly-trained workforce capable of competing in our modern global economy. However, when given the chance to keep higher education affordable, Speaker Boehner and House Republicans closed-up shop and left town, leaving new loan recipients with an additional $1,000 in interest over the life of their student loans. This crisis was easily avoidable, yet hyper-partisanship prevailed once again. “Congress must act responsibly to restore the lower student loan rate as soon as possible. To do anything less would be a tremendous disservice to our nation’s students, and a threat to our economic prosperity.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.28.2013	“One year ago, the Supreme Court upheld the challenge to the Affordable Care Act (ACA). Since then, the ACA has made a difference in the lives of millions of Americans, expanding health benefits, increasing access to care, and making insurance more affordable. “Because of the ACA, over 6 million young adults have been able to stay on their parents’ insurance plans, and more than 17 million children can no longer be denied health coverage. Furthermore, more than 360,000 small business owners have already utilized the Small Business Health Care Tax Credit to help them provide insurance to over 2 million workers. America’s seniors have also benefited from free preventative care and reduced prescription drug costs. Starting in October, families and individuals across the nation will have an opportunity to enroll in health plans through the Health Insurance Marketplace, expanding coverage to more than 32 million Americans. “Despite the historic gains made with the passage of the ACA, Republicans in Congress continue to work to weaken health care reform. To date, Speaker Boehner and the Republican leadership have held 37 votes to repeal the ACA, at a cost of more than $50 million. This is despite the fact that ACA’s savings was nearly $4 billion to consumers last year alone. “Making health care affordable and within reach to all Americans should be a priority in Congress. I will continue working with my colleagues to implement reforms that will improve health care coverage and lower costs for all.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.27.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement to mark the 19th Annual National HIV Testing Day, an initiative of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) aimed at promoting HIV testing: “Despite the availability of HIV testing and treatment, there are 50,000 new cases of HIV each year, disproportionately impacting men who have sex with men (MSM), African Americans, Hispanics, and young people. Of the approximately 1.2 million people living with HIV in the United States, about one in five do not know that they are infected, putting their health and the health of others at risk. The fact of the matter is that a pervasive stigma still exists with regard to HIV/AIDS, keeping individuals from getting tested, forcing them to hide their status, and preventing them from seeking help. “According to the CDC, in 2012, only 33 percent (378,906) of individuals living with HIV were being treated with antiretroviral drugs. Furthermore, only 25 percent (287,050) of them achieved viral suppression, which means that the amount of virus is so low as to be undetectable. Linking people to HIV care – and retaining them in that care – results in better health outcomes and helps prevent the spread of HIV. “However, people who need HIV treatment cannot get it if they do not know that they have HIV. In Congress, I have worked tirelessly to increase access to routine HIV testing, as well as continue to support vital funding for the AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP), Ryan White Program, and National AIDS Strategy. Routine HIV testing is the key to accessing lifesaving drugs and, thanks to new recommendations by the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) and the Affordable Care Act (ACA), will soon be covered or incentivized by Medicare, Medicaid, and private insurance plans. “National HIV Testing Day is a critical tool in our ongoing efforts to raise public awareness about HIV/AIDS. This year’s theme, ‘Take the Test, Take Control,’ is a reminder of the responsibility that we each have to ourselves and our communities to break the silence of HIV stigma and find out our status. With each HIV test, we come one step closer to realizing an AIDS-free generation.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.26.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the Supreme Court’s decisions in the case of United States v. Windsor, which challenges the federal Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA), and the case of Hollingsworth v. Perry, which challenges California’s Proposition 8: “It is indeed an historic day for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) equality in this country. This morning, the Supreme Court announced in a 5-4 decision that DOMA is unconstitutional as a deprivation of the equal liberty of persons that is protected by the Fifth Amendment. In the Opinion of the Court, Justice Anthony Kennedy wrote, ‘The federal statute is invalid, for no legitimate purpose overcomes the purpose and effect to disparage and to injure those whom the State, by its marriage laws, sought to protect in personhood and dignity.’ “Furthermore, in a 5-4 decision, Chief Justice John Roberts of the Supreme Court announced that, ‘because petitioners have not satisfied their burden to demonstrate standing to appeal the judgment of the District Court, the Ninth Circuit was without jurisdiction to consider the appeal.’ This means that the proponents of Proposition 8 do not have the legal right to defend the ban in court and that the case will be sent back with instructions for dismissal, allowing the State of California to resume marrying gay and lesbian couples. “The Supreme Court decisions regarding DOMA and Proposition 8 serve as a testament to our nation’s enduring commitment to justice and fairness for all. As a result of today’s decisions, devoted gay and lesbian couples living in marriage equality states across the country will have greater certainty in being able to provide for themselves and their families, from being able to receive Social Security benefits and spousal medical coverage to family leave and pension benefits. In addition, approximately one-third of Americans now live in a jurisdiction that recognizes and protects the rights of all married individuals, regardless of whom they love. “I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate Edie Windsor and the plaintiffs of Proposition 8, as well as activists for equality everywhere, on these tremendous victories. This day would not be possible without them. Their example of courage is truly inspiring, and proof that love conquers hate. “Just as the discriminatory law known as ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ was ultimately repealed in 2011, DOMA and Proposition 8 were destined to fail. However, it is important to remember that our work is far from over. While these landmark decisions mean the end of DOMA and Proposition 8, there is still no guarantee that the marriage of a gay or lesbian couple will be recognized if they move from one state to another. As a proud original co-sponsor of the Respect for Marriage Act, I will continue working with my colleagues in Congress to ensure that the rights of legally married gay and lesbian couples are protected no matter where they choose to live. “As we celebrate today’s news, I am reminded of the extraordinary progress that we have made in recent years to advance LGBT equality in this country. More Americans than ever before now agree that, when it comes to marriage, the strength of a couple’s devotion is more important than their gender. It is my sincere hope that every state in our great nation will soon come to this same realization.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.25.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in recognition of the 75th anniversary of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA): “The FLSA was as vital then as it is now, protecting millions from unfair business practices while ensuring equality in the workplace. Under the FLSA, the first national minimum wage was established, time-and-a-half payment for overtime work was guaranteed, and for the first time, children under the age of 18 were prohibited from ‘oppressive child labor.’ “Over the years, the FLSA has been updated to prohibit work discrimination based on age or gender; increase the federal minimum wage; expand protections to workers in schools, hospitals, and nursing homes, as well as farmers and seasonal migrant workers; and provide break time for nursing mothers. Yet, despite the progress that has been made, it is clear that much more still must be done. Congress last passed an increase to the federal minimum wage six years ago, prior to the worst economic recession since the Great Depression. “Millions of families continue to struggle to make ends meet, and income inequality remains a pervasive factor in the workforce. It is vital that Congress protect American workers, and support policies that level the playing field to ensure equal opportunity for all. In addition, we must increase the minimum wage to make certain that all Americans are able to earn a livable wage. Doing so, would raise millions out of poverty, and help communities that have struggled to recover since the recession began. “I remained committed to doing all that I can to help middle class families and working poor Americans who are struggling during these tough economic times.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.25.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement on the Supreme Court’s decision in the case of Shelby County v. Holder, which invalidates Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act of 1965: “I am extremely disappointed by the Supreme Court’s ruling. They have put at risk the right to vote for millions of Americans. For decades, the Voting Rights Act has stood as an essential safeguard against racial discrimination in our political system. Unfortunately, voter suppression and discrimination still exist at the polls, and today’s announcement undermines our nation’s efforts to create an open and transparent electoral process for all. “The right to vote is both precious and sacred, and that is why we must always be mindful of our nation’s history. I believe that, with today’s decision, the Supreme Court has overstepped its bounds, and now Congress must act. “I, along with many others in Florida and across the country, have fought long and hard for the right to vote. We cannot sit idly by. Now is the time for Congress to stand up and be heard. We must not allow the clock to turn back on voting rights in this country.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.20.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement recognizing World Refugee Day: “Every year, the United Nations (UN) and human rights groups around the world mark World Refugee Day on June 20th. As we recognize the more than 43 million refugees who have been displaced from their homes or separated from their communities and families, we in turn must recommit ourselves to raising awareness of the global refugee crisis and doing all that we can to lessen this terrible burden. “Refugees are more than statistics: they are people who have lost everything – each with their own story to tell and experiences to share – and whose futures remain uncertain. Refugees and those who have been internally displaced are predominantly women and children, driven away from their homes by armed conflict, persecution, food and water insecurity, or natural disasters. In their search for safety, they risk becoming victims of kidnapping, rape, torture, and murder. “Today, as we recognize the tens of millions who have been displaced and live under the constant threat of violence, we must recognize how much remains to be done to protect vulnerable individuals around the world. Every minute, eight people are forced to leave everything behind. The crisis in Syria is a stark reminder of the needs of refugees and those who have been displaced worldwide. Two weeks ago, the UN launched the largest appeal for humanitarian aid in history, requesting $5 billion to help the more than 10 million Syrians affected by the civil war – half of the country’s population. “On May 8, 2013, I sent a letter to President Barack Obama and UN Ambassador Susan Rice to address the crisis in Syria, where nearly 100,000 civilians have been killed and nearly 2 million refugees have fled to seek safety in Lebanon, Jordan, Turkey, Iraq, and Egypt. The people of Syria have suffered incredible loss, witnessed atrocities, and experienced trauma as civil war drags into its third year. The UN projects that the number of refugees will rise to 3.5 million by the end of 2013, and that as many as 4.25 million Syrians have been internally displaced. Furthermore, the confirmed use of chemical weapons such as Sarin poison gas adds further urgency to the situation. Imposing a no-fly zone over Syria would help put an end to the violence and bring about the political transition necessary for a democratic Syria. “As Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, I will continue to work tirelessly for the rights of refugees and those who have been displaced across the world. Despite the many challenges that we face here at home and abroad, we must not turn a blind eye to those in need. Refugees leave because they have no choice. As a nation, we have the choice to help.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.19.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in recognition of the 148th anniversary of Juneteenth: “148 years ago, a dark chapter of American history came to a close, and the institution of slavery was finally abolished, allowing all Americans to be free. “On June 19, 1865, nearly three years after President Abraham Lincoln signed the Emancipation Proclamation, General Gordon Granger and 2,000 Union troops marched into Galveston, Texas and freed the last slave. In this moment, a new chapter of hope and opportunity was born, and America began the long march towards equal opportunity for all. This great stride was not without difficulty, and was soon cast into doubt with the institutionalization of Jim Crow and segregation. It would take another century, and a civil rights movement unparalleled in history, to realize the cause of freedom for all Americans. “Every year, we mark this day to commemorate our nation’s triumph over slavery and our continued struggles against injustice. Because of the countless sacrifices of those in past generations and all who took part in the civil rights movement, the opportunities available to African Americans today are seemingly endless. Though we cannot claim to live in a land free from injustice and discrimination, we can feel immense pride in how far we have come. “As we take time to celebrate our common bond of freedom, let us remember our fellow Americans, as well as those serving abroad, who continue to fight for equality and justice for all people. We must never forget where we have come from, and what we can achieve together. Today, I join our nation in the celebration of Juneteenth and pledge to continue to fight for a more perfect union, with liberty and justice for all.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.18.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in response to H.R. 1797, the District of Columbia Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act: “Since 1972, women in America have been able to determine their own reproductive lives. The constitutional right to privacy has withstood numerous legal challenges and helped ensure that more women have access to lifesaving reproductive services. This bill is nothing more than a continuation of the Republicans’ attack on women. It would deny care to women in the most desperate of circumstances and is a blatant attempt to chip away at a woman’s right to choose. “Instead of using the House’s time to address jobs, the sequester, or work on important appropriations legislation, Republicans have decided to continue their war against women. I find it to be extremely outrageous and strongly oppose this bill.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.17.2013	(Washington D.C.) Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in recognition of the 7th annual National Pollinator Week, which is celebrated from June 17-23, 2013. “As the co-founder and co-chairman of the Congressional Pollinator Protection Caucus, I am proud to recognize the 7th annual National Pollinator Week. Our ecosystem is delicate and relies greatly on pollinators such as bees, birds, butterflies, bats and other insects to move pollen and promote fertilization. “Seventy-five percent of all flowering plants rely on the transfer of pollen between flowers for fertilization. Hundreds of plants that are grown for food and medicine rely on pollination, including coffee, potatoes, and many varieties of nuts and fruit. These plants and vegetation contribute to the annual production of tens of billions of dollars worth of commodities in the United States. “Over the past seven years, National Pollinator Week has become an occasion to bring attention to the vital need for pollinators and the threats they face. A recent decline in the population of pollinators worldwide endangers not only our global ecosystem, but also our supply of food and goods. As the number of pollinators begins to improve, it is vital that we do all we can to preserve and protect them in the future.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.14.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) released the following statement regarding yesterday’s hearing of the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe (Helsinki Commission) on the status of Syrian refugees: “The international community has taken far too long to respond to the pressing needs of the Syrian people displaced within their own country and struggling in the refugee camps of Turkey, Jordan, Iraq, Lebanon, and Egypt. Three-quarters of the over 1.6 million are women and children, fighting to overcome tremendous loss and trauma. I saw this personally this past February when I joined a Congressional delegation led by our Chairman to a refugee camp in Kilis, Turkey. The Turkish government and other surrounding nations have made selfless investments to meet the humanitarian needs of the Syrian people and they should not bear this hardship alone. “I applaud the tremendous contributions that the United States has made with over $500 million in non-lethal assistance. Yet this is just a drop in the bucket compared to the overall need for security and humanitarian investment. The Syrian Regional Response Plan requirement from December 2012 alone indicates a financial need of over $1 billion to meet the humanitarian needs of refugees in the region. This need was only 73 percent funded a month ago. This plan is only a component of the Syrian conflict’s overall financial impact on the region. “I serve as Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe Parliamentary Assembly Special Representative on Mediterranean Affairs and traveled extensively in the Maghreb and Mashreq to promote parliamentary diplomacy and the principles of the Helsinki Process. I traveled to Syria in this capacity in January 2010 and personally met with Bashar al-Assad. As I pressed him on the importance of honoring the right of his people to exercise their civil liberties and fundamental freedoms, I knew immediately that he would not give in and that his regime would not end well. Many others recognized this long before civil war erupted and yet years have passed without the necessary effort by the international community to stop the violence. “It is crucial that we focus our discussion today on how to generate a more effective response to the need of Syrian refugees. We must however, not neglect the current security situation which will put many more innocents in harm’s way if not addressed. On May 8, I sent a letter to President Obama and Ambassador Susan Rice to urge them to support imposing a no-fly zone over Syria, particularly in light of the continued indiscriminate shelling of innocents and the use of chemical weapons by the Assad regime. We must not sit idly by and let more families be torn apart and more civilians become refugees. The Syrian people will remember in their time of need whether the international community and the United States did all within their power to support them. We must take a leadership role in meeting that need.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.10.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in recognition of the 50th Anniversary of the signing of the Equal Pay Act: “With the signing of the Equal Pay Act 50 years ago, our nation affirmed wage equality to be one of our national tenets. Today, let us rededicate ourselves to ending wage disparities once and for all and ensuring that equal work receives equal pay for all Americans. “At the time of the passage of the Equal Pay Act, women comprised a third of the workforce, but earned a mere 59 cents on the dollar compared to men. Today, even as nearly half of American workers are women, their pay on average has risen to only 77 cents on the dollar. For African American and Latina women, the amount is even less. We take time today to celebrate the significance of this landmark legislation, yet it is clear that much remains to be done in order to achieve wage equality for all Americans. “There are approximately sixty-five million women in the American workforce today. Families across the country increasingly rely on the wages that women earn to pay the bills and make ends meet. Now more than ever it is clear that pay equity is not just an issue for women, but an issue for all American families. “In recent years, Democrats in Congress have made great advances in achieving the goal of paycheck equality across America. The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009, important legislation that restored the rights of women to challenge unfair and discriminatory wages in court, was the first bill signed into law by President Obama. Other important legislation such as the Paycheck Fairness Act and the Fair Minimum Wage Act of 2013 will increase enforcement of equal pay laws and raise the national minimum wage, making it easier for families across America to put food on the table. “All workers - regardless of age, color, disability, gender, national origin, race, or religion - should be paid equally based on their work. As a Member of Congress, I pledge to continue working towards achieve equal pay for all.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.03.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) issued the following statement in recognition of June as National Caribbean-American Heritage Month: “Hundreds of years ago, the first Caribbean-Americans began to journey to the shores of the Americas. Some came bound in the chains of bondage; others came in search of a better life in a brand new nation. Caribbean Americans such as Alexander Hamilton helped shape our country from its earliest days, and since the inception of the United States, Caribbean-Americans have had a profound influence on the direction we have taken. This month, we are once again reminded that America’s greatness is a result of its diversity. “Caribbean-Americans like Sidney Poitier and Harry Belafonte have had strong cultural impacts in the United States, contributing to our educational institutions and influencing our art, music, poetry, and literature. Other prominent Caribbean-Americans such as Colin Powell are public servants, members of the armed forces, and business leaders. Their achievements and service exemplify our national spirit and the fundamental ideal that, with determination and hard work, anyone can achieve success. “The Caribbean-American community in my district is no exception and helps to make South Florida the vibrant destination and hub for international business that it is today. I am proud to recognize National Caribbean-American Heritage Month, and the countless contributions that Caribbean-Americans have made in strengthening and enriching the fabric of our nation.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.01.2013	(Fort Lauderdale, FL) Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in commemoration of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) Pride Month: “LGBT Pride Month is upon us once again and, as we observe the 44th anniversary of the Stonewall Riots, we are reminded that the struggle for freedom, fairness, and equal opportunity for all continues. With each passing day, more and more people around the world are taking a stand against discrimination and affirming the equal human rights of LGBT individuals. I am truly proud to be a part of this historic movement, and encouraged by the great progress that has been made. “In the past year alone, we have seen tremendous examples of leadership and courage. The Boy Scouts of America voted to lift its ban on openly gay youth members, the Peace Corps announced that it will allow same-sex couples to serve together for the first time in its history, and Jason Collins came out as the first openly gay active athlete in a major professional sport. Furthermore, six additional states legalized marriage equality. “On the federal level, both Proposition 8 and the Defense of Marriage Act, also known as ‘DOMA,’ were challenged in the Supreme Court, and I eagerly look forward to its final rulings this summer. These discriminatory measures have no place in our society, and I am confident that they will fail. In addition, following the landmark passage in Congress of the Matthew Sheppard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act and the repeal of ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ in recent years, we must strive to protect workers from discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity, ensure that LGBT families are not forgotten in immigration reform, and foster a culture of acceptance, tolerance, and respect amongst our youth. “This June, I encourage my colleagues in Congress and all Americans to join me in recognizing LGBT Pride Month. Brick by brick, we will dismantle the institution of hate and build an inclusive future for our nation as a whole.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.29.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) announced that Ms. Ritha Mirthil of Ft. Lauderdale has won the 32nd Annual Congressional Art Competition. Ritha’s painting, a piece entitled, “Now that’s real comedy,” was selected to represent the 20th district in Washington for the next year. “Ritha’s portrait, ‘Now that’s real comedy’ was a true standout in this year’s competition,” said Hastings. Ritha is a senior at Stranahan High School in Ft. Lauderdale, where she studies art under her teacher Nancy Green. Her painting is a portrait of comedian Steve Harvey. In addition to winning the district art competition, Ritha will have the opportunity to travel to Washington, DC in order to attend an unveiling ceremony hosted by the House of Representatives on June 26, 2013. “Now that’s real comedy,” along with the artwork of other national winners, will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. “It is very important that we continue to support the arts and art education in our nation’s schools,” added Hastings. “As schools around the country face belt-tightening, art programs often feel the sting of these budget cuts.” “The Congressional Art Competition has provided an opportunity for young artists to display their talent and creativity for over 30 years, and is an excellent way for the United States Congress to promote art education in our schools,” Hastings further noted. “I congratulate Ritha on this great achievement and wish her the best of luck in her future endeavors.” Since the annual Congressional Art Competition began, more than 650,000 high school students have participated throughout the nation. Any student attending a school located in the 20th Congressional district, which includes parts of Broward, Palm Beach, and Hendry Counties, is qualified to participate. Paintings, drawings, collages, prints, mixed media, computer generated art, and photography are all eligible for submission into the competition. Students and teachers interested in learning more about the Congressional Art Competition should contact Hastings’ Fort Lauderdale Office at (954) 733-2800. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.29.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement regarding the upcoming hurricane season, which will begin on June 1, 2013: “While it is impossible to predict exactly when and where hurricanes will take place in the coming months, forecasters agree that the Atlantic hurricane season will be a busy one. These destructive and often unpredictable storms pose significant danger to our communities, and it is critical that all Floridians adequately prepare for them. “I will continue to work closely with federal, state, and local agencies in the coming months to ensure that the necessary resources are available in the event of a natural disaster. In particular, I will push for much-needed reform as it relates to prioritizing power restoration, debris removal, the availability of local generators, and ensuring temporary housing for those who become displaced. “It is imperative that all Floridians prepare early, in order to be ready if a hurricane should make landfall.” For additional information on the 2013 hurricane season, please visit Hastings’ official website at www.alceehastings.house.gov. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.27.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement commemorating Memorial Day: "As we mark this year’s Memorial Day, let us remember the brave men and women who have fought and died in defense of our country. Today, we pay tribute to the countless Americans who have served in the United Sates Armed Forces. Reflecting on the sacrifices made by so many, we honor their courage and dedication to preserving the rights of all Americans. "This is also a time to recognize and thank our veterans for their service, as well as those protecting our country while stationed around the globe. As a nation, we would not be where we are today without the unwavering commitment of our armed forces. I would again like to convey my profound respect and admiration to those who have served in years past and those who continue to serve. “In Congress, I will continue to fight for the rights of all veterans, active duty members of the armed forces, and their families. I am committed to aiding each and every one of my constituents returning home from deployment overseas as they access the services and benefits they rightly deserve. This Memorial Day, I encourage my colleagues in Congress as well as all Americans to join me in honoring and supporting our service members and veterans.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.25.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee Hastings (D-FL) issued the following statement in recognition of the 6th anniversary of the passage of the Fair Minimum Wage Act of 2007. The Fair Minimum Wage Act raised the minimum wage to $7.25 per hour in 2009, and was the first increase in the minimum wage since 1997. “It is vital that the American worker receives a fair and honest wage. The Fair Minimum Wage Act of 2007 gave millions of Americans the raise they deserved, and I was proud to be a cosponsor of this legislation in the 110th Congress. “Today, a full-time minimum-wage worker earns only $15,800 a year, making it nearly impossible to support a family and save for the future. As thirty million Americans struggle to get by on minimum wage salaries, and millions more remain out of work, it is clear that the time has come to again take action to increase the minimum wage. The current level is unreflective of today’s living standards and unfair to those workers who find it nearly impossible to make a decent living. American workers deserve better. “Raising the minimum wage would put more money in the pockets of hard working Americans. In my state of Florida, nearly 20 percent of families are living in poverty, this to me is unacceptable. That is why I am proud to support legislation like the Fair Minimum Wage Act of 2013, which will increase the federal minimum wage to $10.10 in the next three years. “I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to enact smart legislation that will reduce income inequality for American workers, strengthen the middle class, and support the creation of new jobs.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.25.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement marking the 10th Anniversary of the War in Iraq: “The United States invaded Iraq on March 19, 2003, marking the beginning of a protracted war that lasted nine long years. Although the last American troops were brought home from Iraq at the end of 2011, the effects of our military intervention there will be felt for decades to come. “Nearly 4,500 American lives were lost during the decade long war in Iraq, and 32,000 of our troops have returned home wounded with combat injuries from the battlefield or suffering from Post Traumatic Stress Disorder. Almost 130,000 Iraqis were killed and millions more displaced. The bill for the U.S. taxpayer was $1.7 trillion. “When Congress first debated the resolution authorizing the use of force in Iraq in 2002, I voiced serious concerns regarding the existence of weapons of mass destruction and the lack of a long-term strategy in the region. I believed then, as I still do now, that the Bush administration chose to intervene for its own purposes rather than by necessity. That is why I could not, in good conscience, vote in favor of sending our troops to Iraq. “During the debate, I introduced an alternative resolution requiring the Bush administration to develop a comprehensive plan to ensure cultural, economic, and political stability in a free Iraq. Unfortunately, Congress did not pass my resolution and the invasion of Iraq went forward. “As we mark the 10th anniversary of the Iraq War, we must remember those who gave their lives in defense of our country. I would like to once again thank our brave men and women in uniform for their service and sacrifice. As Congress considers budget proposals and spending cuts, we must ensure that we protect those who have given so much in Iraq and Afghanistan. Veterans return home facing higher rates of unemployment, homelessness, mental health disorders, and suicide. It is vital that Congress continues to support legislation that will allow our members of the military to make the transition back into civilian life." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as a Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.21.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the massive tornado that recently struck Oklahoma: “Natural disasters are the world’s cruelest actions in their disregard for human life. They do not discriminate or have any logic to the devastation that they cause. My thoughts and prayers are with the people of Oklahoma, their families, and everyone who was injured or impacted by yesterday’s tornado. “We cannot forget the human story: the families that have lost loved ones, the families that will have to relocate, and the families whose lives will never be the same. However, as painful as this loss has been, I know that the people of Moore will get through this difficult time and persevere. “I am truly grateful to the first responders who continue to do all that they can to help with recovery efforts. As a Member of Congress, I stand committed to working with my colleagues to ensure that the residents of Oklahoma have all the resources they need to rebuild their communities.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.20.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement recognizing the 20th Anniversary of the National Voter Registration Act, also known as the Motor Voter Act: “The National Voter Registration Act, signed into law 20 years ago, was instrumental in removing barriers that held back countless minorities and lower income Americans from voting. “As a Member of Congress, I was fortunate to have the opportunity to cast my vote in favor of this important legislation, providing all eligible Americans the opportunity to register to vote at their local Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) or Post Office. This law brought integrity to our electoral system, and has allowed millions of Americans to vote. “In recent years, many states enacted new laws purposefully limiting the ability of minorities, seniors, college students, and even veterans from casting their ballots in our nation’s elections. These laws result in the disenfranchisement of large portions of our population, however, any law that limits the ability of certain groups to vote undermines our nation’s electoral process. “In honor of this historic day, I remain committed to working to protect every Americans’ ability to vote.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.17.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in recognition of the 9th Annual International Day Against Homophobia and Transphobia, which was established in 2004 to raise awareness of legal and social discrimination against lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) individuals worldwide: “On May 17, 1990, the World Health Organization (WHO) officially declassified homosexuality as a mental disorder, marking a momentous victory in the ongoing struggle to recognize the universal human rights and dignity of LGBT people everywhere. It is in that same spirit of shared humanity that I observe the International Day Against Homophobia and Transphobia today, which is being commemorated in over 100 countries. While more individuals across the globe now support the rights of LGBT individuals than ever before, we must continue our efforts to raise awareness and address the persistent discrimination, violence, and hate that so many LGBT persons still face in the United States and abroad. “In 78 countries around the world, loving someone of the same sex is illegal and, in at least five countries, even punishable by death. Too often, acts of violence against LGBT individuals go unpunished, and are in some cases inflicted or condoned by state officials. Furthermore, in a majority of countries, millions of citizens are denied critical rights and protections everyday based solely on their sexual orientation or gender identity. “Sadly, we have seen a rise in violence and stigma against LGBT individuals in recent years, particularly in Eurasia, the Middle East, and Africa. I remain concerned about proposed legislation in countries like Russia and Uganda that criminalizes homosexuality, as well as by the increase in anti-homosexual sentiment incited by far-right groups. The International Day Against Homophobia and Transphobia is a tremendous opportunity for us to unite against hate wherever we are and, together, work towards an inclusive world free from violence and discrimination. “One year ago, President Obama issued the first ever Presidential Memorandum to advance the human rights of LGBT persons, requiring all U.S. agencies engaged abroad to ‘ensure that U.S. diplomacy and foreign assistance promote and protect the human rights of LGBT persons.’ I applaud the Administration’s leadership in this endeavor, and urge my colleagues in Congress to join me in supporting efforts to address homophobia and transphobia here at home as well. In order for the United States to truly champion the message of freedom and equality around the world, it must also uphold the equal rights of all Americans.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.17.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced legislation expressing the sense of the House of Representatives regarding the contributions of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES). CITES was created in 1973 to ensure that the survival of endangered species is not threatened by international trade, and provides varying protections for more than 34,000 species of plants and animals. (Please find attached a copy of the legislation) “This resolution recognizes the important contributions that CITIES has made in protecting and regulating the international trade of endangered species worldwide. It commends the Convention’s leadership in protecting elephants, sharks and other endangered species, and urges all parties participating in the next Conference of the Parties in South Africa (2016) to work together to adopt stronger protections for several endangered species in order to curb excessive exploitations for international trade. “Nearly 5,000 species of animals and 29,000 species of plants are protected by the Convention against over-exploitation through international trade. Unfortunately, both legal and illegal international trade have exacerbated the dangers of over-exploitation and brought more and more species closer to extinction. International wildlife trade is estimated to be worth billions of dollars per year and includes hundreds of millions of live plants, animals, and products such as leather, fur, ivory and timber. “Every two to three years, the Conference of the Parties reviews the status of species in danger of extinction in order to adjust trade restrictions. The 16th meeting of the Conference of the Parties was held in March. Several proposals were submitted during the summit, some of them ensuring better protections for endangered species, and others trying to downlist species and re-open trade. While proposals to add extra protections for five shark species were successfully adopted, proposals to establish stronger protections for the polar bear and other species were unfortunately rejected. I am saddened to see that economic interests have prevailed over important conservation efforts, potentially bringing many species one-step closer to extinction. This is unacceptable. “The United States has a moral obligation to protect endangered species and their natural habitat. Wild animals are a very important part of our commonly held natural resources and contribute to the diversity and stability of our environment. It is essential to work with the international community to ensure the survival of these incredible species. I believe that the stakes are too high to let national interests and differences hinder the future of our planet.” Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors of the legislation include: Representatives John Lewis, Gerry Connolly, Sam Farr, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Bobby Rush, Keith Ellison, Betty McCollum, Raul M. Grijalva, Earl Blumenauer, Madeleine Z. Bordallo. Organizations supporting this legislation include: The Humane Society of the United States and the Animal Welfare Institute. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.12.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement after voting against H.R. 1120, the Preventing Greater Uncertainty in Labor-Management Relations Act. The House of Representatives passed the legislation 219-209, with 10 Republicans joining Democrats in voting against the bill. “H.R. 1120, the Preventing Greater Uncertainty in Labor-Management Relations Act, drastically undermines labor laws in our country. This legislation seeks to roll back workers’ rights and limit the ability of regulators to do their jobs. The bill nullifies some 569 decisions made by the National Labor Review Board (NLRB) over the past 14 months, leaving it without the ability to act at any level for the foreseeable future. “As millions of people face furloughs, potential job losses, and continued unemployment as a result of the recent budgetary sequester, I can’t help but shake my head at the silliness of voting on yet another piece of legislation that focuses on something other than job creation. Over 11 million Americans are still unemployed as we recover from the recession of 2009, yet rather than coming together to find solutions to these problems, Republicans are pushing for legislation that imposes more limits on the rights of hardworking Americans in an effort to go after organized labor. This is an exercise in politics, plain and simple. “Despite claims that this legislation was in response to President Obama’s recess appointments to the Board, the facts tell a different story. President George W. Bush made 171 recess appointments, and President Ronald Reagan made 240. When contrasting this with President Obama’s 34 recess appointments, it is clear that this legislation was designed to score political points with the Republican Party, and not to effect real reform. What we are left with is another largely partisan bill that will ultimately hurt hardworking American families.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as a Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.08.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letter to President Barack Obama and Ambassador Susan Rice, U.S. Permanent Representative to the United Nations (UN), calling on the United States to demonstrate greater leadership in light of the latest developments in Syria, and urging the Administration to formally request that the UN Security Council adopt a resolution to impose a no-fly zone over the country to help end the violence. (Please find attached a copy of the letter.) May 8, 2013 The Honorable Barack H. Obama President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 The Honorable Susan E. Rice Ambassador United States Mission to the United Nations 799 United Nations Plaza New York, NY 10017 Dear Mr. President and Ambassador Rice: I write to express my grave concern regarding the Administration’s recent affirmation that President Bashar al-Assad’s regime has used chemical weapons in Syria, specifically the nerve agent sarin. As the Administration has clearly stated to the international community, the use of chemical weapons in Syria represents a “red line” for the United States. I share with you your belief that any use of such weapons would very likely have originated with the Assad regime, and am deeply troubled by its “demonstrated willingness to escalate its horrific use of violence against the Syrian people.” The use of chemical weapons not only threatens their safety, but the stability of the region as a whole, and cannot be ignored. Therefore, I urge the Administration to formally request that the United Nations (UN) Security Council adopt a resolution to impose a no-fly zone over Syria. As you well know, the ongoing conflict in Syria has created a regional humanitarian crisis. Since the unrest began in March 2011, it is estimated that more than 70,000 Syrians have been killed. Furthermore, over 1.4 million refugees – three-quarters of whom are women and children – have fled the country to seek safe haven in Lebanon, Jordan, Turkey, Iraq, and Egypt. They have suffered incredible loss, witnessed untold atrocities, and experienced permanent trauma. In addition, the UN reports that as many as 4.25 million Syrians are internally displaced, caught in the middle of the struggle between opposition forces and those loyal to President Assad. At a time when roughly one in three Syrians (6.8 million) is in need of urgent assistance, insufficient funding threatens the ability of the UN to adequately address the needs of refugees, and host nations such as Jordan and Turkey are quickly reaching the limits of their resources. While I commend the United States’ recent pledge to double its non-lethal aid for opposition forces in Syria to $250 million, and its ongoing commitment to provide humanitarian assistance, President Assad remains in power and the use of chemical weapons – whether by the Assad regime or others – signifies a heinous turn of events that warrants a firm response from the international community. The latest U.S. intelligence community assessments of the use of chemical weapons in Syria top the list of brutal tactics adopted by government forces. In many areas, including Aleppo, Homs, Dara’a, Azaz, and around Damascus, the Assad regime has used its air force, as well as Scud missile strikes and indiscriminate shelling, to decimate entire population centers as part of a systematic effort to crush the rebellion and terrorize its own people. Human rights groups report that fighter jets and helicopters have targeted hospitals, bakeries, and residential buildings, killing more than 4,300 civilians, including women and children. The Assad regime’s air superiority has allowed it to push back rebel advances and hamper their ability to maintain effective control over captured territory. Although George Sabra has been recently named interim leader of the Syrian National Coalition, he and others opposed to the Assad regime have only had limited access to rebel-controlled areas due to the constant aerial bombardment. Imposing a no-fly zone over Syria would help provide opposition forces with the cover necessary to establish governance in strategically important parts of the country and protect civilians. While the United States continues to seek “credible and corroborated facts” regarding the use of chemical weapons, it can take steps to help put an end to the violence and bring about the political transition necessary for a democratic Syria. Enforcing a no-fly zone would send a strong message to the Assad regime and world that the ongoing escalation of violence in Syria is unacceptable. Mr. President and Ambassador Rice, the time to act is now. For over two years, President Assad has resisted calls to step down and the situation in Syria continues to deteriorate. With each passing day, the violence grows more sectarian, militarized, and radicalized at the cost of innocent Syrian lives. The reported use of chemical weapons in Syria is a sign that the conflict has reached a new, deadlier level, and the international community has a responsibility to respond. It is my sincere hope that the Assad regime will cooperate with UN investigators, and that a peaceful resolution can be found. However, the United States must demonstrate greater leadership in light of the latest developments in Syria. As you carefully consider the options facing our nation and allies, I encourage you to support imposing a no-fly zone. Thank you for your consideration of this urgent matter. I respectfully ask to be kept informed as the Administration evaluates possible courses of action in Syria, and look forward to your response. Sincerely, /s/ Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.07.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee Hastings (D-FL) issued the following statement in recognition of National Teacher Day and Teacher Appreciation Week: “We owe a debt of gratitude to teachers all across this nation, who play a critical role of ensuring that students are receiving a quality education. “I want to commend all educators in my Congressional district, that I am honored to represent, for their hard work and dedication to this profession. “By investing in our children’s future, we are investing in the future of our nation. Teachers are the foundation of that investment. They inspire our youth, and provide the skills they need to succeed in life. “I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress, as well as teachers, students, parents, and school administrators, so that together, we can preserve and protect our nation’s educational system.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.03.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in recognition of 8th Annual Jewish American Heritage Month: “I am proud to recognize the 8th Annual Jewish American Heritage Month. For 350 years, Jewish Americans have played a crucial role in shaping our nation, helping to finance and fight in the American Revolutionary War, leading the charge for civil rights, and inspiring many of the progressive movements that have improved the lives of all Americans. “Jewish Americans have helped shape the course of our nation since its inception – Americans like Francis Salvador, the first Jew to be elected to a Colonial General Assembly, and the first American Jew to be killed in the American Revolutionary War. Through the years, Jewish Americans such as Arthur Miller have inspired us. Great intellects like Albert Einstein pioneered knowledge and exploration. Today, Jewish Americans like Justice Ruth Bader Ginsberg continue to break barriers and shape the world around them. “This year’s theme for Jewish American Heritage Month is ‘Jews in Entertainment,’ and allows us to pay tribute to the entertainers who have touched the lives of Americans throughout generations. Irving Berlin, the writer of “God Bless America,” is considered to be one of the greatest songwriters in American history, and composers and songwriters Leonard Bernstein, George Gershwin, Bob Dylan, and Paul Simon have touched millions with their music. “As we pay homage to the legacies of the Jewish Americans who have helped make our nation and world what it is today, we must also take time to reflect on the state of civil rights in America. Anti-Semitism and racism remain prevalent forces in our world, and we must stay ever-vigilant in combating hate with compassion, and bigotry with acceptance. “I am proud of the work of the Jewish community in and around my Congressional district, and I applaud the efforts of Jewish communities across our great nation. This month, let us reflect on how far we have come, and renew our efforts to create a more tolerant America, free of prejudice, for future generations.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.02.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) issued the following statement in recognition of National Foster Care Month: “I am honored to recognize National Foster Care Month, which provides an opportunity to raise awareness for the hundreds of thousands of children and youth who are in our nation’s foster care system. Each one of these individuals are part of a network of dedicated professionals, foster parents, and advocates who work 365 days a year, and for that they must be commended. Furthermore, I believe that it is imperative we focus on the day-to-day successes of these children and their allies. “As a member of the Congressional Caucus on Foster Youth, I am distinctly aware of the issues facing our child welfare system. Currently, there are over 400,000 children in our nation's foster care system, many of whom have serious emotional or medical problems. On average, these children wait three years for permanent families, with many aging out of foster care without the love and support from family. In March 2012, I was proud to host a listening tour through Broward and Miami-Dade counties to bring greater attention to the efforts of local communities striving to improve our foster care system. “Investing in our children's future is an investment in the future of our nation, and that is why I remain committed to working with my colleagues in Congress to move this country forward on issues critical to their success.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.29.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in recognition of the Anti-Defamation League’s (ADL) centennial celebration. The ADL is the nation’s premier human rights organization, founded in 1913 to stop the defamation of the Jewish people and to advocate for the fair treatment of all Americans. “One hundred years ago, the Anti-Defamation League was founded in a small law office in Chicago. With two desks and a $200 budget, the ADL ran headfirst into the fires of hatred raging in our nation. Over the last century, the ADL has stood up to the Klu Klux Klan, opposed Neo-Nazi hate-groups, and aided in the creation of the Hate Crimes Prevention Act. With dedication to the principals set-forth at the inception of the League, the ADL has risen to become our nation’s premier organization in advocating for human and civil rights not only for Jews, but for all who call America home. “The ADL is a champion of our country’s highest ideals - a steadfast proponent of equality and justice for all Americans regardless of race, sex or creed. It is a true privilege to work hand in hand with the ADL in the pursuit of a more perfect nation, free from violence and hatred. Today, we reaffirm our commitment to eliminating discrimination in our country.” “In the past month, we marked National Holocaust Remembrance Day, paying tribute to the 6 million Jews 11 million people who lost their lives at the hands of the Nazi regime. We paid tribute to the vision of Dr. Martin Luther King and the sacrifices made in the name of freedom and equality. We honored the victims of the Boston Marathon bombings, a haunting reminder of how much further we have to go in eliminating violence and hatred from our world. We must carry in our hearts the resolve to strive for a world without hatred and without violence - where all people, regardless of race, religion, or creed - may live together free from the burdens of persecution and hatred.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as a Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.22.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D- Miramar) issued the following statement in recognition of Earth Day. "Over 20 million Americans came together to celebrate the first Earth Day 43 years ago today. Thanks to the efforts of Senator Gaylord Nelson of Wisconsin, who worked to organize the first Earth Day in 1970, the environment is put back on the forefront of our national agenda every year on April 22nd. "After the first Earth Day, Congress passed historical new measures providing for environmental protection, such as the Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, and the Endangered Species Act. On Earth Day, we not only celebrate what we have done to protect our world, but also reflect on what must still be done to protect it for future generations. Our resources are precious and irreplaceable, and as inhabitants of this planet, we must ensure the health of our environment for our children and all generations to come. "This week, we also celebrate National Parks week. Our nation's national parks preserve the grandeur of the American landscape, with more than 400 national parks, monuments, and protected lands spanning almost 85 million acres of land. I am proud to represent Florida's 20th Congressional district, home to the Everglades, the largest subtropical wilderness in the United States and a World Heritage Site, and the Arthur R. Marshall Loxahatchee National Wildlife Refuge. "Today, there are many threats to our nation's parks and across our planet. Climate change poses a threat to our world, but has gone largely unaddressed. According to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the last decade was the warmest on record, with longer and hotter heat waves, and stronger and more frequent storms. There is undisputed evidence that our climate is changing, and it is changing because of human activity. Now, before it's too late, we must recommit ourselves to the fight for a cleaner, greener, and more sustainable future." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.20.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the third anniversary of the BP oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico: “Three years ago the Deepwater Horizon oil rig exploded in the Gulf of Mexico, killing 11 people and injuring 17. Two hundred million gallons of crude oil flooded into the Gulf for 87 days, the largest offshore oil spill in U.S. history. The spill severely damaged the environment, destroying the way of life for thousands of Americans. Over 8,000 animals were reported dead within 6 months after the spill, and our ecosystem is still suffering from the long-term consequences of oil remnants in the ocean. “While the magnitude of the Deepwater Horizon disaster is unparalleled in our country, oil spills and environmental contamination from the mining of fossil fuels are not anomalies. Between 2008 and 2012, U.S. pipelines spilled more than 3.1 million gallons of hazardous liquids per year. In 2010, 819,000 gallons of tar sands oil spilled from a pipeline after it ruptured in Michigan. Just last month, we saw another spill when the Exxon Mobil Pegasus Tar Sands pipeline in Arkansas leaked almost 300,000 gallons of crude oil. The combination of cutting costs with limited oversight and understaffed inspectors has created systemic problems that continue to plague the industry. “Another, much larger, tar sands pipeline now also threatens our environment. The Keystone Pipeline runs thousands of miles long and is being considered by Congress for expansion. Knowing the detrimental harm that these pipelines can potentially cause, it is imperative that we end our dependence on fossil fuels. “We must move forward with 21st century resources and develop a clean, renewable energy plan. As our coasts continue to recover from the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, it is time to reject the dirty oil of the past and invest in green technology for a cleaner future.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.19.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) issued the following statement in support of the National Day of Silence, a day of action organized to bring attention to the bullying of lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) students: “Hundreds of thousands of students in schools and campuses across the country will take a symbolic vow of silence today to bring attention to the harassment of their classmates in the LGBT community. With their silence, they give a voice to those who are bullied and singled out because of their sexual identity, and show their peers in the LGBT community that they are not alone when confronting bullying and discrimination. “Nine out of ten LGBT students experience harassment at their school. No person should ever feel silenced because of fear of discrimination. We have the obligation to make our nation’s schools safe and welcoming places for all students - regardless of race, sex, or sexual orientation. As students across the country take day-long vows of silence, we must be sure to raise our voices higher for all who would be silenced by words of hate and acts of discrimination. “Every day, we take one step closer to a more inclusive society, free of prejudice and hatred. Yet too often, bullying and harassment goes unaddressed and ends in tragedy. Numerous LGTB teens attempt or commit suicide every year because of bullying. This form of intimidation is a challenge that affects the lives of our nation’s youth and their families. Whether verbal or physical, in person or online, this behavior is completely unacceptable and should not be tolerated in our society. “I am committed to working with our country’s youth, parents, educators, and communities to make our schools a safe and welcoming place for all. The diversity of our nation is what makes us strong, and I look forward to the day when all people are accepted for who they are.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.18.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act (CISPA). The House voted in favor of the legislation 288 to 127. “CISPA is a bipartisan bill that aims to safeguard our nation’s computer networks and critical infrastructure by allowing for two-way cyber threat information-sharing on an entirely voluntary basis. Cyber attacks and cyber espionage have supplanted terrorism as the top security threat facing the United States, and in recent months, media reports have highlighted cyber attacks on several major U.S. companies, including Facebook, Google, The New York Times, Bank of America and Visa. Furthermore, government networks such as those of the Central Intelligence Agency and U.S. Senate have also been targeted by hackers. “Our economy, power grids, and defenses are increasingly reliant on computers and network integration. These networks power our homes, provide our clean water, protect our bank accounts, defend our intellectual property, and guard our national security information. In addition to intellectual property and national security intelligence, personal finance, health care, and other private records are prime targets for attackers to steal. “Cyber attacks present a very real and dangerous threat to the United States as threats evolve at the speed of technology. CISPA will help the private sector protect against cyber attacks by providing companies with the latest cyber threat information from the Intelligence Community, which has timely, classified information about destructive malware. This legislation requires the government to eliminate any personal information it receives that is not necessary to understand the cyber threat. “Allowing for the appropriate sharing of cyber threat information between the government and private sector is key to protecting our nation from those who would do us harm. CISPA balances the critical need to strengthen our cyber defenses while protecting Americans’ individual privacy.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.10.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on President Obama’s FY 2014 budget proposal: “The President’s budget demonstrates that we can continue to reduce the national debt, while simultaneously making smart investments in our nation’s future. I welcome proposals to increase funding for badly needed infrastructure improvement, job training and education programs. However, in an effort to appease Republicans, this budget makes reckless concessions that will hurt middle class families and have a negative impact on seniors throughout the country. “The proposed cuts to Social Security benefits would be detrimental to the millions of older Americans, children, widows, veterans, and individuals with disabilities who rely on them. In particular, I am concerned that the implementation of a chained Consumer Price Index (CPI) would significantly reduce Social Security payments to beneficiaries over the next 10 years. “Furthermore, reductions in vital funding for Everglades restoration not only threaten efforts to preserve Florida’s ecosystem, but will also affect a variety of industries, including agriculture, construction, manufacturing, trade, and tourism. “Now that the House and Senate have passed their budgets, it is time for Speaker Boehner to act. I urge him to appoint conferees in order to find fair and balanced solutions to the many challenges facing our nation.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.10.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in recognition of the 1st Annual National Youth HIV & AIDS Awareness Day: “The 1st Annual National Youth HIV & AIDS Awareness Day is a tremendous opportunity to bring our nation’s young people into the discussion about HIV/AIDS and make them part of the solution. While it is a sad truth that today’s young people are the first generation to not know a world without HIV/AIDS, we have the knowledge and tools to reverse the epidemic. I would like to take this opportunity to commend Advocates for Youth and the 11 other founding partners of National Youth HIV & AIDS Awareness Day for their ongoing work to address the needs of young people impacted by the disease. “HIV/AIDS is an issue of great concern facing our young people today. Almost 40 percent of new HIV infections in the United States are among individuals between the ages of 13 and 29, with a disproportionately higher risk for young men who have sex with men (MSM) and minorities. Furthermore, over 76,400 young people are currently living with HIV nationwide, and 1,000 more are newly infected each month. “Raising public awareness and educating our communities about the effects of HIV/AIDS on young people represent a significant first step in preventing the spread of the virus. The second step is providing routine HIV screening so that they can be aware of their status and take steps to protect their health. Finally, we must ensure access to HIV treatment, care, and support services for all individuals who need them. “Throughout my tenure in Congress, I have supported, and will continue to support, HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment, and research efforts. In addition, I also recognize the importance of age-appropriate comprehensive sex education that empowers young people to make responsible decisions and prevent the transmission of sexually transmitted infections (STIs) like HIV. Now more than ever, we must recommit ourselves to creating an AIDS-free generation.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as a Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.09.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in recognition of Equal Pay Day: “When President John F. Kennedy signed the Equal Pay Act in 1963, women earned 59 cents on the dollar compared to men. Fifty years later, women earn between 77 and 80 cents on the dollar. For African American and Latina women, the gap is bigger. National Equal Pay Day marks how far into the current year the average woman must work to earn what the average man made in the previous year, and although we have made significant strides in closing the gender-gap in earnings, we still have a long way to go. “Sixty-five million women are part of the workforce in this country, holding approximately half of the jobs available, but earning at least 20 percent less than their male counterparts. Households across America depend on the wages earned by women to put food on the table and pay the bills. However, because of earning disparities, women make at least $380,000 less than men over their careers. Closing the wage-gap would to strengthen the middle class and make it easier for families to get by. “I have proudly supported legislation that narrows the earnings-gap and promotes equal pay regardless of gender. The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009 eased the restrictions on filing equal-pay lawsuits regarding gender-based discrimination, and the Paycheck Fairness Act will prevent gender-based wage discrimination through stronger laws and enhanced enforcement. Together, we must commit to following through on ensuring that all Americans earn equal pay for equal work as well as a fair and livable wage regardless of gender.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.08.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) joined with others around the world in honoring the victims of the Holocaust and recognizing Holocaust Remembrance Day and the Days of Remembrance: “Between 1940 and 1945, two out of every three Jews in Europe perished in ghettos, mass shootings, forced labor camps, and extermination camps during the Holocaust. Nazi Germany carried out the systematic persecution, dehumanization, and execution of more than six million Jews throughout Europe, including more than one million children. By the end of WWII, close to eleven million people were murdered by the Nazi regime, including Jews, Roma, homosexuals, prisoners of war, political dissidents, Jehovah’s Witnesses, and individuals with disabilities. “As the Nazi movement swept through Europe 75 years ago, stripping away civil rights and inciting violence, very few nations took action. Countries around the world, including the United States, turned away refugees desperate to flee. In hindsight, the warning signs were undeniable, yet there was little action taken to intervene. “Today, we reaffirm our obligation to remember this tragic moment of human history, honor the victims and survivors, and dedicate ourselves to preventing atrocities such as genocide from ever happening again. The United States Congress established the Days of Remembrance to honor the lives of those who suffered and died during the Holocaust. The theme for this year is ‘Never Again: Heeding the Warning Signs.’ “This week, and in the weeks, months, and years to come, we must commit ourselves to preserving human rights and dignity across the globe. Every year, there are fewer survivors of the Holocaust left to tell their stories and share their experiences. These men and women witnessed some of the very worst moments in human history. It is now up to us to turn towards our own communities to demonstrate the very best of human nature. Together, as we keep alive the memories of those who perished and pay tribute to the lives of those who survived, we must also strive to honor our past by looking towards our future, working to embody the value of ‘Tikkun Olam’ – repairing the world.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.28.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) issued the following statement on the National Day to Demand Action: “Gun violence is a scourge on our community. Our nation’s policies on guns are no longer driven by common sense and reason, but instead by fierce ideologues. Over 3,000 Americans have died as a result of gun violence since the tragic shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown. How many more have to die before we do something about it? “The idea that the Second Amendment guarantees unlimited and unfettered access to all guns, all of the time is ludicrous. “The assault weapons used in Newtown and Aurora exist outside of traditional gun ownership. These weapons were designed solely for the purpose of killing as many people as possible as quickly as possible. They should only be in the hands of or sold to no one other than military and police officials. “While there is no single cause or easy solution, we need to find common sense measures that can help to prevent as well as reduce the number of incidents and the severity of any attack. “We can’t do everything to stop gun violence. But, we have a moral responsibility to act, and we must do it now!” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.26.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) issued the following statement as the Supreme Court hears oral arguments over the next two days in the case of Hollingsworth v. Perry, which challenges California’s Proposition 8, and the case of United States v. Windsor, which challenges the federal Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA): “The fundamental rights of lesbian and gay Americans have been denied for far too long in this country. I am encouraged that the Supreme Court of the United States will hear oral arguments challenging the constitutionality of two measures that continue to deny equal rights to tens of thousands of committed same-sex couples. Proposition 8 and DOMA serve only to codify discrimination in our laws and perpetuate the prejudiced notion that lesbians and gays are to be treated differently than everyone else. The fact of the matter is that they prevent same-sex couples from having the same critical rights, benefits, and protections that heterosexual couples receive through marriage. “Rightfully, the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals struck down Proposition 8 as unconstitutional in 2012, upholding a 2010 District Court ruling in the Northern District of California. In addition, four federal district courts and two appeals courts have ruled against DOMA, which the U.S. Department of Justice has ceased to defend in court since 2011. Recent polls also show that a majority of Americans and the vast majority of young people support same-sex marriage. “It is clear that both Proposition 8 and DOMA lack constitutional authority and must be overturned. At this momentous time in our nation’s history, I am hopeful that the Supreme Court will ultimately recognize the equal rights of same-sex couples. Likewise, I will continue working tirelessly with my colleagues in Congress to achieve nothing less than full equality for the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) community. It is simply the right thing to do.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.22.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in recognition of the 8th Annual Florida AIDS Walk and Music Festival, which will take place on March 24th at Fort Lauderdale Beach. Each year, AIDS Healthcare Foundation (AHF) organizes the 5K walk in order to raise awareness and funds to help support services for the estimated 145,000 Floridians living with HIV/AIDS: "It is with great honor and pride that I recognize AHF and its partners for organizing the Florida AIDS Walk. It is truly an excellent opportunity to bring the South Florida community together and promote an open, honest dialogue about HIV/AIDS. As a society, we must continue to address stigma surrounding HIV/AIDS and raise awareness about the disease. "HIV/AIDS continues to have a profound impact on the State of Florida, which leads the country in new HIV cases as well as ranks second and third for new and existing AIDS cases, respectively. I remain committed to working with my colleagues in Congress to improve the lives of individuals living with HIV/AIDS, and to supporting research, prevention, and treatment efforts to create an AIDS-free generation. Knowing one's status through regular testing and having access to antiretroviral drugs remain among our most powerful tools in preventing the spread of HIV. "AHF has done an incredible job expanding access to lifesaving HIV treatment and services over the past 25 years. In particular, I am pleased that the 2013 Florida AIDS Walk will directly benefit so many great community organizations in Florida, including Broward House, Latinos Salud, The League Against AIDS, Inc., Minority Development and Empowerment, Inc., The Pride Center at Equality Park, Sunshine Social Services, Inc., and The Village South/Westcare. Together, they provide invaluable services to many of my constituents and other Florida residents impacted by HIV/AIDS. "There is no doubt in my mind that this year's Florida AIDS Walk and Music Festival will be bigger and better than the last. Once again, I commend AHF and its partners, as well as each and every single volunteer, donor, and participant, for making the Florida AIDS Walk a success year after year." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.21.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement regarding his vote in opposition to Senate Amendment to H.R. 933, known as the continuing resolution, that passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 318-109: "I voted against this continuing resolution because it locks in the sequester, which everybody in this joint knows will cause the loss of American jobs. "The Congressional Budget Office has already said that this level of funding is detrimental to our economy, will cost Americans jobs, and could possibly trigger a recession. If this Congress would actually be about the business of addressing the country's real needs like repairing our ports, waterways, bridges, and highways, then we would actually be about the business of creating jobs. But this continuing resolution is only going to do more harm to our economy. "We should be doing all that we can to help struggling Americans get back on their feet. Instead of chasing strawman deficits, let's get our economic house in order. Let's get to realistic spending levels that will help our country get back on track." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.20.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in support of the National Day of Protest, during which federal employees will hold 100 rallies nationwide against sequestration cuts. The mass demonstration is organized by the American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE), in cooperation with the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL–CIO), Americans for Tax Fairness, and the Alliance for Retired Americans: "I stand with federal employees all across the country today in calling for the repeal of the across-the-board sequestration cuts and a balanced compromise to our budgetary problems. It is unfortunate that Congress' inability to find a reasonable alternative to these cuts has resulted in federal employees facing continued bullying from Republicans in the name of fiscal responsibility. "As a result of the automatic cuts that took effect on March 1st, our government is required to arbitrarily cut $85 billion in spending this year. Sequestration means furloughs. It means closed offices. It means that the government will no longer be able to provide the level of services that millions of Americans rely on every single day. "After two years of pay freezes for federal employees and a new proposal to freeze pay for an additional year, sequestration will place even more burden on federal workers. Repeated attempts to solve our budgetary problems on the backs of middle class and working poor Americans are misguided and downright unfair. Federal employees are teachers, they are law enforcement officers, they are janitors, and they are public health workers. They are the people we all rely on to keep our country moving. "Sequestration was designed to be a bad idea from the very beginning. Any policy that results in the loss of 750,000 jobs, as the sequester is expected to do, is not a policy focused on job-creation: it's a policy focused on job-destruction." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.15.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Congressman Albio Sires (D-NJ) introduced a resolution honoring Cuban blogger and activist Yoani Sánchez, who is currently visiting the United States for the first time as part of an 80-day international tour. The resolution recognizes her ongoing efforts to challenge political, economic, and social oppression through the use of the internet. Since 2007, her blog – "Generation Y" – about life under the Castro regime has found an audience with half a million people around the world. (Please find attached a copy of the resolution). "Yoani Sánchez has become a voice for millions of Cubans who reject the oppression of the Castro regime," said Hastings. "With the help and support of like-minded individuals, she has uploaded weekly blog posts, tweets, and Facebook updates that provide us with an unfiltered glimpse into the realities of day-to-day life in Cuba. "Yoani has demonstrated profound courage in the face of adversity, and is a leading example of how ordinary citizens can empower themselves through technology and make a difference in the 21st century. I am pleased to introduce this resolution along with my colleague, Congressman Albio Sires, and hope that her first visit to the United States brings us closer to the day when all Cubans will be able to express themselves freely without fear of reprisal," added Hastings. "I join my colleague, Congressman Alcee Hastings, in honoring the strength, courage and activism for freedom of Cuban blogger, Yoani Sanchez. I laud her determination to challenge the Cuban regime and showcase to the world the cruelty and repression imposed on the Cuban people by the dictatorship of the Castro brothers," said Sires. "Her voice allows the millions of silenced Cuban people to have their pleas for freedom be heard around the world. I will continue to press for the end of Cuba's repressive regime and its violations of human rights and freedoms of expression in hopes that the days of fear and terror end for the Cuban people," further added Sires. ### PDF: Reps._Alcee_L._Hastings_and_Albio_Sires_-_Resolution_in_Honor_of_Yoani_Sanchez_-_03.15.2013.pdf
02.28.2013	Today, Congressmen Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Co-Chairmen of the Congressional Everglades Caucus, introduced the bi-partisan Everglades for the Next Generation Act. The legislation authorizes sorely needed Central Everglades Restoration Plan (CERP) projects that are shovel-ready, but have been delayed by Congressional inaction. It also provides the Army Corps of Engineers with the flexibility it needs to avoid Congressional bottlenecking in the future. (Please find below a copy of the bill). "Congressional inaction has been a roadblock for far too long despite bi-partisan support for restoration," said Hastings. "An awkward state of limbo is not the future Congress had in mind for the Everglades when it passed CERP, and it is not the future that the American people deserve." "I am committed to getting Everglades restoration back on track, and this Act does just that. By authorizing the next suite of projects, we are helping strengthen Florida's ecosystem and economy. It is our responsibility to protect and restore the Everglades, and I am proud to work with Congressman Hastings and my other colleagues to ensure this happens," said Diaz-Balart. ### PDF: Everglades_for_the_Next_Generation_Act.pdf
02.27.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) issued the following statement as the Supreme Court hears oral arguments in the case of Shelby County v. Holder, which challenges the constitutionality of Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act of 1965: "For decades, the Voting Rights Act has stood as an essential safeguard against racial discrimination in our political system. "Though we have undoubtedly made progress in the last 47 years, I am sad to say that discrimination still exists. Eliminating Section 5 would effectively hamper our ability to protect the voting rights of minorities at a time when those rights are currently under assault. For example, H.B. 1355, signed into law last May by Florida Governor Rick Scott, created barriers to limit access to the polls for minorities, seniors and college students. Several other states have followed suit, enacting similar laws imposing strict limits on voter registration and requiring government-issued photo identification at polling sites. "The continued existence of discrimination demonstrates the essential role Section 5 still plays in protecting the rights of minorities. We cannot allow the clock to be turned back on decades of progress. "We must continue to fight discrimination against minority voters. I remain hopeful that the Supreme Court will recognize the continued importance of the Voting Rights Act and will uphold Section 5." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.27.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) issued the following statement on the March 1, 2013 sequester: "It is astounding what Republicans in Congress are doing. They have given a whole new meaning to the term 'March Madness.' Once again, they are leading this nation to the brink of a manufactured crisis. On Friday, we will see across-the-board spending cuts that will harm the economy and undermine job creation. But House Republicans are refusing to act, and the American people will be left to pay the price. With only three days to go, Congress must take action now to avert the sequester, protect middle class and working poor Americans, and get back to work." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.27.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) issued the following statement regarding his visit last week to Jerusalem, Israel, where he held meetings with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and President Shimon Peres, as well as with the Institute for Intelligence and Special Operations (Mossad), Palestinian Prime Minister Salam Fayyad, and other officials. "This was my fifteenth trip to Israel as a Member of Congress. I truly appreciate the warmth and hospitality of the Israeli people. I believe that this was a key opportunity to meet with senior Israeli and Palestinian leaders on a wide range of issues concerning political developments in Israel, regional security in the Middle East, and the U.S.-Israeli partnership. "I am deeply grateful for the candid conversations we had regarding the results of the January 22, 2013 parliamentary election, including Prime Minister Netanyahu's continued efforts to form a coalition government. Furthermore, we discussed the current state of relations between the Israelis and Palestinians, as well as the ongoing peace process. "Prime Minister Netanyahu, President Peres, and I also touched upon a significant concern to Israel and the United States alike: challenges to the right of Israel to defend itself and protect its people. From Hamas and Hezbollah to political instability in the Middle East to Iran's nuclear aspirations, one thing remains clear. The United States must continue to support Israel's right to self-defense, increase its engagement in the region, and work towards finding a fair solution that enables both Israelis and Palestinians to live in peace, security, and prosperity. "We have a responsibility to help protect freedom and democracy around the world, and the future integrity of Israel and the region as a whole depends on our willingness to uphold our shared values. As Co-Chair of the Democratic Israel Working Group, I remain committed to working with my colleagues in Congress to further strengthen our special relationship with Israel." Hastings was part of a Congressional delegation led by Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD). Also joining him were Senator Bernie Sanders (D-VT), Congressman Mike McIntyre (D-NC), Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-AL), and Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Market Access and Compliance at the U.S. Department of Commerce, Michael C. Camuñez. Additionally, the delegation traveled to Turkey, where they held meetings in Ankara with Turkish President Abdullah Gül and Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan. They also traveled to the Turkish-Syrian border, visiting North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Patriot missile batteries with officials from the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), as well as the Kilis Refugee Camp. In Istanbul, they met with members of the Syrian opposition, Joint American Business Forum of Turkey, and Students from Bahçesehir University. Lastly, the delegation traveled to Vienna, Austria to attend the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe Parliamentary Assembly's (OSCE PA) 12th Winter Meeting. Over 200 parliamentarians gathered in Vienna for the Winter Meeting, which featured a special debate on the situation in Syria, the Sahel, and North Africa. Hastings, a President Emeritus of the OSCE PA and the current Special Representative on Mediterranean Affairs, opened the debate by appealing to parliamentarians to examine their consciences when dealing with the crisis in Syria. "I ask each of you, as a father and as a mother," said Hastings, referring to children being killed in Syria, "how would you feel if the world stood by and did very little" in response to such a tragedy in their own countries. During the debate that he moderated, entitled "How OSCE countries should respond to crises in Syria, the Sahel, and North Africa," Hastings lamented that he has seen confusion on how to respond to the crisis. He urged members of the OSCE PA to look out for the common good and set aside national rivalries in coming to a consensus on an international response. Specifically, he called for arms transfers to Syria to be halted and for Bashar al-Assad to be transferred to the International Criminal Court in The Hague to stand trial for war crimes. Please click here to view a video clip of Congressman Hastings as he opens the special debate on Syria at the OSCE PA's 12th Winter Meeting in Vienna, Austria. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.25.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) issued the following statement regarding the proposed merger of American Airlines and U.S. Airways: "The proposed merger of American Airlines and U.S. Airways promises to provide more choices and increased services to customers while directly and indirectly supporting thousands of Florida jobs. In particular, I am pleased that both sides have expressed a commitment to ensuring greater long-term opportunities for the employees of the combined airline. As the merger approval process begins, I look forward to the new American Airlines being able to realize the tremendous possibilities that it represents for my Congressional district and the South Florida community as a whole." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.14.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement after being honored by the First Focus Campaign for Children with the "2012 Champion of Children" Award: "I am deeply honored to receive the First Focus Campaign for Children's '2012 Champion of Children' Award. In Congress, I have continued to advocate for legislation to protect the health, safety, and well-being of our nation's most vulnerable and important resource – our children. "As a member of the Congressional Caucus on Foster Youth, I am distinctly aware of the issues facing our child welfare system. Currently, there are over 400,000 children in our nation's foster care system, many of whom have serious emotional or medical problems. On average, these children wait three years for permanent families, with many aging out of foster care without the love and support from family. Last March, I was proud to host a listening tour through Broward and Miami-Dade counties to bring greater attention to the efforts of local communities striving to improve our foster care system. "Furthermore, I was proud to support The Uninterrupted Scholars Act, or the A Plus Act, legislation that removes legal hurdles for child welfare agencies attempting to access student records while respecting their right to privacy. This commonsense legislation gives social workers more opportunities to assist struggling foster children and improve academic success. "Ensuring the health of our children is of fundamental importance to our nation, which is why I also supported the Affordable Care Act – legislation which prohibits health care insurers from discriminating against children with pre-existing conditions and extends the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP). "Investing in our children's future is an investment in the future of our nation, and that is why I remain committed to working with my colleagues in Congress to move this country forward on issues critical to their success." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.12.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in response to President Obama's State of the Union address: "Our economy is moving in the right direction. We have seen over 30 months of consecutive job growth, the housing market and commercial real estate pick up, and the stock market reach record highs. "At the heart of our approach to sustain this growth will be investing in the Middle Class and helping the working poor. We must move beyond politics and work with the Obama administration to avoid a dangerous backslide in our nation's economic recovery: the looming fiscal deadlines. I stand behind President Obama's plan on how to both balance the budget in a responsible way, as well as make the investments necessary to create the jobs of the future and compete in the global economy. "First of all, I agree that the challenges we face must be addressed in a balanced way – we simply cannot cut our way out of debt and into prosperity. We must first reform our tax code to ensure that big corporations and the wealthiest few are paying their fair share. Furthermore, we must also reevaluate our spending priorities, putting an end to wasteful programs while continuing to strengthen and improve vital ones such as Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid. "We must also continue to invest in clean, sustainable energy to ensure our nation's energy independence and help address climate change. Today, we import less foreign oil than any time in the last 20 years, and by investing in clean energy we will support and create American jobs, reduce our reliance on foreign oil, and lower the cost of energy for families and businesses. "Furthermore, affordable education for all must be a top priority. We succeed and grow as a nation when everyone has a fair shot and plays by the same rules. Education has never been more important in expanding opportunity for every American. This is why we must work hard to make sure that we invest in our schools and set higher standards, from Head Start programs to higher education and beyond. We must also provide individuals with the skills and training opportunities necessary to be successful members of our workforce, particularly in the areas of science, technology, engineering, math, and manufacturing. "Lastly, I support the President in his determination to advance the rights of all Americans. Issues such as immigration, gun control, and election reform must be addressed this Congress. We cannot sit idly by and allow the rights of individuals to be denied by discriminatory laws. Success in these endeavors requires both leadership and cooperation across the aisle." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.07.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) issued the following statement in recognition of the 13th Annual National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day: "National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day is a continuing reminder of the impact that this disease has had on the African American community. With each passing year, we aim to educate more individuals about HIV/AIDS, get more individuals tested for HIV, and increase access to treatment to save more lives. "Due to various health and socioeconomic disparities, African Americans remain more likely to become infected with HIV, be living with AIDS, and face HIV-related deaths than any other racial group. In particular, African American youth, women, and men who have sex with men (MSM) are disproportionately affected. African American teenagers, ages 13-19, represent only 15 percent of U.S. teenagers, however, they account for 68 percent of new AIDS cases reported among teens. Furthermore, over two-thirds of women who become infected with HIV are African American. "As a whole, approximately one in five individuals living with HIV in the United States is unaware of their infection. It is time that we break the cycle of infection and death. We must all take responsibility for our health and know our status. And as a community, we must look out for each other and make sure that individuals have the knowledge, resources, and support they need to stay healthy. "In the 113th Congress, I vow to work with lawmakers, health care providers, faith leaders, and all members of the community to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS. To this end, I will continue to support the Ryan White Program, AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP), and the implementation of the National AIDS Strategy to create an AIDS-free generation. As long as there are still individuals living with this disease, the conversation about raising awareness, addressing stigma, and improving access to treatment and care must be a top priority." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.05.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) introduced the Donate for Disaster Relief Act. The bill allows taxpayers to indicate on their federal income tax returns if they wish to voluntarily donate to a disaster relief trust. (Please find attached a copy of the bill). "We need this now," said Hastings. "Superstorms like Hurricane Sandy have a devastating effect on infrastructure and lives. We need to think about how to prepare for these emergencies ahead of time, and stop waiting for the worst to happen before we do something. "The decision to donate is entirely voluntary, and will help us be better prepared for future natural disasters. As a nation, we must be proactive in being able to help those in their greatest time of need." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Rep._Alcee_L._Hastings_-_Donate_for_Disaster_Relief_Act_-_02.05.2013.pdf
02.04.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement in recognition of the 100th birthday of civil rights activist Rosa Parks: "Just two weeks after witnessing the second swearing-in of our nation's first black President, it is appropriate that we commemorate the birth of a civil rights leader that helped to make such a moment possible. Ms. Parks' brave act – refusing to give up her seat to a white person on a segregated Montgomery bus on December 1, 1955 – marked the beginning of the modern Civil Rights Movement. "Ms. Parks' efforts to overcome prejudice came at great personal cost, and her struggle stands as a reminder of how far our nation has come. It is fitting that her sacrifice will make her the first African American woman depicted in a statue on Capitol Hill this year. "Reflecting upon the march towards equal civil rights should remind us that our effort to create a more perfect Union is far from over, but I remain hopeful that the next generation of leaders will continue to build upon the work of Ms. Parks and other civil rights pioneers." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.01.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) issued the following statement in commemoration of Black History Month, which is observed each February to recognize the countless contributions of African Americans to our nation, as well as pay tribute to those who dedicated their lives to overcoming racial prejudice and achieving equal civil rights: "Today, as we celebrate the start of Black History Month, we honor those individuals of African descent who made countless sacrifices to advance the cause of freedom and equality for all. This year's theme, 'At the Crossroads of Freedom and Equality,' marks two pivotal events in the history of the African American community and our nation as a whole: the 150th anniversary of President Abraham Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation and the 50th anniversary of Dr. Martin Luther King's March on Washington. "The Emancipation Proclamation, issued by President Lincoln at the height of the Civil War in 1863, granted freedom to slaves living in the Confederate States. While slavery would not end throughout the United States until the passage of the Thirteenth Amendment in 1865, the decree did have a direct effect on the war by allowing African Americans to join the military. By the end of the war, nearly 200,000 Black soldiers and sailors served with distinction for the Union. The Proclamation stands as a turning point in our nation's history and a hallmark achievement of President Lincoln. "One hundred years later another historic leader, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., led a crowd of over 200,000 at the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom. Delivering his immortal 'I Have a Dream' speech on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial in 1963, Dr. King shared his vision for a freer, more just nation. That day is marked as a defining moment for the modern Civil Rights Movement, culminating in the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 under President Lyndon Johnson. It is fitting that these two landmark events are celebrated together. "As we reflect on the tremendous achievements of all those who struggled for racial equality and justice, we must also remember how much more there is to accomplish. New state voting laws have been designed to suppress the voting rights of African Americans and other minorities, while vast educational and economic disparities still exist, particularly as we recover from the deepest economic recession of our lifetime. It is our responsibility to continue the legacy of leadership, and unite to overcome the challenges that face our country." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.23.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) reintroduced the National Emergency Centers Establishment Act, legislation which would authorize the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to create emergency centers for temporary housing and other relief efforts in the event of a natural disaster. Please find attached a copy of the legislation. "Recent calamities like Hurricane Sandy have shown us that disaster relief is complex and chaotic," said Hastings. "Although we have improved our relief efforts, there is still more that can be done to ensure Americans are safe during an emergency and are given the best opportunity to return to their normal lives soon after such an event." This legislation would permit FEMA to institute national emergency centers on closed military bases – allowing disaster relief organizations to be able to both prepare and train for disaster response, and provide temporary shelter for those unable to remain in their homes and neighborhoods. Such sites are effective for disaster relief and management purposes because they already contain the necessary infrastructure to house, feed, and care for thousands of people at the same time. Furthermore, these sites allow for large amounts of humanitarian relief supplies to be stored. "Months after Hurricane Katrina had passed, thousands of people were still without food, shelter, water, and medical supplies," further noted Hastings. "These emergency centers offer a viable solution for individuals and families to have access to all the necessary materials for their immediate needs. "Having designated sites around the country already prepared to respond to disasters is an essential component for relief, recovery, and resiliency. I urge my colleagues to support this bill to ensure that a safe option is available for all those faced with a natural disaster." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### PDF: National_Emergency_Centers_Establishment_Act_-_01.23.2013.pdf
01.23.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee Hastings (D-Miramar) voted against H.R. 325, the "No Budget, No Pay Act," which would suspend the debt ceiling through May 18, 2013, as well as withhold salaries from Members of Congress if the House and Senate do not adopt a budget resolution by April 15, 2013. "I voted against this legislation because we don't have time to waste on silly political gimmicks that cover for right-wing radicalism. While I am pleased that some of my Republican colleagues have finally recognized the grave importance of ensuring the full faith and credit of the United States in the payment of its debt obligations, it is ridiculous to attach to this measure impractical provisions that do nothing to address our underlying national challenges. "In the first place, suspending the debt ceiling until May just keeps kicking the can down the road, creating yet another crisis point three months in the future. The Republican philosophy seems to be: Why do now what we can do later – and why do later what we can do even later? This is no way to address our fiscal challenges, and it is no way to manage the world's largest economy. "Withholding Member pay is downright silly. It is unconstitutional under the 27th Amendment, which says that Congress cannot pass a law varying Member compensation unless there has been an election before the law takes effect. In any case, this bill doesn't permanently withhold salary, it simply places the money in an escrow account to be released at the end of this congressional session. In other words, it does nothing. "But if we're going to make Member pay contingent on the House and Senate adopting a budget resolution by April 15th, then why not make Member pay contingent on other legislative goals, as well? Maybe we should dock pay for Members who fail to vote favorably on disaster relief legislation. Or maybe we should refuse to pay salaries until Congress passes an economic stimulus plan that creates jobs and grows the economy. "There is an endless series of challenges that both the House and Senate ought to be tackling to benefit struggling Americans. The problem isn't Member pay. The problem is an unyielding, reckless, and extremist bloc in the Republican Party, which insists on obstructionism at all costs, even if that means doing great harm to the American economy. You can withhold all the pay you want, but until the Republican Party can bring their right-wing under control, the 113th Congress is in for as difficult a ride as the 112th." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.23.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) announced his support as an original co-sponsor of the Voter Empowerment Act (VEA), authored by Congressman John Lewis (D-GA). The VEA is a comprehensive voting rights bill that ensures all Americans have equal access to the ballot box. The bill overhauls the voter registration system, and prohibits misleading electioneering practices that make it more difficult for Americans to vote. "I am proud to be an original cosponsor of the VEA," said Hastings. "We should be making it easier for all Americans to vote, not harder. The changes found in this bill will go a long way toward ending Republican-sponsored laws and executive decisions that make it considerably more difficult for eligible voters to both register and vote." "For example, Florida Republicans, led by Governor Rick Scott, enacted a law that made it harder for minorities, seniors and college students to cast a ballot by imposing new restrictive regulations on voter registration groups and reducing the number of early voting days. These are not minor inconveniences, but elements of a systematic attack that the VEA would help to end." House Democrats proposed the VEA in response to President Obama's call on Election Night to tackle voting problems confronted by members of the military, as well as disabled, minority, young, elderly, and low-income Americans. "Free and fair elections are the foundation of our democracy. We must fight to actively uphold and preserve our civic rights and responsibilities. We are not about to allow them to be taken away by politically motivated elected officials. The VEA will reaffirm the principle that our opportunity to vote is not something to be messed around with for political purposes." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.23.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) issued the following statement in recognition of the 2013 Anti-Bullying Summit, which takes place on January 23, 2013 at Sunrise Middle School in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. It is sponsored by the Human Rights Campaign (HRC) South Florida in partnership with the Broward County School System, Sunrise Middle School, and community organizations, including South Florida Family Pride, SunServe, Aqua Foundation for Women, and Safe Schools South Florida. "I would like to take this opportunity to commend the Human Rights Campaign South Florida and its partners for organizing this important summit, and shining a light on the issue of bullying in South Florida. I have had the privilege of working with them for many years, and truly appreciate the hard work that they do each and every single day to not only root out bullying, but achieve greater equality for all Americans. "Bullying is a pervasive challenge that continues to impact our young people, their families, and communities. Too often, instances of bullying go unheard and end in tragedy. Bullying can happen anywhere and affect everyone involved. Whether it is verbal or physical, social or cyber, bullying is completely unacceptable. "We all have a role to play in making sure that bullying stops before it starts. HRC South Florida's Anti-Bullying Summit is an excellent opportunity to educate students, parents, and faculty on recognizing the signs of bullying and developing a system of intervention. We must make it clear that bullying in any shape or form will not be tolerated. "I stand committed to working with my colleagues in Congress, as well as parents, educators, and community organizations, to help ensure that our schools are safe for all students, including lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) individuals. It is my sincere hope that, together, we will create an inclusive learning environment that celebrates the full diversity of our great nation." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.22.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in recognition of the 40th anniversary of Roe v. Wade, the 1973 landmark Supreme Court decision which made abortion safe and legal: "Roe v. Wade is critically important to America's legal history, because it set precedent by confirming that the constitutionally protected right to privacy includes every woman's right to make her own reproductive health decisions. "Unfortunately, women across this nation have continued to find that these rights are constantly being challenged. This was clearly the case with the recent Presidential election, where a great deal of emphasis was placed on attacking a woman's right to choose," said Hastings. "Protecting and expanding these rights remains a battle. I believe that the decision to continue or terminate a pregnancy is between a woman, her family and doctor, based on her values and circumstances, and should be made free from pressure and coercion. It is for this reason that I remain committed to upholding the constitutional right of women to make reproductive health decisions about their own body." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.19.2013	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) issued the following statement in commemoration of Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, which celebrates the birthday and legacy of the African-American civil rights leader, as well as coincides with the second Inauguration of President Barack Obama: "On the third Monday of every year, we honor the memory of Dr. King and remember his lifelong efforts to overcome prejudice and hatred in the United States. As President Obama takes his second oath of office, we continue to be inspired by Dr. King's example of public service and personal sacrifice. "Almost 50 years ago, Dr. King led the 1963 March on Washington, where he spoke the immortal words, 'I have a dream.' The struggle for equal rights in this country is far from over, however, we continue working towards a brighter future in which Americans are united by their shared humanity rather than divided by the color of their skin. "Martin Luther King Day reminds us of our responsibility to each other and generations yet to come. As Dr. King once wrote, 'Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.' Let us not turn a blind eye to our fellow Americans in need, and look beyond our differences to truly lift our nation up as a whole." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.18.2013	Today marks the third anniversary of the Citizens United v Federal Election Commission decision by the United States Supreme Court. This ruling allows corporations and the wealthiest Americans to spend an unlimited amount of money on independent political advertising. "Citizens United undermines the foundation of representative democracy," said Hastings. "The interests of the average American are cast aside when the loudest voices are those of the largest corporations, wealthiest CEOs, and Wall Street bankers. "This ruling allows a small group to have undue influence on our elections. Unlimited independent expenditures means that the issues and interests most important to hardworking Americans are marginalized in the bombardment of advertising from large corporations and super PACs. For example, casino magnate Sheldon Adelson and his wife propped up the campaign of Newt Gingrich through multimillion dollar contributions to the super PAC Winning our Future despite his failures at the polls. The one-percent should not be dominating campaigns to the extent of drowning out the voice of the 99 percent. "Though the 2012 elections are over, we must not forget the unique avalanche of political advertising that we experienced. It is time for reasonable campaign finance laws. Though this may be the third anniversary of this ruling, the fight for campaign spending is far from over." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.15.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) commemorated President Obama's signing of the Uninterrupted Scholars Act (S.3472). The Uninterrupted Scholars Act is bipartisan legislation that Hastings co-sponsored, which amends the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act to grant a child welfare agency direct and unencumbered access to the academic records of young people in their care, while respecting the child's right to privacy. "As a member of the Congressional Caucus on Foster Youth, I applaud the President for signing the Uninterrupted Scholars Act into law," Hastings said. "I co-sponsored the Act because it will provide critical educational support to the more than 424,000 young people in foster care today. "Foster youth and their child welfare agencies should not encounter issues accessing the student's own educational records. Specifically, restricted access to records such as transcripts and report cards makes it harder for caseworkers to ascertain what is in the best interest of the student. This widens the academic achievement gap between the child and their classmates by contributing to inappropriate school placements, enrollment delays, lost credits, and drop-outs. "Foster youth are one of the most at-risk groups of all student populations. Currently, fewer than 3 percent of young people in foster care who graduate from high school will earn a college degree by the age of 25. S.3472 will create more opportunities for academic success for students in foster care, bridging that gap between them and their peers." The Uninterrupted Scholars Act was proposed in response to a field visit to Florida by the Caucus in March, 2012. As part of a National Listening Tour, the Caucus participated in a series of site visits and roundtable discussions with service providers, local politicians, and representatives of foster youth driven advocacy groups in Florida's 20th Congressional District. "The Tour shed much needed light on the everyday challenges faced by foster youth, particularly in Broward County. I was proud to draw well-deserved attention to the members of our community who work tirelessly to give young people in foster care a voice and fight for a better child welfare system. "For many foster youth, the child welfare system is all they have. The difficulties they confront are exacerbated when that system fails them. Signing the Uninterrupted Scholars Act dismantles one of the obstacles preventing them from achieving their dreams and aspirations, which is in everyone's best interest." S.3472 was passed by the 113th Congress on January 3. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.11.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) issued the following statement on the third anniversary of the 7.0 magnitude earthquake that devastated Haiti in 2010: "On January 12, 2010, Haiti was struck by one of the largest earthquakes in its entire history, killing tens of thousands and causing immeasurable damage to its infrastructure. Within hours, the international community mobilized its resources and were on the ground to provide lifesaving aid to the Haitian people. Despite these laudable efforts, however, Haiti remains plagued by a stagnant economy, widespread poverty, and outbreaks of cholera. Furthermore, in the past year, a spring drought and two storms during hurricane season resulted in more than id="mce_marker"70 million in crop losses, endangering an additional 1.5 million Haitians. "Natural disasters are the world's cruelest actions in their disregard for human life, as they do not discriminate or have any logic to the devastation that they cause. We cannot forget all those who are still struggling in the aftermath of the earthquake, and must continue to provide aid and assistance to our Haitian neighbors. "Over the past year, I sent two letters to the Obama administration urging the President to work with the Department of Homeland Security to create a Haitian Family Reunification Parole Program that would allow Haitians with approved family based visa petitions to come to the United States while they await their visas. Approximately 112,000 Haitians with approved visa petitions are forced to languish in Haiti for years on end when they could instead be reunited with their family members in the United States, find work, and send back remittances to further aid in Haiti's recovery. "As we reflect on the third anniversary of the Haiti earthquake, let us also remember the commitment that we made together with the international community to stand by the Haitian people. Creating a Haitian Family Reunification Parole Program would represent a significant step towards putting Haiti on the path to long-term recovery. I stand ready to assist President Obama in this endeavor, and pledge to continue doing everything in my power to support efforts that help the people of Haiti not only rebuild their country, but improve their lives." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.10.2013	Today, Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), Grace Napolitano (D-CA), and Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), along with 46 additional Members of Congress, sent the following letter to Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Deputy Director for Management Jeffrey Zients. The letter urges him to maintain funding for mental health programs as he plans for the President's budget for Fiscal Year 2014. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter). January 10, 2013 Mr. Jeffrey Zients Deputy Director for Management Office of Management and Budget 725 17th Street, NW Washington, DC 20503 Dear Deputy Director Zients: We write to urge you to maintain funding for mental health programs as you plan for the President's budget for Fiscal Year 2014. There have been five large-scale shootings since 2007. On December 14, 2012, twenty-six people – six adults and twenty children age six to seven - were shot and killed at the Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut. On August 5, 2012, six people lost their lives during a shooting at a Sikh temple in Oak Creek, Wisconsin. On July 20, 2012, twelve people were killed and fifty-eight injured in a shooting inside of a movie theater in Aurora, Colorado. On January 8, 2011, six people died and thirteen were wounded during a shooting at a public meeting held in a supermarket parking lot near Tucson, Arizona. On April 16, 2007, thirty-two people were shot and killed while seventeen were wounded on the campus of Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University in Blacksburg, Virginia. It is our understanding that in many instances the individuals who carried out these horrific and unforgivable acts were reported to have been suffering from some type of mental illness and/or substance abuse disorders. Those tragedies illustrate one clear fact: America is facing a mental health crisis that we can no longer ignore. In these difficult economic times, the demand for addiction and mental health care is anticipated to grow. Almost sixty percent of states have reported increased needs for community-based mental health services. According to the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry (AACAP), there is a severe shortage of child and adolescent psychiatrists, with more than 20,000 psychiatrists needed. Current statistics reveal that one out of five Americans will have some type of mental illness at least once in their lifetime. Businesses lose on average 1.3 billion days of work each year, costing them $44 billion annually, and affecting our economy at approximately id="mce_marker"50 billion a year. Suicide is among the top ten leading causes of death in the United States, with eighteen veterans taking their own lives every day, and the third leading cause of death in youths age 10-24. In a 2009 report, the Institute of Medicine declared that the prevention of mental health and substance abuse conditions among young people must be a national priority. Now is not the time to cut programs that help Americans with mental illnesses or substance abuse disorders. Doing so would only add to the already increasing problems that face our mental health system today. Cuts to the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) have already been enacted in Fiscal Year 2011 and Fiscal Year 2012, and states have cut funding for mental health care by nearly $3.4 billion over the last three years. Mental illness does not discriminate and can affect any man, woman, or child at some point in their life, regardless of their race, age, or financial status. This is why, now more than ever, we must continue to invest in mental health programs that reduce the stigma associated with mental illness, recognize mental illness equally to other health conditions and illnesses, promote prevention and detection initiatives, and provide access to mental health and substance abuse treatment services. Further cuts to these essential programs will pose a dangerous and serious threat to public health and safety. We can both help Americans in need and reduce the cost of mental health on society by investing in such programs. Again, we urge your immediate attention to this critically important matter, and thank you for your consideration of our request. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Grace Napolitano Member of Congress Eddie Bernice Johnson Member of Congress Cc: The Honorable John Boehner, Speaker, US House of Representatives The Honorable Harry Reid, Majority Leader, US Senate The Honorable Nancy Pelosi, Minority Leader, US House of Representatives The Honorable Mitch McConnell, Minority Leader, US Senate Joining Hastings, Napolitano, and Johnson as co-signers of the letter include (46): Representatives Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Danny K. Davis, Janice D. Schakowsky, David Loebsack, Barbara Lee, Nick J. Rahall II, Paul D. Tonko, Sander Levin, James R. Langevin, Raúl M. Grijalva, Bobby L. Rush, Gwen Moore, Theodore E. Deutch, Melvine L. Watt, Tim Ryan, Louise M. Slaughter, Kathy Castor, David N. Cicilline, Peter DeFazio, Jerrold Nadler, Ron Barber, Carolyn B. Maloney, Charles B. Rangel, Chaka Fattah, William Keating, Rush Holt, Elijah E. Cummings, Mike Honda, Jim McDermott, Betty McCollum, James P. McGovern, Jackie Speier, Judy Chu, Timothy Bishop, Madeleine Bordallo, Donna M. Christensen, Julia Brownley, Joaquin Castro, Rick Nolan, Lois Frankel, Filemon Vela, John Lewis, Peter Welch, Chris Van Hollen, Michelle Lujan Grisham, and Diana DeGette. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chaiman of the Florida Delegation. ### PDF: Mental_Health_Programs_Letter_-_1.10.13.pdf
01.08.2013	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) issued the following statement in commemoration of the 100th anniversary of Joe's Stone Crab: "It is my distinct honor and privilege to recognize Joe's Stone Crab as it celebrates its 100th anniversary. Established in 1913 by Joseph "Joe" Weiss, Joe's has gone from being a humble lunch stand to a beloved institution in the South Florida community. "The story of Joe's is truly an American one. Joe and his wife Jennie were Hungarian immigrants who started out waiting tables and cooking in small restaurants in New York. After their son Jesse was born, the Weiss family ended up settling in Miami Beach, where they founded Joe's Restaurant on the front porch of their bungalow in 1918. "Over the past century, Joe's has been a purveyor of great seafood and host to many great memories. I am pleased to congratulate the entire Joe's family on this momentous occasion. In particular, I would like to acknowledge Jo Ann, the third generation owner of Joe's, for continuing the legacy that her grandfather Joe started and father Jesse grew. "Joe's Stone Crab is a true testament to American entrepreneurship and culinary excellence. I wish Jo Ann and her family another 100 years of success and, of course, great food and company." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.04.2013	Today, Representatives Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) reintroduced the Congressional Everglades Caucus, and will serve as its Co-Chairs for the 113th Congress. The purpose of the Caucus is to educate Members and their staff on issues related to the Everglades. "I am happy to join my South Florida colleague Congressman Hastings as co-chair for the Everglades Caucus. The Everglades is one of the true ecological wonders of the world, and we must do everything we can to keep it thriving and healthy. We will work together with other members of Congress to support restoration efforts of this unique ecosystem." "The Everglades is a national treasure that provides Floridians with clean drinking water, and is home to many endangered and unique species," said Hastings. "It makes up a large portion of my Congressional district, and therefore I am acutely aware of the vital need for its restoration. I am pleased to be joined by my esteemed colleague, Congressman Diaz-Balart in raising greater awareness of the importance of the Everglades in Congress." ###
12.26.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement regarding the selection of the Lesbian and Gay Band Association (LGBA) by the Presidential Inaugural Committee (PIC) to perform in the 57th Inaugural Parade for President Barack Obama and Vice President Biden on January 21, 2013: "It is my great privilege and honor to announce that the LGBA has been invited by the Presidential Inaugural Committee to march in the upcoming Presidential Inaugural Parade. Over 2,800 applications were received, and I am truly pleased that the LGBA will have the opportunity to be a part of this historic event. "Marching bands are one of our nation's great traditions, and the LGBA helps continue this legacy while representing the tremendous diversity of our country. It will be sending 280 musicians from 27 states and the District of Columbia to perform in the parade. "For more than 30 years, the LGBA has brought together lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) Americans and their local bands. It members consist of accomplished adult musicians from 34 national and international marching band member organizations who play on a volunteer basis. "The LGBA is no stranger to fame. In fact, this will be the second time that it has marched in an inaugural parade, having made history as the first gay and lesbian group to march in a Presidential Inaugural Parade for President Obama in 2009. In addition, the LGBA previously performed as part of both the 1993 and 1997 Inaugural celebrations for President Bill Clinton, as well as in major events both nationally and abroad. "I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate Adam DeRosa, President of the LGBA and one of my constituents, as well as each and every one of its members. They can surely be proud of all their hard work. I have no doubt that the LGBA will inspire Inaugural Parade-goers with yet another spectacular show, and I very much look forward to seeing it." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.19.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) issued the following statement in support of the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees' (IATSE) boycott of the Raymond F. Kravis Center for the Performing Arts in West Palm Beach: "I stand in solidarity with the members of the IATSE in demanding quality contracts for their workers. Among Palm Beach County venues, the Kravis Center stands alone in its refusal to treat its workers with respect. "It is high time that they concede to the rulings of the National Labor Relations Board and federal courts by rehiring the union stagehands, paying them their back wages and benefits, and agreeing to a contract consistent with federal labor law." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.14.2012	Tonight, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement on the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut: "The massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary, which is located on a hill in Newtown Connecticut, makes the so-called 'Fiscal Cliff' look like a molehill. Those of us in Congress are at odds about money, while all around us unnecessary guns are proliferating in communities across our nation, and helping our society to crumble. We can't do everything to stop gun violence. But, we can and we must do something, and we must do it now! "Here are a few things that we can do: • Ensure that owning a gun be protected as stated in the Second Amendment of the U.S. Constitution. • Assault weapons should only be in the hands of or sold to no one other than military and police officials. • We must enhance the 'Cops in School Program,' and provide security officers to every Public School in America. • We should make conflict resolution part of school curricula. • Require background checks where any weapon is sold. • Require everyone to be taught relevant gun safety when purchasing a weapon. • Increase funding for mental health and social services." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.14.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) sent the following letter to Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Deputy Director for Management Jeffrey Zients, urging him to maintain funding for homelessness programs as he considers discretionary spending cuts for the remainder of the Fiscal Year, and plans for the President's budget for Fiscal Year 2014. Hastings who is Co-Chair and Co-Founder of the Congressional Homelessness Caucus was joined by 31 of his colleagues in sending the letter. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter). December 14, 2012 Mr. Jeffrey Zients Deputy Director for Management Office of Management and Budget 725 17th Street, NW Washington, DC 20503 Dear Deputy Director Zients: We write to urge you to maintain funding for homelessness programs as you consider discretionary spending cuts for the remainder of the Fiscal Year and plan for the President's budget for Fiscal Year 2014. The report released on September 14, 2012 by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) estimated that the sequestration would require an 8.2 percent reduction in nonexempt nondefense discretionary funding. These arbitrary across-the-board cuts will have a devastating impact on millions of Americans and will disproportionally affect our most vulnerable populations. While we are working to avoid sequestration and find a bipartisan budget deal by the end of the year, we want to bring to your attention the importance of continued funding of programs that assist the homeless. Today, on any given night in America, anywhere from 700,000 to 2 million people are homeless. Furthermore, 34 percent of the homeless population is comprised of families with children, and 12 percent are veterans. Millions of Americans are still dealing with the consequences of the housing meltdown that left close to one in four families with a mortgage underwater at the end of 2010. Home foreclosures are at an all-time high, with the foreclosure rate for all loans rising from 1.28 percent in the first quarter of 2007 to 4.39 percent in the first quarter of 2012. In addition, the scarcity of affordable housing in the United States - particularly in urban areas where homelessness is more prevalent - has aggravated the situation. Increased foreclosures, unaffordable housing, and unemployment rates above 8 percent have resulted in higher rates of homelessness. Now is not the time to cut programs that keep millions of Americans off the streets. In these difficult economic times, Americans deserve our government's support, and it is our responsibility to help those who need it the most. This is why, now more than ever, we must continue to invest in homelessness programs that address the needs of our most vulnerable individuals and families. Those programs are provided by several agencies and include: the Education for Homeless Children and Youth program, the Emergency Food and Shelter (EFS) program, the Health Care for the Homeless (HCH) program, Projects for Assistance in Transition from Homelessness (PATH), the Runaway and Homeless Youth program, Homeless Veterans Reintegration program, Grants for the Benefit of Homeless Individuals, and the Homeless Assistance Grants. Without adequate funding for those programs, hospitalizations, medical treatments, police interventions, and emergency shelter expenses will dramatically increase. We can both help Americans in need and reduce the cost of homelessness on society by investing in such programs. Again, we urge your immediate attention to this critically important matter, and thank you for your consideration of our request. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Cc: The Honorable John Boehner, Speaker, US House of Representatives The Honorable Harry Reid, Majority Leader, US Senate The Honorable Nancy Pelosi, Minority Leader, US House of Representatives The Honorable Mitch McConnell, Minority Leader, US Senate Joining Hastings as co-signers of the letter include (31): Representatives Eddie Bernice Johnson, Raul Grijalva, Ted Deutch, Danny Davis, Barbara Lee, Loretta Sanchez, Emanuel Cleaver, Jan Schakowsky, Zoe Lofgren, Marcy Kaptur, Hansen Clarke, Yvette Clarke, Laura Richardson, Ed Towns, Gwen Moore, Al Green, Andre Carson, Hank Johnson, Corrine Brown, Frederica Wilson, Charles Rangel, Sheila Jackson Lee, Bobby Rush, William Lacy Clay Jr., Marcia Fudge, John Lewis, Terri Sewell, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Donna Christensen, Zoe Lofgren, Keith Ellison, and Donna Edwards. Endorsing organizations: National Coalition for the Homeless, National Law Center on Homelessness & Poverty, National Health Care for the Homeless Council, National Center on Family Homelessness, National Low Income Housing Coalition, Corporation for Supportive Housing, First Focus Campaign for Children, Lutheran Services in America, and Western Regional Advocacy Project Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Homelessness_Programs_in_the_Sequester_letter_12.14.12.pdf
12.05.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) will attend a holiday toy-drive event hosted by Keiser University and Operation HomeFront Florida on Friday, December 7th at 3 PM. The event will take place at Keiser University's Fort Lauderdale campus, located at 1500 NW 49th Street. EVENT DETAILS: WHO: Congressman Alcee L. Hastings WHAT: Toy-Drive Hosted by Keiser University and Operation HomeFront Florida WHEN: Friday, December 7, 2012 at 3:00 PM WHERE: 1500 NW 49th Street – Fort Lauderdale, FL 33309 Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.30.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in recognition of the 24th annual World AIDS Day, which takes place on December 1, 2012: "In recent years, significant progress has been made in the global response to HIV/AIDS. According to the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS), the rate of new HIV infections is down by more than 50 percent across 25 low- and middle-income countries, including some with the highest HIV prevalence in the world. Furthermore, many countries are achieving rapid results in reducing AIDS-related deaths and scaling up lifesaving HIV treatment as they continue working towards key development and HIV/AIDS commitment goals. "Here at home, the United States has also stepped up its leadership with regard to responding to the HIV/AIDS crisis. Most recently, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and Ambassador Eric P. Goosby, U.S. Global AIDS Coordinator, unveiled the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) Blueprint: Creating an AIDS-free Generation, which provides a roadmap for how the U.S. government will work to help achieve an AIDS-free generation. In addition, the United States successfully hosted in July the XIX International AIDS Conference (AIDS 2012) in Washington, D.C., marking the return of the premier science and policy event after a misguided travel and immigration ban against people with HIV was lifted in 2010. "Despite these notable advancements, however, HIV/AIDS continues to spread and affect millions of Americans all across our country. More than 1.1 million people are living with HIV/AIDS in the United States and approximately 50,000 new HIV infections occur each year, with a disproportionate impact on African Americans and gay and bisexual men. Furthermore, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) report that about one in four (26 percent) of these infections are among youth ages 13-24. In 2010 alone, approximately 12,000 young people were infected with HIV. And, whereas one in five adults with HIV is unaware of their infection, three times as many young people with HIV may be unknowingly infecting others. "It is clear that we must increase our efforts further if we are to achieve an AIDS-free generation. World AIDS Day has long been a critical tool in this endeavor, serving to raise public awareness, remind us of all those affected by HIV/AIDS, and improve prevention and treatment programs. This year's theme for World AIDS Day is 'Working Together for an AIDS-Free Generation.' It is a fact that each and every single one of us has the power – right now – to take steps that will help make an AIDS-free generation a reality. But, in order to succeed, we must come together and recognize that our actions not only affect ourselves, but those we love, our community, and our nation as a whole. "Routine testing for HIV remains one of the most powerful ways to prevent the spread of HIV and access treatment if necessary. It is important to remember that putting people on antiretroviral drugs not only helps them live longer, but virtually prevents them from transmitting the virus. If we can get to a point where more people are being treated for HIV than passing it on to others, then we can truly reverse the epidemic. Furthermore, we must continue to address stigma and other related challenges in our communities and as a society by continuing to have an open, honest dialogue about HIV/AIDS, particularly knowing your HIV status and getting care. "At the federal level, I will continue working with my colleagues in Congress to prevent detrimental cuts to Medicare, Medicaid, the CDC, National Institutes of Health (NIH), and Ryan White Program under the so-called 'sequestration' set to take effect in January 2013, which threaten vital treatment for 15,708 people on the AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP) and housing support for 4,738 households, as well as 460 AIDS research grants. Finally, I remain committed to supporting policies and legislation that promote affordable drug pricing and access for all Americans. "As we recognize the 24th annual World AIDS Day, it is my sincere hope that we will soon see the beginning of an AIDS-free generation in the years to come. Whether that happens is a choice we must make together, and I ask you to join me in putting a stop to HIV/AIDS once and for all." Congressman Hastings is a staunch advocate for the HIV/AIDS community and a member of the Congressional HIV/AIDS Caucus. In the 112th Congress, he introduced H.R. 1774, the Increasing Access to Voluntary Screening for HIV/AIDS and STIs Act, which increases coverage for voluntary, routine HIV/AIDS and STI testing, and resolutions in support of AIDS 2012 and the 6th IAS Conference on HIV Pathogenesis, Treatment, and Prevention. Congressman Hastings also helped secure $48 million in additional funding for our nation's AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP) in the full-year Continuing Resolution for FY 2011, and hosted a Democratic Florida Delegation meeting on HIV/AIDS. In addition, he continues to support robust funding for PEPFAR, the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program, Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA) Program, Minority HIV/AIDS Initiative, and National AIDS Strategy, as well as HIV/AIDS research. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.27.2012	Today, Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), along with Representatives Corrine Brown (D-FL), Kathy Castor (D-FL), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Ted Deutch (D-FL), and Frederica Wilson sent the following letter to Martin R. Castro, Chairman of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights. The letter requests that the Commission hold a hearing regarding H.B. 1355, which was signed into law by Florida Governor Rick Scott on May 19, 2011. (Please find attached and below a copy of the letter). November 27, 2012 Mr. Martin R. CastroChairmanU.S. Commission on Civil Rights1331 Pennsylvania Ave., NWSuite 1150Washington, DC 20425 Dear Mr. Castro: We write to request that the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights hold a hearing regarding H.B. 1355, which was signed into law by Florida Governor Rick Scott on May 19, 2011. Recently, former Governor Charlie Crist, former Florida Republican Chairman Jim Greer, as well as an anonymous group of Republican consultants alleged that the Republican-controlled Florida legislature passed H.B. 1355 in order to intentionally suppress Democratic turnout. The law limited access to the polls for minorities, seniors, and college students. In particular, it reduced the number of early voting days and imposed new restrictive regulations on voter registration groups. In light of these allegations, we are extremely concerned over the integrity of this law and the justification for its implementation. Therefore, we believe that a hearing must be held as soon as possible. As you know, trust in our democracy is what holds our country together. Voters must be able to trust that their elected officials are acting in their best interest. We thank you for your time and consideration of our request and look forward to a prompt response. Sincerely, Alcee L. HastingsMember of Congress Corrine BrownMember of Congress Kathy CastorMember of Congress Debbie Wasserman SchultzMember of Congress Ted DeutchMember of Congress Frederica WilsonMember of Congress Cc: Abigail Thernstrom, Vice-Chair, U.S. Commission on Civil RightsPeter N. Kirsanow, Commissioner, U.S. Commission on Civil RightsRoberta Achtenberg, Commissioner, U.S. Commission on Civil RightsGail Heriot, Commissioner, U.S. Commission on Civil RightsTodd Gaziano, Commissioner, U.S. Commission on Civil RightsMichael Yaki, Commissioner, U.S. Commission on Civil RightsDavid Kladney, Commissioner, U.S. Commission Civil Rights Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### LETTER_Commission_Civil_Rights_Florida_Law.pdf
11.20.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hasting (D-FL) will appear on Sunday, November 25th at 11:30 AM on "This Week in South Florida" with Michael Putney. This Week in South Florida airs on WPLG Local 10. For more information, please visit www.local10.com. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.19.2012	Today, Rep. Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement commending Rep. Marcia Fudge (D-OH), who was unanimously elected by the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) to serve as its Chair in the 113th Congress: "I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate my dear friend and colleague, Congresswoman Marcia Fudge, on being elected the next Chair of the CBC. In addition, I would also like to extend my congratulations to First Vice Chair-elect G.K. Butterfield (D-NC), Second Vice Chair-elect Yvette Clarke (D-NY), Secretary-elect André Carson (D-IN), and Whip-elect Karen Bass (D-CA-33). "Marcia Fudge is an excellent choice to lead the CBC into the 113th Congress. As we continue to address the many challenges facing our nation, there is no doubt in my mind that she, along with the Executive Board, will ensure that the CBC remains a bastion of equal opportunity and justice for all Americans. Together, we will stand up for hardworking families, struggling communities, and our nation's most vulnerable, while creating jobs and moving our nation forward." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.19.2012	Today, Rep. Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement commending Rep. Marcia Fudge (D-OH), who was unanimously elected by the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) to serve as its Chair in the 113th Congress: "I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate my dear friend and colleague, Congresswoman Marcia Fudge, on being elected the next Chair of the CBC. In addition, I would also like to extend my congratulations to First Vice Chair-elect G.K. Butterfield (D-NC), Second Vice Chair-elect Yvette Clarke (D-NY), Secretary-elect André Carson (D-IN), and Whip-elect Karen Bass (D-CA-33). "Marcia Fudge is an excellent choice to lead the CBC into the 113th Congress. As we continue to address the many challenges facing our nation, there is no doubt in my mind that she, along with the Executive Board, will ensure that the CBC remains a bastion of equal opportunity and justice for all Americans. Together, we will stand up for hardworking families, struggling communities, and our nation's most vulnerable, while creating jobs and moving our nation forward." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.16.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in observance of the World Day of Remembrance for Road Traffic Victims, which will be observed on Sunday, November 18, 2012: "In every country in the world, traffic accidents continue to claim lives. These preventable tragedies impact not only the victims but also their families, friends, and loved ones. As we continue to observe the Decade of Action for Road Safety, we should take this day to remember who it is that we are fighting for. I offer my thoughts and prayers to all those who have lost loved ones to road crashes, and pledge to continue my support of policies that increase public safety. "Road traffic crashes kill nearly 1.3 million people every year and injure or disable as many as 50 million more. The leading cause of death throughout the world for people ages 10 to 29 is not disease or war, but road crashes. Even today, we can expect that 1,000 people under the age of 25 will die on the world's roads. "It is important to note that road crashes place a particular burden on developing nations. High crash rates in these countries negatively impact struggling economies, costing an estimated $100 billion and often exceeding the total amount received by these countries in development assistance. The impact of road crashes continue through the law enforcement, health care, and education systems, as many victims require extensive and expensive care. "In October 2005, the United Nations General Assembly adopted a resolution which calls for governments to mark the third Sunday in November each year as World Day of Remembrance for Road Traffic Victims. The day was created as a means to give recognition both to victims of road traffic crashes and to the plight of their relatives who must cope with the emotional and practical consequences of these tragic events. "Essential policies to prevent such misfortunes include improved transportation management, infrastructure, vehicle safety, education, and post-crash care and rehabilitation. Here in the United States we must continue to enact policies designed to reduce key accident risk factors, like speeding, drunk and distracted driving, and the failure of many Americans to use seat belts, child restraints, and other safety devices. "We must take action. We all use roads, cars, buses, and bicycles every day, and it is easy to take safety for granted. But the sad reality is that road fatalities and injuries have an enormous impact on our lives. "No one should die because of entirely preventable traffic accidents. We must do everything we can to raise awareness and address the underlying causes. On this year's Day of Remembrance, let us pay extra attention to the ways we can make the world a safer place." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.05.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement recognizing National Breast Cancer Awareness Month: "For more than 20 years, the observance of National Breast Cancer Awareness Month each October has provided a time for us all to reflect on those who battle breast cancer every day, those who have lost the battle against the disease, and the 2.5 million survivors across the country. This month, we stand together in the fight to find a cure to this horrible disease. "Breast cancer is the second leading cause of death among women. Every two minutes, a woman is diagnosed with breast cancer, and every thirteen minutes one woman dies of the disease in the United States. In Florida alone, about 15,000 new cases of breast cancer were diagnosed in 2011, and an estimated 2,700 of these women will die from the disease. While women who have a family history of breast cancer are in a higher risk group, most women who have breast cancer have no genetic predisposition. Statistically, only 15 percent of individuals diagnosed with breast cancer have a family history of the disease. In addition, whereas breast cancer in men is rare, with 1 out of every 1000 men diagnosed each year, the mortality rate is much higher due to reduced awareness. "The National Breast Cancer Foundation recommends that all women maintain healthy eating habits, stay physically active, and limit the consumption of tobacco and alcohol in order to reduce the risk of getting breast cancer. In addition, prevention and early detection are crucial to saving lives. Early detection includes breast self-exams and regular clinical screenings. Breast cancer can be diagnosed through multiple tests, including mammograms, ultrasounds, MRIs, and biopsies. When breast cancer is detected early, at a localized stage, the survival rate is 98 percent. "I commend the men and women who have survived breast cancer, those who fight the disease every day, and those who work tirelessly to end it. Together, we can eradicate the disease. I will continue the effort in Congress by promoting breast health awareness and education, supporting research, and ensuring that those affected receive high quality and affordable care." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.04.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letter to William A. Meyer, Chairman of the Board of Directors for the Raymond F. Kravis Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. The letter urges the Kravis Center to end the ongoing labor dispute and reach an immediate agreement with the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees (IATSE). (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter). October 4, 2012 Mr. William A. MeyerChairmanBoard of DirectorsThe Raymond F. Kravis Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.701 Okeechobee BoulevardWest Palm Beach, FL 33401 Dear Mr. Meyer: I write to express my dismay over the continued refusal by the Raymond F. Kravis Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. to bargain in good faith with the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees (IATSE). As you know, this dispute began in September 2000, when the Kravis Center unlawfully fired stagehands and committed unfair labor practices. Despite multiple rulings against the Kravis Center, it has yet to pay $2.6 million in back pay and benefit contributions to IATSE stagehands. I do not understand why, after twelve years of rulings in the union's favor, your facility is still not willing to cooperate and continues to violate federal labor law. With a hearing scheduled for October 29, 2012, it is my sincere hope that the Kravis Center will finally put an end to this ongoing dispute, and reach an immediate agreement with the union. Sincerely, Alcee L. HastingsMember of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Rep_Alcee_Hastings_Kravis_Center_Letter_10.4.2012.pdf
10.04.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) sent the following letter to President Obama urging the administration to create a Haitian Family Reunification Parole Program. This program would allow Haitians with approved family based visa petitions to come to the United States while awaiting their visas. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter). October 4, 2012 The Honorable Barack ObamaPresident of the United StatesThe White House1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NWWashington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President, In a letter dated July 10, 2012, I urged you to create a Haitian Family Reunification Parole Program that would allow Haitians with approved family based visa petitions to come to the United States while they await their visas. Since that time, your administration has renewed Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Haitians, yet has failed to provide a response explaining the lack of a family reunification program. As the extension of TPS shows, Haiti is far from recovering from the January 2010 earthquake and remains plagued by a stagnant economy, crumbling infrastructure, and poor health conditions. Yet, there are approximately 112,000 Haitians with approved visa petitions who are forced to languish in Haiti for no other reason than arbitrary per country limits. These individuals have already had their petitions approved and have family willing and able to support them upon their arrival in the United States. In addition to simply being able to leave the island, they would also be able to work and send back remittances to further aid in Haiti's recovery. Such a program is not unprecedented, as Cubans currently benefit from a similar program created in 2007 by the Department of Homeland Security and renewed by your administration. Additionally, it requires no congressional action and stands to improve the lives of thousands of Haitians. It is simply the right thing to do. Once again, I urge you to direct your administration to create a Haitian Family Reunification Parole Program so that the thousands of Haitians who have already been approved can join their families in the United States and work to actively assist in Haiti's recovery. Thank you for your consideration of this matter, and I look forward to your response. Sincerely, Alcee L. HastingsMember of Congress Cc: The Honorable Janet NapolitanoSecretary, U.S. Department of Homeland Security The Honorable Hillary ClintonSecretary, U.S. Department of State Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Letter_to_Obama_-_Haitian_Family_Reunification_Parole_Program_-_10-4-12.pdf
10.01.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in commemoration of LGBT History Month, which is observed each October, in conjunction with National Coming Out Day, to recognize the many contributions and ongoing struggle for equal rights of our nation's lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) community: "I am proud to join the nation in celebrating the start of LGBT History Month and recognizing National Coming Out Day on October 11, 2012. It is because of courageous individuals like Rodney Wilson, the Missouri high school teacher who created LGBT History Month in 1994, that the next generation of leaders and citizens will be able to build upon the hard work and sacrifice of all those who have dedicated their lives to achieving true equality for all Americans. From the classroom to public office to the world of professional sports, I am truly inspired to see so many Americans of all ages come out openly as LGBT or come out in support of their LGBT family members and friends. "Step by step, we continue to advance the rights of LGBT individuals and their families. Just recently, the Department of Homeland Security announced that it would issue written guidance clarifying that LGBT family ties would be recognized in immigration cases. In addition, our nation celebrated on September 20th the one-year anniversary of the repeal of 'Don't Ask, Don't Tell,' which stands as a testament to our brave men and women in uniform and our military's commitment to honor, integrity, and equality. "While we celebrate these victories, however, I am sadly aware of the great injustice and discrimination that LGBT Americans continue to face on a daily basis. In many states all across the country, committed same-sex couples lack the legal protections and benefits of marriage; it remains legal to fire workers based solely on their sexual orientation, gender identity, or gender expression; and students are afraid to be themselves at school. That is why we must redouble our efforts to repeal the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA), pass the Employment Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA), and enact effective anti-bullying legislation. In addition, we must address issues that impact the well-being and financial security of LGBT Americans, such as equal access to family and medical leave, credit, and tax benefits. "This LGBT History Month, I encourage my colleagues in Congress and all Americans to take the opportunity to reflect on the human rights pioneers who have led us to where we are today. It is my sincere hope that, together, we will continue to turn the pages of history forward on LGBT equality in this country." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.25.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in recognition of National Voter Registration Day: "I, along with many others in Florida and across the nation, fought long and hard for the right to vote. While great strides have been made to improve our elections in recent years, continued efforts to suppress the rights of voters not only threatens our democracy, but also the integrity of our electoral process. It is time for this to change. We cannot sit idly by and allow the clock to turn back on 40 years of progress. "As we recognize National Voter Registration Day, it is imperative that we work together to strengthen our nation's democracy and ensure that the voting rights of all Americans are protected." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.14.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the occasion of Rosh Hashanah, the Jewish New Year, which begins on sundown this Sunday, September 16th. Rosh Hashanah marks the year 5773 in the Jewish calendar. "I send my warmest greetings to my friends for a happy and sweet New Year," said Hastings. "This is a time for personal reflection, celebrating with family, friends, and loved ones, and looking forward to new opportunities. "As we work to examine and improve our own selves, and to practice and seek forgiveness, let us also keep in mind those amongst us who are struggling through difficult times: here at home, in Israel, and around the world. Let this coming year bring about opportunities to improve not only ourselves but the world around us. "I am very pleased to represent such a caring, warm, and active Jewish community in and around my district in South Florida. I wish good health, happiness, peace, and prosperity to all my friends. L'Shana Tova." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation ###
09.12.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) condemned the recent attack on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, Libya, which culminated in the death of Ambassador Christopher Stevens, Foreign Service Information Management Officer Sean Smith, and two other unidentified Americans. "I deplore the attack that took the lives of Ambassador Christopher Stevens, Foreign Service Information Management Officer Sean Smith, and two other Americans," said Hastings. "There is absolutely no justification for such a heinous act of hatred and violence. "Ambassador Stevens and his consular staff, along with the entire American diplomatic mission working in Libya, were in the country to help the Libyan people overcome decades of misrule and oppression under the Qaddafi regime. They were in Libya to assist with the transition to democracy inspired by the Libyan people themselves, which will lead to a more tolerant, inclusive, and prosperous society for all Libyans. "Ambassador Stevens and his team exemplified the hard work, courage, and commitment to freedom, democracy, and international partnership that are the hallmarks of American diplomacy around the world. "My thoughts are with the families and loved ones of all those killed during this most difficult time. Their legacy will carry on, and the hard work of pursuing peace and justice will continue." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.11.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) congratulated Mark and Tiffani Dhooge on receiving the 2012 Angels in Adoption Award. Hastings nominated the Dhooges for the award, which is given through the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI) to honor an individual, couple, or organization that has made extraordinary contributions on behalf of children in need of homes. "It is truly an honor to recognize the important work that Mark and Tiffani are doing in South Florida by nominating them for this year's Angels in Adoption Award," said Hastings. "For the last 30 years, Mark and Tiffani have profoundly impacted the lives of thousands of children and families." Along with their team at Kids in Distress, Inc., the Dhooges have facilitated over one hundred adoptions and/or permanent guardianships per year and have helped develop model programs for the South Florida community. Additionally, through their own business, Genesis Photography, the Dhooges donate their photography services in the courtroom when a family achieves permanency so that they may document the joy of that moment and their journey together as a family. "Mark and Tiffani have demonstrated an unwavering commitment to bettering the lives of children that extends far beyond their work as child welfare professionals. They are truly 'Angels in Adoption,' and I am proud to congratulate them on this much-deserved honor." Mark and Tiffani Dhooge join other 2012 Angels in Adoption winners in traveling to Washington, DC, this week, where they will participate in training events, celebrate their achievements, and bring much-needed attention to the fostering and adoption processes. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.11.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in remembrance of the 9/11 terrorist attacks on the United States: "Today, we remember all those who lost their lives in the attacks of September 11, 2001. My thoughts and prayers go out to the families and friends of the nearly 3,000 people who were killed in the World Trade Center, the Pentagon, and Shanksville, Pennsylvania. For their loved ones and our nation as a whole, things will never be the same again. "We also take this moment to honor the sacrifices of our heroes – the first responders, fire fighters, police officers, and everyday citizens – who risked and lost their lives to help their fellow Americans. On that day, we saw the best of America shine through one of the darkest times for our country. We showed the world that, even in the face of tragedy, our great nation could come together, put aside our differences, and rebuild what hate had attempted to destroy. "Over the past 11 years, we have worked diligently to bring Osama bin Laden and members of al-Qaeda to justice, as well as detect and prevent terrorist attacks of all types. In particular, I would like to recognize the dedicated men and women of our nation's intelligence community, military, and law enforcement for all that they do each and every single day to ensure the safety of the American people. We owe them a deep debt of gratitude. "As we take a moment to pause and reflect on the 11th anniversary of 9/11, let us pay our respects to all those affected by the attacks by reaffirming our commitment to protecting each other and continuing our efforts to root out hatred and extremism." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.11.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), along with Senator Bill Nelson (D-FL) and Congressman Ted Deutch (D-FL), sent the following letter to Governor Rick Scott urging him to provide much needed aid to Palm Beach County residents in the aftermath of Tropical Storm Isaac. Please find below and attached a copy of the letter: September 11, 2012 The Honorable Rick ScottGovernorThe Capitol400 S. Monroe St.Tallahassee, FL 3299 Dear Governor Scott: We write in order to ask that you make use of all the resources at your disposal to provide Palm Beach County with the help it needs to repair the damages resulting from flooding caused by Tropical Storm Isaac. Preliminary estimates of the damages to the County are as high as $71 million. When all the assessments are completed, the total amount of damage may be considerably greater. Infrastructure that County residents use every day was damaged, from roads, bridges, and government buildings, to privately owned property, even homes. According to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), Palm Beach County schools alone have suffered over $1 million in damages due to the devastating flooding. This is money that these schools can ill afford to spare from their already tight budgets. We hope you will agree that in the aftermath of a natural disaster such as this both the state and federal government should make use of all of their resources needed to help its suffering citizens. We know that you and the Florida Division of Emergency Management will do everything within your power to help Palm Beach County residents rebuild their communities. Thank you for your consideration of our request. Please keep us informed on this matter and contact our offices with any questions or further information. Sincerely, Alcee L. HastingsMember of Congress Bill NelsonU.S. Senator Ted DeutchMember of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### LETTER_Palm_Beach_County_Flooding_Tropical_Storm_Isaac.pdf
08.14.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) will speak at the closing session of the Annual Head Start/Early Head Start Pre-Service Conference on Wednesday, August 15th at 12:30 p.m. at the Hyatt Regency Hotel in Miami, Florida. DETAILS: WHO: Congressman Alcee L. Hastings WHAT: Annual Head Start/Early Head Start Pre-Service Conference WHEN: Wednesday, August 15, 2012 at 12:30 p.m. WHERE: Hyatt Regency Hotel (400 SE Second Avenue, Miami, Florida) Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.06.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement regarding the shooting at a Sikh temple in Oak Creek, Wisconsin on August 5th: "Once again, the specter of hate has cast a shadow on our great nation. My thoughts and prayers go out to the families and friends of the victims as well as the Oak Creek and Sikh communities, which have been shaken by this terrible act of cowardice and intolerance. While we mourn the victims of Sunday's attack and offer our deepest sympathies to their loved ones, it is important that we reinvigorate efforts to combat the scourge of intolerance infecting our society and the world. "In the wake of the recent shooting in Aurora, Colorado, this is also a wakeup call. It is my sincere hope that Congress will come together in a bipartisan manner to have a much-needed discussion on gun control. I find it simply nonsensical to allow the sale of weapons that are solely designed to kill others. It is high time that we got serious about gun control in this country and protect American citizens from violence like this." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.02.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) will visit 7th Avenue Family Health Center in Fort Lauderdale, Florida on Tuesday, August 7th at 10:30 a.m. in recognition of National Health Center Week. DETAILS: WHO: Congressman Alcee L. Hastings WHAT: 7th Avenue Family Health Center Visit for National Health Center Week WHEN: Tuesday, August 7, 2012 at 10:30 a.m. WHERE: 7th Avenue Family Health Center (200 NW 7th Avenue, Fort Lauderdale, Florida) Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.02.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced the PCIP Improvement Act of 2012, a bill that will make much-needed improvements to the Pre-Existing Condition Insurance Plan (PCIP) program created by the Affordable Care Act (ACA). The ACA prohibits insurance companies from refusing to sell coverage or renew policies because of a person's pre-existing condition. While the provision already affects children up to nineteen years of age, it will only apply to adults in January 2014. In the meantime, adults with a pre-existing condition can get coverage through the PCIP program, a temporary high risk pool which has helped over 50,000 previously uninsured individuals get coverage. Hastings' legislation will eliminate the 6 month wait period and exclude mini medical plans from creditable coverage in relation to eligibility requirements for the PCIP program. (Please find attached a copy of the legislation). "While I have always been a strong supporter of this important program, I believe that some improvements need to be made in order to make it a success. Indeed, enrollment has been significantly lower than initial projections, which varied from 200,000 to 375,000. One of the biggest obstacles for enrollment in the program is a Congressional mandate requiring that individuals applying for PCIP coverage have not had creditable insurance coverage during the 6 months prior to the date they apply to the program. Since the program's inception in July 2010, 69 percent of applications have been denied because individuals had creditable coverage within 6 months of applying. "While well-intentioned, this wait period has shown adverse effects by incentivizing people with pre-existing conditions to go uninsured for 6 months to qualify for the program. Furthermore, considering mini medical plans as creditable coverage also encourages individuals to go with absolutely no coverage for 6 months in order to apply to PCIP. "Such a misfortune happened to one of my constituents who lost his health insurance when he lost his job and has been denied coverage because of a pre-existing condition since then. In June 2010, he received limited coverage through a mini medical plan that did not cover his pre-existing condition. When he applied to PCIP in September 2011, his application was denied because he had such plan within 6 months of applying. The only way for him to qualify was to go completely uninsured for 6 months. I cannot, in good conscience, advise my constituents in need of immediate care to wait 6 months to seek medical coverage. "My legislation will address these serious issues and bring us one step closer to ensuring accessible, affordable, and quality health care for all Americans." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### PCIP_Improvement_Act_of_2012.pdf
08.01.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) sent the following letter to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Gilead Sciences, Inc., Dr. John C. Martin, expressing concern over the effect of certain HIV drug price increases in the commercial market on the AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP). Joining Hastings in sending this letter are (12): Representatives Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), Corrine Brown (FL-03), Sam Farr (CA-17), Luis V. Gutierrez (IL-04), Maxine Waters (CA-35), Lynn C. Woolsey (CA-06), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Raúl M. Grijalva (AZ-07), Maurice D. Hinchey (NY-22), Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-34), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20), and Ted Deutch (FL-19). (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter). August 1, 2012 Dr. John C. MartinChairman and Chief Executive OfficerGilead Sciences, Inc.333 Lakeside DriveFoster City, CA 94404 Dear Mr. Martin: As Members of Congress who are committed to ensuring access for people living with HIV/AIDS to lifesaving treatment, we write to express our concern regarding the implications of Gilead's recent price increases for certain antiretroviral drugs in the commercial market on our nation's AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP). It is our understanding that, while Gilead currently has a price freeze in effect through 2013 for drugs provided to ADAP, the prices of HIV/AIDS drugs in the commercial market have indirectly exacerbated the ongoing ADAP funding crisis. In addition, we are troubled by media reports that indicate that Gilead may charge as much as $34,000 for its new drug, known as the "Quad," in the commercial market. Without more affordable HIV/AIDS drugs, we fear that Ryan White Part B-funded co-pays and deductibles will continue to rise, leaving less funding available for ADAP and thousands of our most vulnerable constituents untreated. Therefore, we urge Gilead to consider sustainable pricing strategies for its products that would help allow ADAP to provide treatment to as many individuals as possible. In January, Gilead imposed a 7.9 percent price increase on Truvada and agreed to a 7.3 percent increase on Complera and a 6.6 percent increase on Atripla in the commercial market. These price increases significantly exceed the annual rate of inflation according to the Consumer Price Index (CPI), making these drugs less affordable for privately insured patients and Medicare patients. As a result, Ryan White Part B programs that help these patients afford their co-pays and deductibles now face overwhelming demand and have instituted waiting lists. Given that Ryan White Part B funds both the co-pays and deductibles of privately insured patients as well as ADAP, price increases for antiretroviral drugs in the commercial market diminish the ability of ADAPs to purchase drugs and sustain their case loads. More affordable prices for antiretroviral drugs in the commercial market would mean smaller co-pays and deductibles for insured patients and thus more Ryan White Part B funding for ADAP. Furthermore, several leading national AIDS organizations have indicated that, based on their analysis of the current market price of antiretroviral components, they expect Gilead's upcoming Quad HIV combination drug to cost between $27,000 and $34,000 per patient per year. This would be 38 percent more than the cost of Atripla, the most commonly utilized HIV combination drug. Due to the Quad's single-tablet regimen and lack of neuropsychiatric side effects, it is expected to become a first-line therapy for many doctors. Yet if the Quad is commercially priced at the lowest estimation of $27,000, the negotiated price for ADAP would still likely top the current ADAP price for Atripla of id="mce_marker"0,000 per person per year. This would have a detrimental impact on ADAP as purchasing drugs represents 85 percent of its costs. Current ADAP funds would equate to fewer drugs for patients and waiting lists would grow. ADAPs all across the country are already struggling to meet the increasing demand for HIV/AIDS drugs. According to the most recent data available, there are 1,805 individuals on ADAP waiting lists in nine states nationwide. Furthermore, 445 individuals in three states were disenrolled from their respective programs as a result of new cost-containment measures and six ADAPs have lowered their financial eligibility. Given the difficult budget challenges facing these states, rising drug costs in the commercial market threaten to further hinder ADAP operations and disrupt or prevent access to lifesaving treatment for those in need. Previous drug price increases in the commercial market that exceeded the annual rate of inflation have forced states to either cut funding for ADAP or other essential health care services. In the end, people living with HIV/AIDS are paying for these costs with their health. At a time when millions of Americans continue to face daily uncertainties – from diminishing job security and income, to devalued mortgages, to rising health care costs – people living with HIV/AIDS are especially vulnerable. For the majority of these individuals, who are low-income, uninsured, or underinsured, ADAP is their only lifeline. Sadly, due to the ongoing ADAP waiting lists, reduced formularies, and other cost-containment measures, countless individuals living with HIV/AIDS do not know where else to turn for the drugs they need to stay alive. In this regard, we would like to commend Gilead and other pharmaceutical companies for their efforts to help these patients through ADAP rebates and their co-pay and Patient Assistance Programs (PAPs). Ultimately, however, we cannot hope to bring an end to the waiting lists if ADAP is unable to procure the drugs necessary to support all patients using current available funding. If we are to be successful in improving the health outcomes of people living with HIV/AIDS and preventing the transmission of HIV, we must strive to make treatment more accessible and affordable for all patients. The rising costs of antiretroviral drugs in the commercial market have limited the number of people who can be served using exisiting ADAP funds, which, despite increased support in recent years, have proven to be severely insufficient. The unfortunate reality is that many state ADAPs are just one budget crisis away from exhausting all available funds. In fact, this scenario has already come to pass. Moreover, while ADAP serves as a safety net for low-income, uninsured, and underinsured individuals, those who do not meet increasingly tougher income eligibility requirements are potentially faced with paying full price for their drugs. Mr. Martin, thank you for your attention to this important matter. We greatly appreciate Gilead's continued commitment to developing new, more efficacious drugs for people living with HIV/AIDS. For over two decades, Gilead has been at the heart of advancing the health of the HIV/AIDS community. It is our sincere hope that Gilead will support our nation's ADAP by considering sustainable HIV/AIDS drug pricing in the commercial market – particularly for the Quad –, as well as supplemental price reductions and rebates, that bolster the ability of ADAPs nationwide to provide lifesaving drugs to all those in need. Thousands of people living with HIV/AIDS are depending on it. If you should you have any questions, or if we may be of any assistance, please do not hesitate to contact us. Sincerely, Alcee L. HastingsMember of Congress Eleanor Holmes NortonMember of Congress Corrine BrownMember of Congress Sam FarrMember of Congress Luis V. GutierrezMember of Congress Maxine WatersMember of Congress Lynn C. WoolseyMember of Congress Janice D. SchakowskyMember of Congress Raúl M. GrijalvaMember of Congress Maurice D. HincheyMember of Congress Lucille Roybal-AllardMember of Congress Debbie Wasserman SchultzMember of Congress Ted DeutchMember of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Rep._Hastings_-_Letter_to_Gilead_-_8.1.12.pdf
07.27.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) sent the following letter to Florida Governor Rick Scott expressing concern regarding the Tuberculosis (TB) outbreak in Florida. Joining Hastings in sending the letter were fellow Florida Democratic Representatives Corrine Brown (FL-3), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20), Ted Deutch (FL-19), Kathy Castor (FL-11), and Frederica Wilson (FL-17). (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter). July 27, 2012 The Honorable Rick ScottGovernorState of FloridaThe Capitol400 S. Monroe St.Tallahassee, FL 32399-0001 Dear Governor Scott, We write to express our concerns regarding the Tuberculosis (TB) outbreak in Florida. As you know, this outbreak originated in Duval County between late 2008 and early 2009, when a schizophrenic patient infected 17 others, most of whom were residents at an assisted living facility for the mentally ill. Half of those patients were infected with FL 046, a very rare and virulent strain of TB. While the number of TB cases throughout Florida has dropped, the number of individuals affected by the FL 046 strain has risen. This has been referred to as the worst TB outbreak in two decades by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). It has mainly affected homeless and mentally ill individuals residing in shelters or assisted living facilities. So far, the TB outbreak has been linked to 13 deaths and 99 illnesses, including six infected children. In addition, over 3,000 people may have been exposed to the strain. The severity of this outbreak led to the intervention of the CDC in 2009, and again in February 2012. Furthermore, we are aware that the state of Florida has asked the CDC for a $390,000 supplemental grant of which the CDC has designated $250,000. We understand that an additional request is contemplated for 2013 in order to help locate and treat people exposed to TB. While we commend the decision to involve the CDC, we are truly disconcerted that news of such an extensive and growing outbreak was not shared with the general public, as well as Florida lawmakers. Even more troubling, it was first revealed by the media only a few days after Florida's only TB hospital, A.G. Holley in Lantana, was closed. The hospital's closure was mandated in March 2012 by the Florida Legislature through the passing of a bill downsizing the Florida Department of Health. You signed the bill into law on April 27, 2012. As a result, half of the patients have been transferred to Jackson Memorial Hospital in Miami, while the remaining patients were released back into the general population. A.G. Holley was renowned for treating the toughest cases of TB in the state, both clinically and behaviorally. A.G. Holley's unique protocol for uncooperative and obstinate cases is still the standard for TB treatment and is recognized throughout the medical community. The closing of AG Holley represents a considerable loss of institutional knowledge. It is our understanding that state lawmakers were not briefed on the Duval TB outbreak at the time the bill was brought to the floor, and that it was never part of the discussion. We are also concerned that, as of today, the outbreak has not been fully contained. While the Florida Department of Health asserted that it is mostly contained within Duval County's homeless and mentally ill population, cases of infection with the FL 046 strain have been confirmed in 17 other counties, all across the state. Again, we are deeply concerned that in the midst of a TB outbreak, A.G. Holley was closed, and policymakers were not informed of the gravity of the situation. Public safety should be a top priority of your administration, therefore we ask that you immediately share your response plan with the Florida Congressional delegation outlining all pertinent details and implementation strategy regarding handling the outbreak and the closure of A.G. Holley. Additionally, we request that you answer for us, the following questions: - Which measures have you put in place to ensure that infected individuals are maintaining their routine medical regimen? - How many of the 3,000 potentially infected individuals have been identified and notified? - How many patients have been placed in motels, and why were they removed from the hospital setting? - Why were lawmakers not informed of the outbreak? - Who was made aware of the outbreak and when were they notified? - Is the Florida Department of Health able to ensure that the outbreak is being contained, considering that it has been ongoing since 2008, and cases of FL 046 have appeared outside of Duval County in other parts of the state? We urge your immediate attention to this critically important matter. Thank you for your consideration, and we look forward to your prompt response. Sincerely, Alcee L. HastingsMember of Congress Corrine BrownMember of Congress Debbie Wasserman SchultzMember of Congress Theodore E. DeutchMember of Congress Kathy CastorMember of Congress Frederica S. WilsonMember of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Letter_to_Governor_Scott_-_TB_Outbreak_7.27.12.pdf
07.23.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) will host a Democratic Florida Delegation meeting on HIV/AIDS on Thursday, July 26th at 8:30 a.m. in room 2212 of the Rayburn House Office Building. DETAILS: WHAT: Democratic Florida Delegation Meeting on HIV/AIDS WHEN: Thursday, July 26, 2012 at 8:30 a.m. WHERE: 2212 Rayburn House Office Building PANELISTS: Michael Weinstein, President and Co-Founder, AIDS Healthcare Foundation (AHF) Marylin Merida, Board President, The AIDS Institute Leisha McKinley-Beach, Southern Regional Coordinator, Black AIDS Institute Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.21.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in response to the recent funding announcement by Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius of more than $10 million for Ryan White community-based health clinics and $69 million for the state AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP): "For far too long, thousands of people living with HIV/AIDS all across the nation have been languishing on waiting lists for lifesaving antiretroviral treatment, with hundreds more having lost their eligibility due to cost-containment measures in certain states. That is why I applaud the announcement by the Obama administration and the Department of Health and Human Services making available nearly $80 million in much-needed emergency funding for the Ryan White Program and ADAP. These new grant awards will expand treatment and care to 14,000 new patients, eliminate ADAP waiting lists in 25 states and territories, including Florida, and help states and communities achieve the goals of the National HIV/AIDS Strategy. Furthermore, an additional $6 million in supplemental funding will be made available later this year for states that demonstrate ongoing need. "I commend President Obama for his continued leadership and commitment to increasing access to HIV care and reducing HIV-related health disparities. It is also important to remember that this is yet another example of comprehensive health care reform in action, as the expansion of HIV care and treatment to new patients is made possible, in part, by the Affordable Care Act. We have the knowledge and tools necessary to change the course of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, of which treatment is a vital part. Now more than ever, let us work together to ensure access to lifesaving drugs for all people living with HIV/AIDS and bring an end to the ADAP waiting lists once and for all." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.20.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in recognition of CenterLink: The Community of LGBT Centers, which the White House has honored as a "Champion of Change." The Champions of Change program was created as a part of President Obama's "Winning the Future" initiative. Each week, a different sector is highlighted and groups of champions, ranging from educators to entrepreneurs to community leaders, are recognized for the work they are doing to serve and strengthen their communities. "It is with great pride that I join the White House in recognizing CenterLink as a 'Champion of Change' for its tireless efforts to improve the lives of lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people in the South Florida community and all across the country. CenterLink's inspiring video entry in the LGBT Pride Month Video Challenge only scratches the surface of the tremendous work that its staff does each and every single day to support the growth of our nation's LGBT community centers. From providing leadership training and networking opportunities to building capacity and offering technical assistance to facilitating access to a wide variety of social services and resources, CenterLink helps empower the LGBT community both nationwide and around the world. "Furthermore, I would like to commend CenterLink for being a powerful voice for LGBT community centers in the advancement of LGBT equality. LGBT community centers play a vital role in our democracy, educating the public about key issues and giving their members an outlet through which to organize and engage policymakers for social change. CenterLink is a true example of communities hard at work and dedicated to ensuring that all Americans are guaranteed equal rights, regardless of their sexual orientation, gender identity, or gender expression. "I am honored to congratulate CenterLink on this extraordinary achievement, and am as committed as ever to doing my part in Congress to advance the rights of LGBT Americans." CenterLink was founded in 1994 as a member-based coalition to support the development of strong, sustainable LGBT community centers. Based in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, it serves over 200 LGBT community centers across the country in 46 states and the District of Columbia, as well as centers in Canada, Israel, Mexico, China, and Peru. CenterLink seeks to help build the capacity of centers to meet the social, cultural, health, and political advocacy needs of its LGBT community members. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.20.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement to welcome the XIX International AIDS Conference (AIDS 2012) to Washington, DC. AIDS 2012 will take place from July 22, 2012, through July 27, 2012, at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center in Washington, D.C. Organized by the International AIDS Society (IAS), AIDS 2012 is expected to convene more than 30,000 people from approximately 200 countries. Over the course of the Conference, the world's leading scientists, public health experts, policymakers, community leaders, and persons living with HIV/AIDS will chart the way forward in the global response to HIV/AIDS. "It is my great honor and privilege to welcome the XIX International AIDS Conference back to Washington, D.C. The III International AIDS Conference was held in our nation's capital in 1987, the same year that the United States established a policy barring HIV-positive foreigners from obtaining permanent immigration status or entering the United States without special waivers. As a result, no major scientific conferences on HIV/AIDS have been held in this country since – until now. "Thanks to years of advocacy by countless individuals and the leadership of former President George W. Bush and President Barack Obama, the misguided travel and immigration ban against people with HIV was lifted in 2010. This was a critical step forward in addressing societal stigma and discriminatory practices against people living with HIV/AIDS. "The return of the International AIDS Conference to the United States could not come at a more critical time. Here at home, more than one million people are living with HIV and approximately 50,000 individuals become newly infected with the virus each year. And among individuals living with HIV, one in five is unaware of his or her infection. This not only increases one's risk for developing worse health outcomes and unknowingly transmitting the virus to others, but undermines HIV prevention efforts as a whole. Furthermore, significant disparities persist across diverse communities and populations with regard to incidence, access to treatment, and health outcomes, particularly for men who have sex with men (MSM), African Americans and other minorities, women, and young people. "More than 30 years after the beginning of the epidemic, we are now at a point where we have the tools necessary to prevent the spread of HIV and bring an end to the crisis. The theme of AIDS 2012, 'Turning the Tide Together,' represents the challenge before us. In order to change the course of HIV/AIDS in the United States and abroad, we must harness the potential of the most recent scientific advances in HIV/AIDS treatment and biomedical prevention, continue research for a HIV vaccine and cure, and scale up effective, evidence-based interventions in key settings. "As the world's leader in HIV research and the largest funder of international AIDS programs, including the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) and the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis (TB), and Malaria, continued commitment by the United States to HIV/AIDS research, prevention, and treatment programs is crucial to improving global health. AIDS 2012 is a tremendous opportunity to further strengthen the role of the United States in global HIV/AIDS initiatives and focus attention on the devastating impact that HIV is having on different communities across the country. Therefore, I urge my colleagues in Congress to join me in welcoming the delegates and participants of AIDS 2012 to Washington, D.C., as well as commit to helping support a stronger international response to HIV/AIDS, advancing the health and rights of people living with HIV/AIDS, and working to create an 'AIDS-free generation.'" Congressman Hastings is a member of the Congressional HIV/AIDS Caucus and continues working to advance the health and rights of the HIV/AIDS community. In the 112th Congress, he introduced H.R. 1774, the Increasing Access to Voluntary Screening for HIV/AIDS and STIs Act of 2011, as well as H.Res. 713, a resolution that recognizes the importance of AIDS 2012. Additionally, Congressman Hastings supports robust funding for the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program, the AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP), the Minority HIV/AIDS Initiative, the National AIDS Strategy, the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), and other efforts to address the HIV/AIDS crisis in the United States and abroad. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.18.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement regarding the deadly attack on an Israeli tour bus in Bulgaria: "I was deeply saddened to learn of today's unconscionable attack on Israeli and Bulgarian tourists. This kind of senseless violence is an act of cowardice and hatred. It is yet another unnecessary reminder of the threats Israelis face both at home and abroad. "My thoughts and prayers go out to the families of the victims during this most difficult time. I stand with my friends in Israel and the Jewish community in praying for peace around the world. This tragic event reminds us all that there are still people who choose hate and intolerance over understanding and compassion. We must continue to stand side-by-side with Israel as it pursues a safe and secure future, and we must work together across all racial, religious, gender, and cultural lines and not allow these senseless acts to continue." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.13.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement praising the report released today by the Obama administration regarding the investments made in the restoration efforts for the Everglades: "With the Everglades making up a large portion of my Congressional district, I am acutely aware of the vital role restoration of this national treasure plays in the health and prosperity of South Florida. For far too long, we have seen these much needed efforts delayed and stalled. Since President Obama took office in 2009, I am pleased to report that a great deal of progress has been made to jumpstart these stalled projects and to give reconstruction efforts the support and attention they desperately need. "The President said he would make Everglades restoration a national priority, and he has delivered on this promise. As part of his America's Great Outdoors initiative, over $1.5 billion has been invested in Everglades projects, and President Obama has requested an additional $246 million in the Fiscal Year 2013 budget to further these initial investments. With these investments, construction began for the Tamiami Trail Bridge, over 3,000 acres of the Kissimee River's floodplains were restored, and the implementation of essential parts of the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan has begun. Through these efforts, 6,600 jobs have already been created and restoration projects will continue to create thousands of desperately needed jobs in the region. "While progress has been made on restoring the Everglades, we still have a long way to go to ensure that there is clean water for future generations of Floridians. We must continue to support and invest in this imperative restoration effort, which is not only essential for environmental reasons, but also provides major economic benefits to the South Florida economy. I remain committed to working with my colleagues in Congress and the administration to promote Everglades restoration to ensure the progress we have seen in the past three years continues." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.11.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement regarding H.R. 6079, the Repeal of Obamacare Act. Hastings voted against H.R. 6079 when it passed the House by a vote of 244-185. This Republican-sponsored bill repeals the Affordable Care Act, which has already expanded access to affordable, quality health care for millions of Americans, including: • 105 million Americans who no longer have a lifetime limit on their coverage; • Up to 17 million children with pre-existing conditions who can no longer be denied coverage by insurers; • 5.1 million seniors in the "donut hole" who have saved $3.2 billion on their prescription drugs, an average of $635 per senior; • 2.3 million seniors who had a free Annual Wellness Visit under Medicare; • 2,800 employers who took advantage of the retiree reinsurance program to help cover over 12 million retirees not yet eligible for Medicare; and • 360,000 small business employers who used the Small Business Health Care Tax Credit to help them afford health insurance for 2 million workers. "Here we are again, wasting our time on the 31st repeal measure in less than two years rather than focusing on much-needed jobs legislation. The Affordable Care Act was passed by the House of Representatives and the Senate, signed into law by the President, and upheld by the highest court in the land. Yet, the Republicans refuse to accept these facts. They also refuse to acknowledge the devastating affect a repeal of this law would have on the millions of Americans who are already benefiting from it. Additionally, millions more will benefit from the Affordable Care Act in the years to come, with the law being fully phased in by 2014. We should be working together to improve this landmark legislation to best serve the American people, not to repeal it for political gain. "I cannot comprehend why Republicans want to turn the clock back on the most comprehensive health care reform in our nation's history. How can denying coverage to the 6.6 million young adults who obtained health insurance through their parents' plan be a positive step for our health care system? How can denying 54 million Americans and 32.5 million seniors access to free preventive services be a good thing for the American people? And how can the Republicans justify preventing 13 million Americans from receiving $1 billion in rebates because their insurance company spent to much of their premiums on administrative costs or CEO bonuses and not enough on their care? The Republicans' so-called Repeal of Obamacare Act will cause more harm than good. Frankly, it should be called the Republicans-Don't-Care Act." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.10.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) sent the following letter to President Obama urging the administration to create a Haitian Family Reunification Parole Program. This program would allow Haitians with approved family based visa petitions to come to the United States while awaiting their visas. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter). July 10, 2012 The Honorable Barack ObamaPresident of the United StatesThe White House1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NWWashington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President, I write to express strong support for the creation of a Haitian Family Reunification Parole Program that would allow Haitians with approved family based visa petitions to come to the United States while they await their visas. As you know, there are approximately 112,000 Haitians with approved visa petitions who, because of arbitrary per country limits, are being forced to wait several years before they may legally join their families in the United States. Such a program is not unprecedented. In 2007, the Department of Homeland Security created a similar program for Cubans that has been renewed by your administration. I am simply asking that Haitians be afforded the same treatment. Haiti is only beginning to recover from the 2010 earthquake and is still plagued by a stagnant economy, crumbling infrastructure, and poor health conditions. Rather than languishing in the earthquake ravaged nation, many of those who will benefit from a family reunification program would be able to work and send back remittances which are vital to Haiti's recovery. These individuals have already had their petitions approved and have family willing and able to support them when they arrive in the United States. Additionally, over 15,000 of them are children and spouses of legal permanent residents. The creation of this program requires no congressional action and stands to improve the lives of thousands of Haitians. It is simply unjust to expect them to wait out this process in what remains a country in crisis. Once again, I urge you to create a Haitian Family Reunification Parole Program so that the thousands of Haitians who have already been approved can join their families in the United States and actively assist in Haiti's recovery. Thank you for consideration on this matter, and I look forward to working with you as we continue to assist our Haitian neighbors. Sincerely, Alcee L. HastingsMember of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Letter_to_Obama_-_Haitian_Family_Reunification_7-10-12.
07.06.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) will be a guest on Facing South Florida with Jim DeFede on Sunday, July 8, 2012 at 11:30 a.m. on CBS4. DETAILS: WHO: Congressman Alcee L. Hastings WHAT: Facing South Florida with Jim DeFede WHEN: Sunday, July 8, 2012 at 11:30 a.m. WHERE: CBS4 Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.06.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) will give welcoming remarks at a Congressional briefing on violence against the homeless on Tuesday, July 10th at 10:00 a.m. in room 2325 of the Rayburn House Office Building. The briefing is being sponsored by the National Coalition for the Homeless in cooperation with the Congressional Caucus on Homelessness, of which Congressman Hastings is a Co-Chair. DETAILS: WHO: Congressman Alcee L. Hastings WHAT: Congressional Briefing on Violence Against the Homeless WHEN: Tuesday, July 10, 2012 at 10:00 a.m. WHERE: 2325 Rayburn House Office Building PANELISTS: Ms. Maria Foscarinis, Founder and Executive Director, National Law Center on Homelessness & Poverty Mr. Richard Wierzbicki, Captain, Broward County Sheriff's Office Mr. David Pirtle, Formerly Homeless Victim of Violence MODERATOR: Mr. Neil Donovan, Executive Director, National Coalition for the Homeless Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.29.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) announced the introduction of H.Res. 713, expressing support for the XIX International AIDS conference (AIDS 2012) and the goal of bringing renewed awareness of, and commitment to, addressing the HIV/AIDS crisis in the United States and abroad. AIDS 2012 will take place from July 22, 2012, through July 27, 2012, at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center in Washington, D.C. Organized by the International AIDS Society (IAS), AIDS 2012 is expected to convene more than 20,000 delegates from nearly 200 countries, including 2,000 journalists. (Please find attached a copy of the resolution.) "For over 25 years, the International AIDS Conference has brought together the world's leading scientists, public health experts, policymakers, community leaders, and persons living with HIV/AIDS in order to address the major issues facing the global response to HIV/AIDS and facilitate a collective strategy forward. AIDS 2012 is a tremendous opportunity to further strengthen the role of the United States in global HIV/AIDS initiatives and focus attention on the devastating impact that HIV is having on different communities across the country. Furthermore, this year's conference is of particular significance, as it represents the return of the International AIDS Conference to the United States after a misguided travel and immigration ban against people with HIV was lifted in 2010. "This resolution recognizes the importance of AIDS 2012 in the global effort to end the HIV/AIDS pandemic and create an 'AIDS-free generation.' It also supports a stronger international response to HIV/AIDS that seeks to foster greater scientific and programmatic collaborations around the world in order to prevent the transmission of HIV, increase access to testing, treatment, and care, and improve health outcomes for all people living with HIV/AIDS. In addition, my resolution maintains that protecting human rights, advancing sexual and reproductive health and rights, and addressing stigma, poverty, and other societal challenges are key to overcoming HIV/AIDS, while encouraging the ongoing development of innovative therapies and advances in clinical treatment for HIV/AIDS in the public and private sectors. "Continued commitment by the United States to HIV/AIDS research, prevention, and treatment programs is crucial to protecting global health. We are closer to a future without HIV/AIDS today than ever before. Working together with all stakeholders throughout the international community, we have the means to change the course of the crisis and bring an end to HIV/AIDS once and for all. What we need now is leadership and solidarity." Congressman Hastings is a member of the Congressional HIV/AIDS Caucus and continues working to support policies and legislation that address barriers to HIV testing and access to care. In the 112th Congress, he introduced H.R. 1774, the Increasing Access to Voluntary Screening for HIV/AIDS and STIs Act of 2011, which establishes a broad policy for voluntary HIV/AIDS and STI screening that focuses on at-risk and historically underrepresented communities. Additionally, Congressman Hastings supports robust funding for the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program, the AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP), the Minority HIV/AIDS Initiative, the National AIDS Strategy, the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), and other efforts to address the HIV/AIDS crisis in the United States and abroad. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### H.Res._713.pdf
06.28.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in response to the Supreme Court's ruling on the constitutionality of the Affordable Care Act. The Court upheld the majority of the law, including the individual mandate, by a 5-4 vote. "The Supreme Court's ruling today is a real victory for the American people. This decision upholds the principle that all Americans should have access to affordable, quality health care. "Millions of Americans have already benefited from this important piece of legislation. From the 6.6 million young adults who have been able to stay on their parents' insurance to the more than 17.6 million children who can no longer be denied coverage. Additionally, 3.25 million seniors in 2011 and 14 million in 2012 have taken advantage of one or more of the free preventative services, while 360,000 small business owners have utilized the Small Business Health Care Tax Credit to help them provide insurance to 2 million workers. This legislation has been and will continue to make a major difference in our nation's health care system. "I have always advocated for access to universal health care with a public option. With the Affordable Care Act, we have taken a huge step towards putting patients and their doctors, rather than big insurance companies, in charge of an individual's health care decisions. While I am pleased that this important legislation was upheld by the Supreme Court, there is still work to be done. I hope that my Republican colleagues will now do their part and end their partisan attacks by putting the interests of Americans' health care needs first." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.28.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the passage by the House of Representatives of a Republican resolution to hold Attorney General Holder in contempt of Congress: "It is contemptuous that Republicans decided to cast a stain on this institution by finding the United States Attorney General in contempt of Congress. No Cabinet official in the history of this country has ever been held in contempt. I warned yesterday that if we did this, history will judge us harshly. And it will. "Brian Terry, a U.S. law enforcement agent, was killed. That is a terrible tragedy for his family and our country. I am eternally grateful to those law enforcement officials who put their lives on the line to protect the nation. However, this vote today was not about what happened to Agent Terry. It was political, plain and simple. "We need to address the doubling of student loan interest rates in this country, and yet, Republicans have made it their priority to pass a measure that does nothing to help struggling Americans. Our nation's transportation infrastructure is in serious need of repair, and yet, we have not passed a long-term surface transportation reauthorization bill. Americans need jobs to pay their bills, provide for their families, and keep their homes. And yet, House Republicans believe that our time is better spent playing politics with this contempt vote, rather than actually creating jobs for the millions of Americans who are out of work. "Today's vote was nothing more than a partisan political circus and House Republicans should be ashamed of themselves." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.27.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in observation of the 18th Annual National HIV Testing Day, a joint initiative between the National Association of People With AIDS (NAPWA) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to promote HIV testing: "Although HIV/AIDS knows no borders, race, or gender, it has taken a particularly devastating toll on South Florida. Since 2008, areas in my Congressional district have experienced the highest rate of HIV-infection per-capita in the nation, with new HIV infections rising by 25 percent over the past year and new AIDS cases also increasing significantly. Furthermore, HIV/AIDS continues to have a disparate impact on certain groups, including men who have sex with men (MSM) and racial and ethnic minorities. "It is clear that we must do more to encourage HIV testing and end the pervasive stigma associated with HIV/AIDS. The unfortunate fact remains that many individuals and communities do not talk about HIV/AIDS. We cannot hope to eliminate the stigma and reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS if we do not break the silence. "HIV/AIDS can happen to anyone, but we have the power to stop HIV and create an AIDS-free generation. It all begins with getting tested for HIV to find out your status and using this knowledge to take better care of yourself, your loved ones, and your community. Regular HIV testing has been proven to save lives and reduce new infections. Together with effective, evidence-based policies that address barriers to HIV testing and access to treatment and care, we know that we can overcome HIV/AIDS." Congressman Hastings is a member of the Congressional HIV/AIDS Caucus and continues working to support policies and legislation that address barriers to HIV testing and access to care. In the 112th Congress, he introduced H.R. 1774, the Increasing Access to Voluntary Screening for HIV/AIDS and STIs Act of 2011, which establishes a broad policy for voluntary HIV/AIDS and STI screening that focuses on at-risk and historically underrepresented communities. Additionally, Congressman Hastings supports robust funding for the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program, the AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP), the Minority HIV/AIDS Initiative, the National AIDS Strategy, and other efforts to address the HIV/AIDS crisis in the United States and abroad. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.27.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement honoring the life of Dr. Calvin Hylton Shirley: "I am truly honored to recognize the life and legacy of an outstanding human being. Dr. Calvin Hylton (Kappa) Shirley passed away on June 23, 2012 at the age of 91. He was my doctor and great friend. "Dr. Shirley was born on January 28, 1921, grew up in Pensacola, Florida and graduated from Florida A&M University. He served as a Navy corpsman in the Pacific during World War II, and went on to earn his degree from Boston College of Physicians and Surgeons. "Dr. Shirley was an accomplished physician who specialized in the fields of obstetrics and family practice. He was among the first black doctors to work in Broward County, starting the historic Provident Hospital in Fort Lauderdale, which was the first medical facility in the city for blacks. Dr. Shirley served there for 54 years and delivered over 6,000 babies. In 1949, he established his own practice, and allowed those who could not pay for his services to offer him crops as payment. Dr. Shirley was a man who lived by his principles, stating that, 'A good doctor is one who is concerned with giving service, as opposed to one who's only concerned with the almighty dollar.' "In addition to his outstanding service to the community, Dr. Shirley paved the way for African Americans in the medical community. He was one of the first four black physicians in Broward County to have his own medical practice. He was also the first medical advisor to the Sickle Cell Foundation. Furthermore, Dr. Shirley was the first and only black physician to receive the coveted Heideman Memorial Doctor of the Year award, and serve on the Executive Board of the Florida State Health Planning Council as well as serve on the staff of Broward General Hospital. He was also the first black obstetrician-gynecologist in Broward County and the first black staff physician at Broward Health Medical Center. "On top of his professional career, Dr. Shirley was affiliated with many organizations rooted in the South Florida community. He was one of the founding members and first Polemarch of the Fort Lauderdale Alumni Chapter of Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity, Inc., an organization of which I am a proud member. Additionally, Dr. Shirley was a 32nd Degree Mason, a Shriner of Kazah Temple 149, and a member of Sigma Pi Phi Fraternity of Alpha Rho Boule. "My chief of staff Art Kennedy, also a Kappa with Dr. Shirley and myself, remembers him fondly, 'Brother Shirley was always a gentleman, very cool and calm, and he loved Kappa.' "I would like to take this opportunity to offer my sincere condolences to all those who have been impacted by the loss of such a great man. My thoughts and prayers are with Dr. Shirley's family and friends during this most difficult time. He was a tremendous individual who selflessly dedicated his life to helping all those around him, and he will be dearly missed." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.26.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (FL-23) joined Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-18) in introducing a resolution congratulating the Miami Heat on its 2012 National Basketball Association (NBA) Championship. Joining Hastings and Ros-Lehtinen as original cosponsors of the resolution are fellow South Florida colleagues Reps. Ted Deutch (FL-19), Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-21), David Rivera (FL-25), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-20), Allen B. West (FL-22), and Frederica S. Wilson (FL-17). (Please find attached a copy of the resolution). "As a loyal Miami Heat fan, it is a great honor to join my colleague Congresswoman Ros-Lehtinen in congratulating the team on its 2012 NBA Championship," said Rep. Hastings. "Led by the Big Three, Dwyane Wade, LeBron James, and Chris Bosh all had impressive games. But the championship would not have been possible without the assistance of the entire Heat team and staff, led by Coach Erik Spoelstra. I also would like to salute the Heat for being champions both on and off the court. The Heat has multiple charitable programs and events which greatly benefit the entire South Florida community. While I congratulate the members of the Heat on their Championship, I also thank them for this continued dedication and involvement in our community." "I am thrilled by the overwhelming victory of the Miami Heat to become the 2012 NBA Champions," said Rep. Ros-Lehtinen. "The Heat dominated the game from the very start and its win captured the hearts of South Florida fans. This Congressional Resolution will express the gratitude of the Congress for the team effort of the players, coaching staff and everyone else who worked so hard to bring the NBA Championship to Miami once again. The Miami Heat has proven that through hard work, dedication and perseverance, anything can be achieved. I am also thankful that the Miami Heat organization has remained committed to giving back to the South Florida community. Congratulations once again to our hometown team, the Miami Heat!" The Miami Heat defeated the Oklahoma City Thunder in Game 5 on June 21, 2012 by a score of 121-106 to win the 2012 NBA Championship. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### HEAT_Resolution_6.26.12.pdf
06.25.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in response to the United States Supreme Court's ruling on the Arizona immigration law: "I am pleased that the Court struck down three of the four provisions at stake in this divisive law. While our nation's immigration system is in desperate need of reform, enacting patchwork policies that conflict with existing federal laws and Constitutional rights is not the solution. "I was disappointed, however, to see the Court uphold one of the law's most controversial provisions, requiring law enforcement officials to check the status of persons that they arrest if they suspect them of being in the country illegally. This provision sets a dangerous precedent for profiling and discrimination throughout the nation. While we do need to address the illegal immigration problems in our country, directing law enforcement officials to become involved in immigration issues may lead to a rift between legal immigrant populations and communities and local and state law enforcement. This rift could hinder their ability to investigate dangerous criminal activity. The U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officers are already properly trained and in a better position than local and state officers when it comes to involvement in these complex immigration matters. "As such, I will continue to work in Congress to address our nation's immigration issues in a comprehensive manner, which does not promote discriminatory policies." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.25.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in response to the Supreme Court ruling to dismiss Montana's attempt to limit campaign contributions in state elections: "I am deeply disappointed that the Supreme Court once again decided to uphold the misguided Citizens United ruling in its dismissal of Montana's election spending limitations. The Citizens United decision fundamentally changed the way that we elect our public officials, by allowing an influx of money in the political process. Over the past two years, we have witnessed the negative impact that this ruling has had on our electoral process, which has allowed anonymous, wealthy special interest groups to overshadow the voice of average Americans. Campaigns bankrolled by enormous amounts of funding that come attached with agendas unknown to the public are not conducive to a democratic process. It is disheartening to see the Court continue to expand this undemocratic law. "As a staunch supporter of free, fair, and democratic elections, I will continue to advocate for legislation limiting these corporate contributions. Elected officials represent people, not corporations, and I will do everything I can to preserve this right." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.18.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) will host a Democratic Florida Delegation meeting to highlight the importance of national parks to Florida and the nation. The meeting will be held on Wednesday, June 20th at 9:30 a.m. in room 2226 of the Rayburn House Office Building. DETAILS: WHAT: Democratic Florida Delegation Meeting on National Parks WHEN: Wednesday, June 20, 2012 at 9:30 a.m. WHERE: 2226 Rayburn House Office Building, Washington, D.C. SPEAKERS: Shannon Estenoz, Director, Office of Everglades Restoration Initiatives, United States Department of the Interior Thomas Van Lent, Senior Scientist, The Everglades Foundation Craig Obey, Vice President of Government Affairs, National Park Conservation Association Audrey Peterman, Author/Consultant Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.18.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in recognition of National Pollinator Week. This year marks its sixth anniversary, which is celebrated from June 18-24, 2012. "As the co-founder of the Congressional Pollinator Protection Caucus, I am proud to recognize National Pollinator Week. Seventy-five percent of all flowering plants rely on animals and insects like butterflies, bats, birds, and most importantly bees to move pollen from one plant to another and promote fertilization. Not only do pollinators play a critical role in the reproductive cycle of plants, but they also provide significant benefits to all of us. "Much of the food consumed every single day in the United States and around the world is a direct result of insect pollination. Plants grown for food, medicine, and even certain fabrics require the help of pollinators. In fact, every third bite of food eaten is made possible by these pollinators, as well as billions of dollars worth of commodities produced and sold in the U.S. alone. "Due to a number of factors, however, pollinators are struggling for survival. The recent decline in both the health and population of pollinators around the world is a major threat to not only biodiversity and the ecosystem, but also our health and well-being. National Pollinator Week is a necessary and important opportunity to address the urgent decline of pollinator populations and what must be done to ensure that they are preserved and protected." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.15.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the Obama administration's announcement of a deferred action process for young people who are low enforcement priorities: "I commend the administration for finally taking meaningful steps toward a more rational, humane approach to immigration enforcement. "Rather than wasting limited resources deporting productive, hard-working young people, we should focus our efforts on those individuals who pose a threat to our national security and public safety. "These young people came to this country through no choice of their own and are being forced to pay the price for decisions that weren't theirs to make. They have been educated in our schools, they have become valued members of our communities, and they stand to make a positive impact on our nation's future. They epitomize the American Dream, and deportation is not only a loss for them, but a loss to our country as a whole. "As a proud supporter of the DREAM Act, I recognize that this Executive Order does not go far enough. Congress must do its job and finally pass the DREAM Act as well comprehensive legislation to reform our broken immigration system." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.13.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) will participate in a roundtable discussion with Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary Shaun Donovan at Consolidated Credit Services, Inc. in Plantation, Florida. The event will be held on Friday, June 15th from 10:30 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. The focus of the roundtable will be the refinancing proposal recently announced by President Obama, which will help responsible homeowners who have been underwater on their mortgage take advantage of refinancing at historically low interest rates. DETAILS: WHO: Congressman Alcee L. Hastings and HUD Secretary Shaun Donovan WHAT: Housing Roundtable WHEN: Friday, June 15, 2012 from 10:30 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. WHERE: Consolidated Credit Services, Inc. (5701 W. Sunrise Blvd – Plantation, Florida) Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.07.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced the Stopping Non-Native Animals from Killing Endangered Species (SNAKES) Act. This legislation would implement a pilot program utilizing specially trained dogs to detect Burmese pythons, and other non-native constrictor reptiles that are ravaging native wildlife throughout the Everglades. (Please find below a copy of the legislation). “The Florida Everglades, one of the world’s largest wetland systems and one of America’s most precious ecosystems, is under attack by the Burmese python and other large constrictor snakes. It is estimated to now hold tens of thousands of pythons that are devastating natural wildlife and endangered species living in the Everglades. In some instances, mammal populations are down 90 percent from just a few years ago. “Auburn University EcoDogs, working along with federal, state, county, tribal government entities, universities, and non-profit stakeholders, recently trained dogs for a study to assess whether detection dogs were an effective tool for python management efforts. As it turned out, dog search teams can cover more distance and have a higher accuracy rate in particular scenarios than human searchers. The SNAKES Act authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to work with stakeholders to establish this detection program full-time. “Once the dog indicates that a snake is in the area, it is taken a safe distance away while a human handler captures the snake. This way, the dogs never approach the snakes and are never placed in a position of danger. This dog detection team is a great tool that can help prevent what has happened in the Everglades from happening elsewhere in the United States, as well as assist in containing the snakes populations that are already out there. I urge my colleagues in Congress to support this legislation, and help to protect and restore one of the most unique natural ecosystems.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### SNAKES_Act_Legislation.pdf
06.07.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in honor of Mrs. Helen R. Henderson from Pahokee, FL on the occasion of her 100th birthday, which is June 8th: “I rise today to honor Mrs. Helen R. Henderson from Pahokee, Florida on the occasion of her 100th birthday, which is June 8th. Born in Kentucky, Mrs. Henderson was raised on her family’s farm. From her earliest days, she learned the value of a healthy diet, eating the food her family raised. Her life has been characterized by hard work, dedication, compassion, and inner strength. “Helen and her late husband, Brooks Henderson, devoted their lives to education in the Glades area, with Brooks serving as the principal of Pahokee High School, and Helen working as a special needs elementary education teacher in Belle Glade and Canal Point. Helen began her love for learning at a young age when she traveled six miles by horse and buggy to attend her one-room schoolhouse in Kentucky. Sadly, the Henderson’s only child, Ann, passed away several years ago, but their love of education was passed down to their grandson, Kevin Henderson, an instructor at Palm Beach State College in Belle Glade. “An accomplished musician, Helen has played piano at her church, First United Methodist of Pahokee, for over 60 years. A lifelong follower of Jesus Christ, she has taught Sunday school to several generations of Pahokee children. She still faithfully attends Sunday school and worship service each week. She still lives in her own home in Pahokee, where she enjoys spending time with friends, participating in church activities, and working in her yard. Helen says the secret to her longevity is hard work and eating right. “Mrs. Helen Henderson is a fine citizen, and I am proud that she continues to make a positive impact on the Glades community. I am delighted to join her family, friends and many admirers in wishing her a very happy 100th birthday and continued good health and happiness for years to come.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.06.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in response to the news that Governor Rick Scott is refusing federal demands to stop the purging of Florida’s voter rolls: “As I have said from the beginning, this is a concerted collaborative effort led by the Governor to suppress and confuse voters. It is not transparent and a clear violation of the law. “Never before have these voter suppression efforts been so blatant, widespread, and systematic. Republicans are attacking one of the most fundamental rights of our democracy: the right to vote. We cannot sit idly by and allow our voices to be silenced. “I call upon the U.S. Department of Justice to seek an injunction and stop the purge. “It is absolutely insane what Governor Scott is doing to attack Florida voters. We know what he is up to, we are mad as hell, and we will not allow our voting rights to be trampled on.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.01.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in recognition of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) Pride Month: "I would like to take this opportunity to wish all my friends throughout the LGBT community 'Happy Pride.' This year marks the 43rd anniversary of the Stonewall Riots, which gave rise to the modern LGBT rights movement in the United States and around the world. Each June, we commemorate this ongoing struggle for equality by celebrating LGBT Pride Month. "It is indeed a historic time for our nation and the American people. From the passage of the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act, to the repeal of 'Don't Ask, Don't Tell,' to President Obama's support of marriage equality, we have made great strides in ensuring that our laws protect all Americans, regardless of their sexual orientation, gender identity, or gender expression. These advances would not have been possible without the continued courage, leadership, and sacrifices of countless individuals, LGBT and straight alike. "As we reflect on how far we have come, we must not let the pages of history turn backwards on equality in this country. Whether accessing benefits as a committed couple, working to provide for their family, going to school, protecting our country, or growing older, all Americans deserve to be treated with dignity and respect. That is why it is critical that we move forward with repealing the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA), passing the Employment Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA), and bringing an end to other discriminatory practices such as the bullying of our youth. "I am truly proud to recognize the countless contributions that the LGBT community has made in strengthening and enriching the fabric of our nation. While we continue to face ongoing challenges to equal rights for all Americans, let us be emboldened in our efforts, knowing that discrimination, bigotry, and hate have no place in our country's laws. This LGBT Pride Month, I reaffirm my pledge to continue working with my colleagues in Congress to achieve equal rights for all LGBT Americans." Click here to view Congressman Hastings' video statement on LGBT Pride Month. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.01.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in response to recent actions taken by the Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Florida State Association of Supervisors of Elections regarding Governor Scott's misguided attempt to purge Florida's voting roles and disenfranchise eligible voters: "I applaud the Department of Justice for calling on Governor Scott to suspend the voter purge, as well as the Florida State Association of Supervisors of Elections' subsequent decision to stop processing the flawed list used to implement the purge. This was a concerted, collaborative effort led by the Governor to suppress and confuse voters. It was not transparent and a clear violation of the law. I, along with many others in Florida, have fought for the right to vote. To have somebody come along as a 'Scotty come lately' and decide that he is going to suppress the rights of voters is absolutely insane. "Furthermore, I was pleased to see that a key provision of Governor Scott's egregious election law overhaul was struck down by a federal judge yesterday. This provision imposed overly burdensome restrictive requirements on voter registration groups, suppressing their efforts to bring more voters to the polls. "I hope that Governor Scott will heed these warnings and cease his continued attacks on one of the most fundamental rights of our democracy: the right to vote." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.31.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) will be discussing voter suppression in Florida on the Ed Schultz Radio Show today, Thursday, May 31, 2012 at 2:30 p.m. The interview will be live streamed at www.wegoted.com/listen. DETAILS: WHO: Congressman Alcee L. Hastings WHAT: Discussing Voter Suppression in Florida WHEN: Thursday, May 31, 2012 at 2:30 p.m. WHERE: The Ed Schultz Radio Show (www.wegoted.com/listen) Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.31.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings joins Breon Callins (left) and Goldie Brown (right) during the Congressional Caucus on Foster Youth's Shadow Day on Capitol Hill. Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) participated in the first-ever Shadow Day on Capitol Hill for foster youth. Hastings was shadowed by Breon Callins from Broward County, Florida and Goldie Brown from Washington, D.C. "I genuinely enjoyed having Breon and Goldie spend the day with me," said Congressman Hastings. "These two young men are shining examples of the great advocates that former foster youth can be for issues facing the child welfare system. Having experienced the foster care system first-hand, they bring much needed awareness to policymakers like myself on what works and does not work in the system. I hope they learned as much from this experience as I learned from them as we continue to work to strengthen the foster care system." "It has been fun and interesting learning about the different things Members do," said Breon Callins about this experience. "It is nice to know that we have good people taking care of all the people. I think it is great that they are getting more people involved in the process." "This was a powerful experience," Goldie Brown remarked. "It is great to learn that the Congressman is concerned about different issues, both domestically and internationally, and especially his interest in foster youth and education." Hosted by the Congressional Caucus on Foster Youth, the Shadow Day on Capitol Hill allowed current and former foster youth from across the nation to spend the day accompanying Members of Congress in an effort to help them understand the inner workings of the House of Representatives, learn about the legislative initiatives related to foster care, and share their stories with policymakers. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.30.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) will be participating in the first-ever Shadow Day on Capitol Hill for foster youth, which will be held tomorrow, Thursday, May 31st. Hosted by the Congressional Caucus on Foster Youth, current and former foster youth from across the nation will spend the day accompanying Members of Congress in an effort to help them understand the inner workings of the House of Representatives, learn about the legislative initiatives related to foster care, and share their stories with policymakers. Hastings will be shadowed by Breon Callins of Florida and Goldie Brown of Washington, D.C. "I am honored to be participating in the first-ever Shadow Day on Capitol Hill for foster youth. This will be a great opportunity not only for these youth to better understand the policy process and government, but also for them to have their stories heard by policymakers. "These current and former foster youth have the insight and experience to enlighten us on how to better address the issues and challenges faced by children in the foster care system. In April, I was proud to host a stop of the Congressional Caucus on Foster Youth's nationwide listening tour, where former and current foster youth opened many eyes and ears with their stories. "I believe that these youth can become instruments for change. Getting foster youth involved in the policy process through initiatives such as Shadow Day allows them to do just that so that we can strengthen the child welfare system and improve the overall well-being of youth and families." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.29.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) will host a Democratic Florida Delegation meeting to highlight the importance of Medicare to Florida, and the impact of Medicare changes on Florida's beneficiaries. The meeting will be held on Thursday, May 31st at 8:30 a.m. in room 304 of the Cannon House Office Building. DETAILS: WHO: Representatives Alcee L. Hastings, Corrine Brown, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Kathy Castor, Ted Deutch, and Frederica Wilson WHAT: Democratic Florida Delegation Meeting on Medicare WHEN: Thursday, May 31, 2012 at 8:30 a.m. WHERE: 304 Cannon House Office Building, Washington, D.C. SPEAKERS: Juliette Cubanski, Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation Diane Lifsey, National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare Rich Fiesta, Alliance for Retired Americans Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.28.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (FL-23) and Congressman Ted Deutch (FL-19) will be joined by an American citizen and war hero targeted by Governor Rick Scott's misguided, hurried effort to purge Florida's voter rolls of suspected illegally registered voters in advance of the 2012 elections. The press conference will be held on Tuesday, May 29th at 11:00 a.m. outside the Pine Island Ridge Clubhouse in Davie, Florida. DETAILS: WHO: Representatives Alcee L. Hastings and Ted Deutch WHAT: Press Conference with Voter Wrongly Placed on Voter Purge List WHEN: Tuesday, May 29, 2012 at 11:00 a.m. WHERE: Outside the Pine Island Ridge Clubhouse (9400 Pine Ridge Drive, Davie, Florida) Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.28.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement commemorating Memorial Day, which is observed on Monday, May 28th: "As we celebrate Memorial Day, let us honor those men and women who have died serving the United States Armed Forces. Their courage and sacrifice for this nation have allowed all Americans the rights and freedoms we hold dear. "It also a time to recognize and thank our veterans for their service, as well as those brave men and women in uniform who are stationed around the globe protecting our homeland. America would not be where it is today without their unwavering commitment, and I wish to convey my profound respect and admiration to those who have sacrificed, and continue to do so in the in the name of freedom. "In Congress, I will continue to fight for veterans' rights, as well as the rights of our troops and their families. Whether it be acknowledging the unrecognized sacrifices of Jewish War Veterans or granting each solider returning home from the battlefield the benefits they rightly deserve, I am committed to honoring and supporting our service members and veterans. These men and women embody the promise of our great nation, and I thank them from the bottom of my heart for their service to America." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.25.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement regarding the upcoming 2012 hurricane season, which will begin on the first of June: "With hurricane season rapidly approaching, it is never too early to start planning. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) predicts a 70 percent chance of between 9 to 15 named storms in 2012. The threat of these destructive and often unpredictable storms poses significant danger to our communities and therefore it is critically important that all Floridians adequately prepare. "I continue to work closely with federal, state, and local agencies, as well as with my colleagues in Congress, to ensure that the necessary resources will be available and ready to respond in the event of a natural disaster. In particular, I continue to push for much-needed reform as it relates to prioritizing power restoration, debris removal, the availability of local generators, and ensuring temporary housing for those who become displaced. "Please feel free to call my Ft. Lauderdale office at 954-733-2800 or Delray Beach office at 561-243-7042 with any concerns or questions that you may have regarding this upcoming hurricane season. I also invite you to visit my official web site at www.alceehastings.house.gov, where I have provided additional information and resources to help you prepare for this year's hurricane season." Below you will find some emergency numbers to help you prepare for hurricane season: • FEMA (Federal Emergency Management Agency) Registration: 1-800-621-FEMA (3362) • State of Florida Emergency Information (FEIL) 24-hour Hotline: 1-800-342-3557 • State Volunteer and Donations Hotline: 1-800-FL-HELP1 (354-3571) • American Red Cross: 1-800-HELP-NOW (435-7669) / Assistance: 1-866-GET-INFO (438-4636) • Florida Department of Elder Affairs: 1-800-96-ELDER (3-5337) • Florida Power and Light: 1-800-4-OUTAGE (68-8243) • Florida Department of Financial Services Storm Helpline: 1-800-22-STORM (7-8676) • Attorney General Pam Bondi's Gouging Hotline: 1-866-966-7226 • Agricultural and Consumer Services Price Gouging Hotline: 1-800-HELP-FLA (435-7352) Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.20.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in recognition of the International AIDS Candlelight Memorial, which is observed annually on the third Sunday in May to raise awareness about HIV/AIDS. Coordinated by the Global Network of People living with HIV, it is one of the world's oldest and largest grassroots mobilization campaigns for HIV awareness in the world. The International AIDS Candlelight Memorial was started in 1983 and is led by a coalition of some 1,200 community organizations in 115 countries. "Bringing an end to HIV/AIDS remains one of the greatest public health challenges of our time. Over the past 30 years, more than 22 million people have died due to HIV/AIDS-related illness. And currently, more than 33 million people are living with HIV/AIDS worldwide. "The International AIDS Candlelight Memorial seeks to honor the memories of all those who have lost their lives to HIV/AIDS while raising social consciousness about the disease. Despite the advent of anti-retroviral drug regimens and other lifesaving advances in treatment and care, social and structural barriers such as poverty, stigma, and discrimination continue to obstruct access to these services for individuals and communities. In fact, it is estimated that there are about nine million people around the world living with HIV who are still in need of treatment and do not have access. "Simply put, we cannot hope to end the HIV/AIDS crisis unless we prevent the transmission of the virus and ensure equal access to testing and treatment, evidence-based prevention, and care and support. In particular, we must address the needs of at-risk groups, including vulnerable children and young people, communities of color, and men who have sex with men (MSM), as well as related challenges such as hepatitis and other sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and other contributing social and economic factors. Furthermore, we must continue to promote the rights of individuals living with HIV/AIDS by supporting legislation and policies that protect them against stigma and discrimination. "As a member of the Congressional HIV/AIDS Caucus, I have led and supported various initiatives to increase access to prevention, testing, and treatment services here at home and abroad. In the 112th Congress, I introduced H.R. 1774, the Increasing Access to Voluntary Screening for HIV/AIDS and STIs Act, which establishes a broad coverage policy for voluntary HIV/AIDS and STIs screening that focuses on at-risk and historically underrepresented communities. Furthermore, I continue to support robust funding for the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR). "I am pleased to join the international HIV/AIDS community in recognizing this important event. The International AIDS Candlelight Memorial is a testament to the power of grassroots advocates and communities to effect positive policy change. Together, we can raise awareness about HIV/AIDS, combat stigma and discrimination, and give hope to new generations." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.18.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement regarding HIV Vaccine Awareness Day, which is observed annually on May 18th to educate the public about HIV prevention and recognize the efforts of volunteers, community members, health professionals, and scientists to find a vaccine for HIV: "HIV/AIDS has affected millions of people here at home and around the world for far too long. HIV Vaccine Awareness Day serves as a reminder that we cannot bring an end to HIV/AIDS until we find a way to prevent the transmission of the virus. While a cure for AIDS does not currently exist, I am hopeful that one will be obtainable in the near future. Until then, we need to utilize and expand methods that have been proven to reduce the spread of HIV, namely prevention and treatment. "It is critically important that we continue to support programs dedicated to preventing and treating HIV, such as the AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP), syringe exchange programs, and initiatives to increase public awareness and access to screening and treatment services. Furthermore, we must continue to fund HIV/AIDS research, including efforts to develop a vaccine for HIV and find a cure for AIDS. A preventive vaccine for HIV would help prevent infection in individuals who do not already have HIV. "Of the 1.2 million people living with HIV/AIDS in the United States, one in five individuals is unaware of their infection. Therefore, screening remains a vital tool in our comprehensive strategy to prevent and treat HIV/AIDS. That is why I introduced H.R. 1774, the Increasing Access to Voluntary Screening for HIV/AIDS and STIs Act, which establishes a broad coverage policy for voluntary HIV/AIDS and sexually transmitted infection (STI) screening that focuses on at-risk and historically underrepresented communities. "It is also encouraging to hear that last week a Federal Drug Administration (FDA) advisory panel recommended the use of a certain HIV drug as an additional preventive measure for at-risk individuals who are uninfected with HIV. In addition, an FDA advisory panel backed earlier this week the use of an over-the-counter, in-home HIV test. These developments further empower individuals to protect their health and the health of others. "HIV Vaccine Awareness Day is a way to highlight the dire need for an HIV vaccine and honor those who are working to create a generation free of HIV/AIDS. In Congress, I will continue to do my part in this endeavor and support robust funding for HIV vaccine research, as well as for ADAP, the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program, the Minority HIV/AIDS Initiative, and the National AIDS Strategy. Now more than ever before, I believe that we have the power to end this crisis once and for all." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.18.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in recognition of National Foster Care Month, which is observed each May to raise awareness about the challenges that are faced by children in the foster care system: "Every year, nearly 30,000 young adults leave the foster care system at the age of 18 without the support of a permanent family. As these young people transition out of the system, they are at a higher risk for unemployment, poor educational opportunities, health issues, increased rates of incarceration, and homelessness. "I am honored to be involved in recognizing the tireless efforts of individuals working to improve the foster care system and in shedding light on the needs of foster youth. Approximately 400,000 American children are in need of safe and permanent homes because their own families are facing a crisis and are unable to care for them. The issues faced by young people in the foster care system and those coming out of it deeply concerns me. This is why I have been continually involved in raising awareness of issues facing the child welfare system for a number of years. "Last month, I was proud to host a stop of the Congressional Caucus on Foster Youth's nationwide listening tour where we learned first-hand about the challenges and successes of Florida's child welfare system from government officials, child welfare advocates, as well as current and former foster youth. My membership in the Caucus, along with my work with programs such as Angels in Adoption, have made me better aware of not only the problems facing the foster care system, but also the many people who have dedicated their lives to making it better. I am truly proud of the work being done in my Congressional district, and applaud the efforts of the countless individuals across the nation working to give foster youth a voice." National Foster Care Month is an effort to raise awareness about the issues and challenges faced by children in the foster care system. The campaign encourages all citizens, from every walk of life, to become involved, whether as volunteers, foster or adoptive parents, mentors, or employers, so that all children can have safe, loving, and permanent homes. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.16.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) sent the following letter to Mr. Jeff Lenox of Blackhawk Ventures regarding the contract awarded by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to Blackhawk Ventures to construct an Army Reserve Center in West Palm Beach, Florida. Hastings urged Mr. Lenox to work with local partners to ensure local hiring for this important project for the Palm Beach County community. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter). May 16, 2012 Mr. Jeff LenoxProgram ManagerBlackhawk VenturesPO Box 831284San Antonio, TX 78283 Dear Mr. Lenox, I write in regards to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers contract you were awarded to construct an Army Reserve Center in West Palm Beach, Florida. This is an important project for Palm Beach County, and I want to strongly encourage you to ensure that any hiring is done locally. This area of Florida has been extremely hard hit by the recession, plagued by high unemployment rates and a struggling economic recovery. At the same time, there is a long and unfortunate history of companies contracting outside laborers to perform work, ignoring the qualified workers of Palm Beach County and the surrounding area when it comes to job creation and retention. In my discussions with the Army Corps of Engineers about this project, I have repeatedly stressed that it is essential for the local community to reap tangible benefits from this Center. Those benefits include the creation of jobs, so that the gains from this project can bolster the local economy and remain within the community in which the Center is to be located. Again, I strongly encourage you to ensure local hiring for this project, and would greatly appreciate being kept informed of my request. If you should have any further questions, please do not hesitate to contact me directly at 202-225-1313. Sincerely, Alcee L. HastingsMember of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Ltr_Blackhawk_Ventures_WPB_Army_Reserve_Center_5.16.12.pdf
05.15.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) will be hosting a Congressional staff briefing to highlight new technologies and media awareness campaigns to combat human trafficking on Friday, May 18th at 9:30 a.m. in room 2456 of the Rayburn House Office Building. The briefing will also be co-hosted by Reps. Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY) and Karen Bass (D-CA), and will feature both U.S. Government and non-governmental speakers. DETAILS: WHO: Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY), and Karen Bass (D-CA) WHAT: Congressional Briefing on Combating Human Trafficking Through Technology and Media WHEN: Friday, May 18, 2012 at 9:30 a.m. WHERE: 2456 Rayburn House Office Building, Washington, D.C. PANELISTS: Alison Friedman, Deputy Director, State Department's Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons Sohini Chatterjee, Senior Advisor, USAID Policy Planning Bureau Matthew Dunn, Section Chief, Child Exploitation Section, Immigration and Customs Enforcement Noopur Agarwal, Senior Director of Public Affairs, mtvU's "Against Our Will" Campaign Julie Cordua, Executive Director, Demi & Ashton Foundation (DNA) Terry FitzPatrick, Director of Communications, Free the Slaves Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.09.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement regarding President Obama's support for same-sex marriage: "I commend President Obama on his decision to formally support same-sex marriage. It is high time that gay and lesbian Americans are afforded the same rights, benefits, and protections of marriage as heterosexual couples. President Obama took an important step towards achieving true marriage equality on February 23, 2011, when he and Attorney General Eric Holder announced that the Department of Justice (DOJ) would no longer defend the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) in court. DOMA allows states to refuse to recognize same-sex marriages performed in other states as well as federally defines marriage as between one man and one woman. President Obama and Attorney General Holder determined that a crucial provision of DOMA violated the equal protection component of the Fifth Amendment. "Today, the President showed real leadership in the ongoing struggle for LGBT equality by announcing his support for same-sex marriage. It is my sincere hope that our nation will follow the President's lead in recognizing the equal rights of all Americans, regardless of their sexual orientation. "Now can we please do something about jobs, education, and health care for everybody in America?" Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.01.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in recognition of Jewish American Heritage Month, which is observed every May to honor Jewish Americans and the contributions they have made to American culture for more than 350 years: "Today, I am proud to join the nation in recognizing the instrumental role that Jewish Americans have played in strengthening and shaping America's landscape. From Albert Einstein's breakthroughs in science to Justice Ruth Bader Ginsberg's tenure on the Supreme Court, it is difficult to imagine where the United States would be without the millions of Jews who have helped build the America we know today. Prominent Jews helped finance the Revolutionary War, lead the labor rights movement, agitate for civil rights, spread democracy abroad, fuel our national culture, and inspire many of the progressive movements that have improved the lives of all Americans. "On its sixth anniversary, I commend my dear friend and colleague Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz as well as former Senator Arlen Specter for working tirelessly to officially establish the first Jewish American Heritage Month in 2006. The fact that resolutions for this commemorative month passed unanimously in both the House and Senate is a testament to the widespread appreciation of Jewish culture in American history. "As we take this month to pay homage to the contributions of Jewish Americans, it is also important to remember that the American Jewish community has long been at the forefront of the fight against persecution. Anti-Semitism, and other virulent forms of extremism, remains prevalent around the world. Jewish American Heritage Month provides us the opportunity to not only recognize how far we have come in the fight against hate, but to also acknowledge that we must remain vigilant. We must continue to work together to eliminate not only anti-Semitism but also to end prejudices against all groups, creating a more tolerable America for future generations. "We owe a debt gratitude to the extraordinary contributions of Jewish Americans. I am proud of the work of the Jewish community in and around my Congressional district, and I applaud the efforts of Jewish communities all across this nation." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.26.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on Yom Ha'atzmaut, Israel's Independence Day: "Sixty-four years ago, after 2,000 years in exile, the Jewish people declared their independence and established a nation in their ancient and sacred homeland. Since then, the Israeli people have developed a vibrant democracy, a vigorous economy, a dynamic cultural life, and an admirable commitment to the environment. "In the Jewish tradition, even joyous occasions are mixed with sorrow, to honor past history and to acknowledge the debt owed to those who came before us. "I have always admired the confluence of Israel Independence Day with Remembrance Day, when the day before the celebration of independence Israelis stop to remember their fallen soldiers, and those who gave their lives in service to the nation. It is a reminder of the heavy price of freedom, and of the burden on future generations to uphold the ideals for which Israel's sons and daughters gave their lives. "Beyond the conflicts that seem to dominate the news, Israel has made extraordinary achievements in every field imaginable. From agriculture and medicine to environmental sustainability and literature, Israelis offer a steady stream of improvements to global challenges. "One of my most memorable visits to Israel was to a desalinization plant in Ashkelon, where I saw firsthand how Israel deals with some of the same water challenges that confront South Florida. This is just one example of how the close relationship between our two countries benefits both Israelis and Americans. "Israel Independence Day is a celebration of renewal, and this year Israelis have much to be proud of in the remarkable nation they built from the desert. For 64 years Israel has stood as a symbol of hope for millions of people around the world. For 64 years Israel has modeled a society where determination and passion, and an emphasis on social progress and education, can build a productive nation. "I have been to Israel 14 times as a Member of Congress, and every time I go I encounter ordinary citizens and government officials alike who are genuinely dedicated to living up to the ideals of Israel's independence. I am always impressed by the Israelis' intense desire to persevere. Israel deserves to be secure and prosperous, to live in peace with its neighbors, and to live free from fear and violence." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.20.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the two year anniversary of the explosion of the Deepwater Horizon oil rig: "Two years ago today, the Deepwater Horizon oil platform exploded, leading to the largest oil spill in U.S. history. This catastrophic explosion left eleven men dead in addition to unleashing 200 million gallons of oil into the Gulf of Mexico. "As we remember the lives lost and devastation caused by this disaster, let us also take this opportunity to reevaluate our country's outdated energy policies that require us to drill in the first place. The United States must end its dependence on fossil fuels and develop a 21st century renewable, green energy plan. Only then we will be able to show that as a nation we have learned from the mistakes of outdated policies and from tragedies such as the Deepwater Horizon explosion." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.19.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) joined others around the world in honoring the victims of the Holocaust, in recognition of Holocaust Remembrance Day during the Days of Remembrance: "One of the worst atrocities in human history, the Holocaust was a state-sponsored, systematic persecution and annihilation of European Jewry at the hands of Nazi Germany and its collaborators between 1933 and 1945. By the end of the Second World War, six million Jews had been murdered. Yet, these were not the only ones targeted for elimination. Millions of Roma, homosexuals, Jehovah's Witnesses, Soviet prisoners of war, political dissidents, and individuals with disabilities were all persecuted under Nazi occupation. Established by the United States Congress, the Days of Remembrance honor the lives of those who suffered and died during the Holocaust. "This year's theme for the Days of Remembrance is Choosing to Act: Stories of Rescue. A number of individuals chose to become involved as they witnessed the persecution and murder of their friends and neighbors. Rather than comply with the brutal laws of the Nazis, many individuals in war-torn Europe intervened to help save the lives of others. Often, this choice was made despite the risk of severe punishment, and even death. I was proud this week to vote in favor of legislation honoring one such heroic individual, Raoul Wallenberg, with a Congressional Gold Medal, a man who saved so many people, but whose own fate remains unknown. "The stories of individuals such as Raoul Wallenberg continue to both inspire and astound. The Talmud teaches that to save one life is to save the world, and so the stories of individuals who took action to rescue their fellow citizens are also stories of ordinary people saving entire worlds. For example, Irena Sendler, a Polish social worker, was tortured and faced execution after she aided in the smuggling of over 2,500 Jewish children out of the Warsaw ghetto. Oskar Schindler, a German industrialist, is credited with saving over 1,100 Jews by employing them in his factories. In another extraordinary story of rescue, an entire community of Greek Jews was saved through the efforts of two men, Mayor Loukas Karrer and Greek Orthodox Bishop Chrysostomos. Over 23,000 'Righteous Gentiles' testify to the fact that the spark of humanity can exist even amidst great brutality in the darkest of times. "This week, and indeed all throughout the year, we must remember those whose lives were lost during the Holocaust. Let us continue to recognize the importance of freedom and human rights, and the sanctity of human dignity. As we remember the unthinkable consequences of what can occur when hate and intolerance are allowed to run rampant, let us also be motivated by the stories of individuals who risked all to confront injustice and genocide." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.17.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in support of his legislation, H.R. 1815, the Lena Horne Recognition Act. H.R. 1815 passed the House of Representatives today by a vote of 410-2. (Please find attached a copy of the legislation). "It is my distinct honor to pay tribute to Ms. Lena Horne with a Congressional Gold Medal in recognition of her many achievements and contributions to American culture and the Civil Rights Movement. I felt that I could not allow time to pass without honoring the life and legacy of Ms. Horne, who passed away on May 9, 2010 at the age of 92. Throughout her lifetime, Ms. Horne used her talent and fame to become a powerful voice for civil rights and equality. "Lena Horne was the recipient of the Kennedy Center Honor for her lifetime contribution to the arts in 1984, and in 1989 she received a lifetime achievement Grammy Award. She has two stars on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, for her work in both motion pictures and recording. Additionally, she has a footprint on the International Civil Rights Walk of Fame at the Martin Luther King, Jr. National Historic Site. Although these and other monumental awards and honors were bestowed upon her, Ms. Horne's life was not a story of smooth sailing. "Even given her extraordinary beauty and talent, she was often limited to minor acting roles because of her race. Among many lost opportunities was the role of Julie in the film adaptation of Show Boat. Ms. Horne had previously played this role in an adaptation of Act 1 of Show Boat that was featured in the 1946 film Till the Clouds Roll By. But due to the Motion Picture Production Code not allowing the depiction of interracial relationships in films, Ava Gardner was cast in this role instead of Lena Horne. Her fame in films was also limited due to the fact that during that time, many films were shot so that the scenes in which Black performers were featured could be easily edited out for Southern audiences. "The struggle for equal and fair treatment became an inseparable and increasingly political part of Ms. Horne's life, even outside of the film industry. She toured extensively with the United Service Organizations (USO) in support of U.S. troops during World War II, where she was a major critic of the unfair treatment of Black soldiers. Outspoken on the issue, Ms. Horne refused to sing for segregated audiences or to groups in which German prisoners of war were seated in front of the Black U.S. servicemen. "In 1981, Ms. Horne finally received the big break she had waited for her whole life – a one-woman Broadway show. Lena Horne: The Lady and Her Music, was the culmination of her triumphs and struggles. It enjoyed a 14-month run before going on tour and earned her a Tony award for distinguished achievement in theater and two Grammys. "At the age of 80, Ms. Horne made the following statement, which I believe appropriately captures her legacy. She stated that: 'My identity is very clear to me now. I am a black woman. I'm free. I no longer have to be a 'credit.' I don't have to be a symbol to anybody; I don't have to be a first to anybody. I don't have to be an imitation of a white woman that Hollywood sort of hoped I'd become. I'm me, and I'm like nobody else.' "Lena Horne was an extraordinary woman who refused to give up her dreams because of the color of her skin and used her beauty, talent, and intelligence to fight racial discrimination. Her perseverance and accomplishments are truly inspirational, having taught us all how to weather the stormy periods of our lives. I am honored that today, we may honor the life and legacy of Ms. Lena Horne with a Congressional Gold Medal, and through this recognition inspire others with her story." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### H.R._1815_-_Lena_Horne_Recognition_Act.pdf
04.02.2012	On Friday, March 30, 2012, the Congressional Caucus on Foster Youth held the second stop of its nationwide listening and learning tour in Broward and Miami-Dade counties to gain a better understanding of Florida's state and local child welfare system. Hosted by U.S. Reps. Alcee L. Hastings (FL-23) and Frederica Wilson (FL-17), Caucus co-chair U.S. Rep. Karen Bass (CA-33) was invited by the Members to learn first-hand how Florida's system may provide ideas for potential positive federal policy modifications in order to improve outcomes for children in the system. "I commend the Congressional Caucus on Foster Youth for choosing South Florida as a stop on its nationwide tour," said Congressman Hastings. "As we shed light on the issues facing our child welfare system, it also gives me great pride to bring attention to the countless members of our community working tirelessly to give foster youth a voice." Florida's child welfare system was redesigned in 2001 to reflect a community-based care model. The new community-based care system combines the outsourcing of foster care and related services to private agencies to promote a sense of increased local community ownership of service delivery and design. Under the new initiative, Florida's Department of Children and Families negotiates and contracts with local non-profit agencies to provide services to children who have been abused, neglected and/or abandoned in their community. All of Florida's 67 counties participate and operate under this model, which is designed to increase accountability, resource development, and system performance. "I'd like to thank my colleagues, Congresswoman Frederica Wilson and Congressman Alcee Hastings, for inviting us to their hometowns to learn about the strategies Florida has undertaken to transform its foster care system," said Rep. Bass. "Our second stop on the listening tour has provided us with an exceptional wealth of knowledge so it is with great hope that the Caucus continues to travel throughout the country learning ways we can positively impact the lives of hundreds of thousands of children." "We must do better to protect foster children just as we would our own, and these forums help us gather the necessary input to improve the foster care system," said Congresswoman Wilson, sponsor of the Rilya Wilson Act in both the Florida state Senate and in Congress. Currently there are more than 424,000 youth in the nation's foster care system and approximately 29,500 children age-out or exit the system each year without ever finding a permanent family. Youth who transition out of the foster care system without the security of a long-term living situation are often at a higher risk for unemployment, poor educational outcomes, health issues, early parenthood, long-term dependency on public assistance, increased rates of incarceration, and homelessness. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.29.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) led the Florida Democratic delegation in sending the following letter to Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi expressing concerns over the handling of the Trayvon Martin case and requesting to be kept apprised of the State's investigation into the matter. Joining Hastings in sending the letter were fellow Florida Democratic Representatives Frederica Wilson (FL-17), Ted Deutch (FL-19), Kathy Castor (FL-11), Corrine Brown (FL-3), and Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20). (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter). March 29, 2012 The Honorable Pam BondiAttorney GeneralFlorida Office of the Attorney GeneralThe Capitol PL-01Tallahassee, FL 32399-1050 Dear Attorney General Bondi: We write to express our grave concern over the handling of the Trayvon Martin case. It is clear that questions must be answered about the events that have transpired over the past month. Therefore, we were pleased to learn that a new State Attorney, Angela Corey of the 4th Judicial Circuit has been assigned to investigate this tragic incident, and that a task force will convene at the conclusion of this investigation. We remain troubled that this incident occurred on February 26, 2012, and yet Mr. George Zimmerman has not been arrested. As members of the Florida Congressional delegation, we request that you keep us apprised of your findings, and provide us with a comprehensive briefing at the conclusion of your investigation. We cannot let the standard of our judicial process be overlooked in this matter. As you know, there are a number of laws, decisions, and procedures involved in both what happened to Mr. Martin, and the subsequent actions of the Sanford Police Department. We sincerely hope that your office will do everything in its power to find answers as to what went wrong in order to prevent an incident like this from happening in the future. Thank you for your time and consideration of our request. We look forward to your response. Sincerely, Alcee L. HastingsMember of Congress Frederica WilsonMember of Congress Ted DeutchMember of Congress Kathy CastorMember of Congress Corrine BrownMember of Congress Debbie Wasserman SchultzMember of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### FL_Dems_Letter_to_Attorney_General_Bondi_-_Trayvon_Martin_3.29.12.pdf
03.27.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) sent the following letter to Mr. David Boyce, Chief Executive Officer of Wind Capital Group, regarding the recent approval of the Sugarland Wind construction plan by the Palm Beach County Commission. Hastings urged Mr. Boyce to work with local partners to ensure residents in the community are prepared to fill the jobs this project will create, as well as to address the impact these wind turbines will have on wildlife in the area. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter). March 27, 2012 David BoycePresident and CEOWind Capital Group1 South Dearborn, Suite 800Chicago, IL 60603 Dear Mr. Boyce: I write in reference to the Palm Beach County Commission's recent approval of the Sugarland Wind construction plan. I welcome this opportunity to address South Florida's need for a sustainable energy supply while at the same time creating badly needed jobs. As you know, the turbines are expected to be located in my Congressional district, near the Glades communities which have suffered crippling unemployment rates since long before the 2008 recession. Your company anticipates that this project will create between 250 and 300 jobs during construction, and between 15 and 20 permanent jobs afterward. It is a wonderful opportunity to create work for the people who live in this area. Therefore, I ask whether Wind Capital intends to hire residents in the surrounding communities of Belle Glade, Pahokee, and South Bay? If so, what procedures are in place to make sure that as many local residents as possible are hired? You should also be aware that there are many resources within the Glades communities that can work with your company to develop any educational or training programs that would help residents improve their qualifications for these specific jobs. For example, the Workforce Alliance, Palm Beach College, and Indian River State College all would make excellent partners with Wind Capital in this effort to train local residents. Additionally, I am concerned about the potential impact of these turbines on the migratory and endangered bird populations in the area. What is Wind Capital doing to minimize the impact that these turbines will have on our wildlife? Thank you for your time and consideration. I look forward to working with your company on this important project. I sincerely hope that it will bring much-needed jobs to the Glades communities that have been plagued with high unemployment rates for far too long. If you should have any further questions, please do not hesitate to contact me directly. Sincerely, Alcee L. HastingsMember of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Rep._Hastings_Letter_to_Wind_Capital_Group_3.27.12.pdf
03.27.2012	On Friday, March 30, 2012, U.S. Reps. Alcee L. Hastings (FL-23) and Frederica Wilson (FL-17) will host their colleagues and co-chairs of the Congressional Caucus on Foster Youth in Broward County and Miami-Dade County, Fla., respectively for the second stop of the Congressional Caucus on Foster Youth's year-long Listening and Learning Tour. Members of the Caucus will learn directly from local experts, foster youth, and parents about best practices and key challenges that face foster youth and the child welfare system. The goal of the Listening Tour is to allow Members to gain a better understanding of the current state of foster care throughout the nation, and identify potential federal policy modifications that could improve outcomes for the 420,000 children in our country's foster care system. The bipartisan Caucus, co-chaired by U.S. Reps. Karen Bass (D-Calif.), Jim McDermott (D-Wash.), Tom Marino (R-Penn.), and Michelle Bachmann (R-Minn.), will travel to at least four cities this year for the nationwide tour. Several Republican and Democratic Members will participate in briefings, site visits, and open community town halls throughout the 2012 events. In Broward and Miami-Dade Counties, co-chairs, U.S. Reps. Karen Bass (D-Calif.) and Tom Marino (R-Penn.), and their hosts participating in the Listening Tour will visit with leadership from the following organizations: ChildNet, Florida Department of Children and Families, Broward County Sherriff's Office, and Youth SHINE in Broward County, and His House, Our Kids, and the Miami-Dade Department of Children and Families in Miami-Dade. Media are invited to attend the events advised below. For interview requests or to obtain more information, please contact Ashley Gammon at Ashley.Gammon@mail.house.gov or 202-360-0126. Broward County, FL Community Town Hall with Foster Youth, Parents and Social Service Providers WHO: U.S. Representatives Karen Bass, Tom Marino, and Alcee L. Hastings The Children Services Council Florida Youth SHINE DATE: Friday, March 30, 2012 TIME: 10:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m. WHERE: ChildNet (313 North State Road 7, Plantation, FL) ABOUT: The Children Services Council and numerous service providers and clients will showcase the unique public/private partnerships in Broward County highlighting family strengthening, kinship, and reunification. Florida Youth SHINE (Striving High for Independence and Empowerment) is a youth run, peer driven organization working hard to change the culture of Florida's foster care system. With membership open to 13-26 year old youth across the state, Florida Youth SHINE is made up of the best youth advocates across the state that identifies the challenges and successes of the child welfare system, and educates the public to create a better child welfare system. Miami-Dade, FL Child Welfare Forum with leaders in Miami-Dade County WHO: U.S. Representatives Karen Bass, Tom Marino, Alcee L. Hastings, and Frederica WilsonHis HouseMiami-Dade Department of Children and FamiliesOur KidsYouth SHINE DATE: Friday, March 30, 2012 TIME: 2:15p.m.-4:30 p.m. WHERE: His House (20000 N.W. 47th Avenue, Miami Gardens, FL) ABOUT: This forum will be led by Miami-Dade Department in Children and Families and Our Kids, the county's lead agency. The forum will include child welfare stakeholders throughout the county who will outline some of the challenges and best practices in Miami-Dade as well as federal policy recommendations. The forum will be followed by a tour of His House Children's Home, a private, non-profit, faith-based organization dedicated to restoring the joy in the lives of children from newborn to 18 years of age, and those who have transitioned out of the foster care system. One of six subcontracted agencies in Miami-Dade County providing case management services, the organization provides unique residential care for abused, neglected and drug-exposed children in a home-like setting. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.23.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in commemoration of the two-year anniversary of the Affordable Care Act: "Two years ago today, the Affordable Care Act was signed into law. This important legislation is the first to ensure that all Americans will have access to health care, regardless of their age, gender, and medical condition. The law ensures that insurance companies play by the rules, lowers health care costs, guarantees more choice, and enhances the quality of care for millions of Americans. "For the first time in our nation's history, adults and children will not be denied coverage because of pre-existing conditions, preventive medicine will be free and available to all, annual and lifetime caps on health benefits will be eliminated, young adults up to 26 years of age will be allowed to remain on their parents' health insurance, prescription drugs for seniors will be affordable thanks to the elimination of the 'donut hole,' small businesses will receive tax credits to help them provide health insurance to their employees, and insurance companies will be required to spend at least 80 percent of premiums on health care and prohibited from implementing unjustified premium hikes. Additionally, the Affordable Care Act creates state exchanges that will soon allow individuals and families to shop for health insurance in a transparent, fair, and competitive marketplace. "The law will continue to phase in until 2014 when all of its provisions will be fully implemented, but millions of Americans have already experienced firsthand its important benefits. I am pleased to announce that in my Congressional district: - 6,700 young adults can now have health coverage through their parents' insurance plan; - 9,000 to 40,000 children can no longer be denied health coverage because of pre-existing conditions; - 20,000 children, 80,000 adults, and 59,000 seniors can now access preventive services without having to pay any co-pays, coinsurance, or deductibles; - 8,900 seniors received prescription drug discounts worth $5.4 million, an average discount of $600 per senior; - 760 small businesses received tax credits to help them afford health insurance for their employees; and - $1.8 million in public health grants have been awarded to health care providers. "Without a doubt, the Affordable Care Act represents one of the most significant pieces of legislation in our nation's history. It is a major accomplishment for millions of children, seniors, women, young adults, and small business owners. In addition, it will reduce the federal deficit by more than $100 billion over the next decade, and by more than $1 trillion in the following decade. "But despite the obvious positive impact that the Affordable Care Act has made in the lives of millions of Americans, the Republican leadership in the House of Representatives has continuously attempted to dismantle the law by repealing provision after provision. I am seriously distraught that some of my colleagues continue to ignore the challenges and struggles of the American people and still want to place the interests of insurance companies over the well-being of American individuals and families. I will do everything in my power to move this country forward, not backward to the days when insurance companies were in charge." As a Member of Congress since 1992, Hastings has always been a strong advocate for smart, comprehensive, and sustainable health care reform. In the 111th Congress alone, he sponsored and co-sponsored over 200 health-related bills in order to increase health care affordability, access, and quality, and has led and supported efforts to facilitate better health care at home in his Congressional district and for the nation as a whole. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.22.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement regarding the death of Trayvon Martin, the Department of Justice's investigation into the shooting, and Florida's "Stand Your Ground" law: "Nearly a month has passed since 17 year-old Trayvon Martin was fatally shot and we have yet to see justice served. On February 26th, George Zimmerman shot and killed Trayvon, who was walking unarmed near a relative's home in Sanford, Florida. Zimmerman has not been arrested or charged in this crime due to his claim of self-defense, which grants him immunity under Florida's misguided 'Stand Your Ground Law,' passed in 2005. "I have always maintained that with Florida's 'Stand Your Ground' law it would only be a matter of time until someone would open fire on an individual innocently walking behind them, just because they look different than them. My greatest fear has become reality with the inexcusable killing of this young man. I said then, and I say it again now, that this law is a license to kill. It is a wholly unconscionable perversion of the notion of self-defense, enabling people to commit outright murder and then throw up their hands afterwards to claim they felt 'threatened.' I would like to know – and I bet Trayvon's family would like to know, and the people of Sanford would like to know, and indeed the American people would like to know – how exactly Trayvon was so threatening to have warranted him getting shot in cold blood. We demand answers. "I am pleased that the Department of Justice (DOJ) is now investigating the case, but it should not have taken almost a month, and it should not have required the media to shine the spotlight on such an egregious offense for the authorities to act. I hope that along with the DOJ's investigation, the dangers of our gun laws that allow all sorts of people to have concealed weapons will finally be addressed so that such a tragedy can never occur again. Florida must abolish the 'Stand Your Ground' law. "This misguided law does not make our streets safer, rather it turns our streets into a showdown at the OK Corral. But this is not the Wild West. We are supposed to be a civilized society. Let Trayvon's death not be for naught. Let us honor his life by righting this wrong, and seeing that justice is served for Trayvon and his family. George Zimmerman must be prosecuted for his admitted shooting of Trayvon Martin and the 'Stand Your Ground' law must be repealed." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.21.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in commemoration of the United Nations' International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination: "Forty-six years ago today, the General Assembly of the United Nations proclaimed March 21st the International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination. Inspired by the tragic events of March 21, 1960, when police in Sharpeville, South Africa opened fire and killed 69 people peacefully demonstrating against the Apartheid 'pass laws,' it reaffirms the international community's resolve to raise awareness of racism and eliminate all forms of racial discrimination. This year's theme is 'racism and conflict,' which highlights the close link between racism and atrocities such as genocide, crimes against humanity, and ethnic cleansing during times of conflict. "It is important to remember, however, that racism is found not only in war-torn countries but also in the various ways that ignorance, prejudice, and stereotypes persist here at home. As we commemorate this year's International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, I hope that peoples all across this nation and around the world will unite in condemning racism and other forms of intolerance. Furthermore, I pledge to continue working with my colleagues in Congress to support efforts that will bring closer together all aspects of our societies." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.13.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) will visit Wynnebrook Elementary School in West Palm Beach, Florida on Thursday, March 15th at 10:30 a.m. The Congressman will meet with staff and students at the school to learn more about the school's unique approach to providing wrap-around support for students outside of academics. DETAILS: WHO: Congressman Alcee L. Hastings WHAT: Wynnebrook Elementary School Visit WHEN: Thursday, March 15, 2012 at 10:30 a.m. WHERE: Wynnebrook Elementary School (1167 Drexel Road, West Palm Beach, Florida) Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.12.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) will be attending the Professional Social Work Recognition Ceremony on Wednesday, March 14th at 6:00 p.m. at the Garden Plaza at Inverrary in Lauderhill, Florida. The Ceremony is hosted by the National Association of Social Workers (NASW) Broward Unit, which has selected Congressman Hastings to be the "2012 Elected Official of the Year" recipient. This award recognizes the responsibilities and challenges of public service and the outstanding service and contributions made by elected officials committed to policies that affect social justice, healthcare, education, and civil and human rights. DETAILS: WHO: Congressman Alcee L. Hastings WHAT: NASW Broward Unit's Professional Social Work Recognition Ceremony WHEN: Wednesday, March 14, 2012 at 6:00 p.m. WHERE: Garden Plaza at Inverrary (4251 Rock Island Road, Lauderhill, Florida) Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.12.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement congratulating the Girl Scouts on their milestone 100th Anniversary. The first Girl Scouts troop, made up of 18 girls, was organized in Savannah, Georgia on March 12, 1912 under the leadership of Juliette "Daisy" Gordon Low. She believed that all girls should be given the opportunity to physically and emotionally develop in an open and community-based setting. "I am honored to recognize the accomplishments of the Girl Scouts of the USA, and join them in celebrating this historic milestone anniversary. I am also pleased to see that in conjunction with their Year of the Girl anniversary celebration, the Girl Scouts will launch a major campaign dedicated to the promotion of issues affecting girls and young women to break down barriers for them, which still exist in today's world. This campaign will be continuing the Girl Scouts' mission, established one hundred years ago, to empower confident and independent girls and inspire them to take on leadership roles in their communities. "The Girl Scouts gives young girls an opportunity to join an organization founded on respect and diversity. I commend them for empowering these young women through their many programs and activities that have helped in building leadership skills to positively change our nation and world." Behind the nearly 3.2 million Girls Scouts and 50 million alumnae today, founder Juliette "Daisy" Gordon Low's original mission to empower girls with confidence, courage, and character can be seen through motivating programs within the Girl Scouts of the USA. Founded in 1912, the Girl Scouts of the USA was officially chartered by the United States Congress on March 16, 1950, enabling the Girl Scouts to reach out to all girls nationwide in order to develop their full potential and relate to others with understanding, skill, and respect to contribute to the improvement of society. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.07.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement regarding voting law changes being enacted in states across the nation, including Florida, that will make it more difficult for people to vote: "There is a 'War on Voting' in this country and, wherever you live, you need to be paying close attention. The Constitution protects voters from discrimination, but that protection is being challenged in states across the nation, and making it harder for people to vote. "In dozens of state legislatures, the new and expanded Republican majorities are pushing and even enacting policies that are proven to lead to the disfranchisement of eligible voters. When asked why, the proponents of these bills always claim that they are needed to prevent voter fraud. When asked for examples of such fraud, however, they go silent. Occasionally, we hear allegations of the dead voting but find that the voter is actually still alive, as happened recently in Kansas, or died after casting his ballot, as we saw in South Carolina in January. The simple fact is that there is no evidence of the kind of in-person voter fraud that these laws are supposedly designed to prevent. "But we know that the laws will deny eligible voters of their constitutionally protected right to vote because such laws have done so in the past. Whether it is requiring identification to cast a ballot, drastically reducing or altogether eliminating early voting periods, or throwing arbitrary and unnecessary regulations into the registration process, the only outcome of the 'War on Voting' is the inevitable turning away of eligible voters. "On May 19th, Governor Rick Scott signed into law HB 1355, a bill attacking the most fundamental right of our democracy: the right to vote. Take for instance the teacher that organized a voter registration drive for students at New Smyrna Beach High School. She received a warning letter from the State informing her that her registration drive was in violation of Governor Scott's new law, and that she was potentially facing thousands of dollars in fines. All she was trying to do was register her high school students to vote, the same as teachers across the state often do, yet she wound up caught in these new restrictive requirements. These are the kinds of real people who suffer the consequences when bad laws are drafted to address problems that do not exist. "In essence, Florida Republicans, under the leadership of Governor Scott, have passed a broad, sweeping law containing a number of measures that I believe will limit access to the polls for minorities, seniors, and college students. For example, HB 1355 limits voting on the Sunday before Election Day, traditionally when many minorities vote. It also disenfranchises voters that move frequently like students and young professionals, by putting an end to a voter's ability to change his or her address at the polls if the voter has moved recently from one county to another and did not update his or her address before the election. Thousands of voters who traditionally change their address at the polls will no longer be able to ensure that their vote is counted. "The bill also reduces the number of early voting days, the preferred time to vote for a large percentage of seniors. These early voters do so because of circumstances like a lack of access to transportation on Election Day and jobs that do not provide time off to vote. Cutting back on the number of early voting days significantly impacts these Floridians, fifty-two percent of whom were registered Democrats in 2008. "We cannot sit idly by and let a fundamentally flawed law turn the clock back on 40 years of progress. We have not come this far only to have our fundamental voting rights trampled on. This cannot be ignored. "We must work together to strengthen our nation's democracy and ensure that the voting rights of all Americans are protected." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.07.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) received a Legislative Leader Award from the Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) and the Humane Society Legislative Fund (HSLF) to honor his efforts and leadership on animal protection issues in the first session of the 112th Congress. "It is with great pleasure that I receive this Legislative Leader Award from the Humane Society," said Hastings. "I am dedicated to ending cruelty against animals and ensuring the well-being and survival of all animals and species. With my home state of Florida having the third highest number of endangered species in the nation, I am acutely aware of the need to protect wildlife." The Humane Society recognized Hastings for both his pro-animal voting record and his leadership on preserving endangered species. In 2011, Hastings reintroduced a resolution recognizing the important contributions the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES) has made in regulating international trade in endangered species and protecting endangered species worldwide. The resolution also urges the United States to adopt a strong pro-conservation position at the next Convention meeting in 2013. Hastings is also leading the effort to protect endangered species in the Everglades, especially the Florida panther, and to remove invasive and dangerous species from protected habitats. Earlier this year, he reintroduced the Wildlife VET Act, which would train more wildlife veterinarians, spur job growth, and promote a robust public health policy. "We commend Representative Hastings for taking the lead and calling attention to these humane concerns," said Wayne Pacelle, president and CEO of the Humane Society of the United States. "We're grateful to have such a steadfast supporter on animal protection." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.06.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the passing of Congressman Donald Payne: "I am truly saddened to learn of the passing of my good friend and colleague, Donald Payne. After being the first African-American elected to Congress from New Jersey in 1988, Donald has been a champion of progressive causes and has always fought for those struggling both at home and abroad. From education reform to foreign affairs issues in Africa and Haiti to health reform to the Congressional Black Caucus, I was truly honored to work alongside such a great man for the past two decades. I wish to express my heartfelt condolences to Donald's family, friends, staff, colleagues, and constituents during this most difficult time. Donald will be truly missed by all." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.02.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement regarding National Read Across America Day: "Today I join children, parents, and educators across the nation in celebrating National Read Across America Day. This day aims to promote the importance of reading and literacy, encouraging strong reading skills and habits from an early age. "An avid passion for reading often engenders a love of learning and vice versa. Not only does National Read Across America Day raise awareness of the importance of childhood literacy, it also supports the need for resources for teachers, parents, and the community in order to teach the importance of reading early in a child's life. A quality education, which I believe starts early and at home, is the mark of a truly great nation. Initiatives such as Read Across America Day are vital in the effort to ensure that all children are able to attain the education they deserve. "It is appropriate that National Read Across America Day is held on March 2nd, birthday of Dr. Seuss, whose colorful and clever stories continue to make reading fun and exciting for generations of children across the globe. In order to adequately provide our children with a strong foundation for lifelong learning, it is vital to expose them to the wonders of the literary world early in life, whether through a whimsical Dr. Seuss story, a classic fairy tale, or the latest melodramatic novel. As such, I will continue to promote efforts such as National Read Across America Day, because a quality education truly starts one book at a time." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.21.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) will be visiting Arise Virtual Solutions, Inc. located at 3450 Lakeside Drive in Miramar, Florida on Wednesday, February 22nd at 9:00 a.m. Arise Virtual Solutions, Inc. is the world's leading provider of virtual business services for brands seeking to improve business results through their sales and service channels. Arise provides 10,000 Floridians with work-from-home opportunities as Independent Business Owners or Client Support Professionals supporting virtual business solutions. DETAILS: WHO: Congressman Alcee L. Hastings WHAT: Arise Virtual Solutions, Inc. Site Visit WHEN: Wednesday, February 22, 2012 at 9:00 a.m. WHERE: Arise Virtual Solutions, Inc. (3450 Lakeside Drive, Miramar, Florida) Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.21.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) will be meeting with representatives from the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation's (JRDF) Greater Palm Beach County Chapter in honor of their Promise to Remember Me campaign on Wednesday, February 22nd at 11:00 a.m. at his Broward County District Office located at 2701 W. Oakland Park Blvd., Suite 200 in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. The goal of JDRF's Promise campaign is to hold 432 meetings with members of the U.S. House of Representatives to discuss issues that are important to diabetes and JDRF's related initiatives. The JDRF representatives will be recognizing Congressman Hastings for his support of juvenile diabetes issues. DETAILS: WHO: Congressman Alcee L. Hastings WHAT: JDRF's Promise to Remember Me Campaign WHEN: Wednesday, February 22, 2012 at 11:00 a.m. WHERE: 2701 W. Oakland Park Blvd., Suite 200, Fort Lauderdale, Florida Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.17.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) sent the following letter to U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk urging him to lead a U.S. trade mission to Haiti. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter). February 17, 2012 The Honorable Ron KirkUnited States Trade RepresentativeOffice of the United States Trade Representative600 17th Street NWWashington, DC 20508 Dear Ambassador Kirk, I write to urge you to lead a U.S. trade mission to Haiti in order to better facilitate and expand economic ties between our two nations. Under the HOPE II Act (P.L. 110-246), language was included stating that: It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of Commerce, in coordination with the United States Trade Representative, the Secretary of State, and the Commissioner responsible for U.S. Customs and Border Protection of the Department of Homeland Security, should lead a trade mission to Haiti, within 6 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, to promote trade between the United States and Haiti, to promote new economic opportunities afforded under the amendments made by section 15402 of this Act, and to help educate United States and Haitian business concerns about such opportunities. Though the 2010 earthquake understandably prevented such a mission from taking place, the emergency phase of recovery has long been over and the need to encourage trade with Haiti has never been greater. A vibrant economic sector is vital, as Haiti's focus turns to long-term, sustainable rebuilding. The United States government and private sector have poured billions of dollars and countless man-hours into the recovery process. However, a true recovery cannot take hold without job creation and a robust private-sector. While Haiti may still face its fair share of challenges, many Americans are simply unaware of the economic opportunities available there. In Haiti, Americans will find untapped markets, favorable trade laws, and a large and willing workforce. American businesses are also in a unique position to benefit not only from our geographic proximity to Haiti but also from the large Haitian Diaspora residing in the United States, many of whom remain connected to Haiti and are eager to help. Given our long history and deep ties with our Haitian neighbors, it is in our nation's best interest to engage in business with Haiti. I therefore strongly recommend you lead a trade mission to Haiti, so that American businesses and their Haitian counterparts can reap the benefits of a flourishing Haitian economy. Thank you for your consideration. With warm regards, Sincerely, Alcee L. HastingsMember of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Letter_to_Ambassador_Kirk_requesting_trade_mission_to_Haiti_2-17-12.pdf
02.17.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement regarding his opposition to the Conference Report to accompany H.R. 3630, the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012. Hastings voted against the legislation that passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 293-132 earlier today. "Within this legislation, there are provisions that I do support. I support giving a payroll tax cut to 160 million Americans, extending unemployment insurance to those Americans who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own, and to allow seniors access to their doctors under Medicare. But there is a damaging aspect of this bill that will affect the pensions of future federal employees. "This bill raises an additional $15 billion to extend unemployment insurance coverage by requiring federal employees to contribute a larger amount to their retirement accounts. Federal employees are currently in their second year of a pay freeze while my colleagues across the aisle only a few short weeks ago voted to freeze federal employees' pay for a third year. Republicans don't think twice about limiting federal workers' ability to support their families, but are more than willing to shut down the government when bankers are asked to pay their fair share of taxes on their bonuses. "How much can we continue to pick on federal workers? They are not fat-cats. They are postal workers, janitors, teachers, nurses, social workers, and police officers. When did they become the bad guys? How much can we continue to pile on them before their backs break? How much weight should the wealthiest Americans, who can afford it, carry? "I am also concerned that this compromise to extend unemployment insurance reduces benefits from 99 weeks to as little as 73 weeks through December. I hear daily from constituents who are approaching the end of their 99 weeks and are at a loss as to where to turn next. Although the economy may be starting to recover, what are we supposed to tell those people who have been looking for a job for months and months on end? What kind of compromise are they supposed to strike with unemployment? "Furthermore, this legislation will blow a $100 billion hole in the deficit by not paying for the measure. It is a precursor from the Republicans for the beginning of the end of Social Security. "Millions of Americans all across this nation are struggling and they need our help. The Republican majority would rather implement policies that unfairly favor the wealthy, while asking the least among us to make enormous sacrifices. I am sick and tired of Republican gamesmanship. I voted against this measure, because 'enough is enough.'" Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.16.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in response to the American Association of University Women's (AAUW) recent release of its Congressional Voting Record for the first session of the 112th Congress. This scorecard gives the public critical information about how members of Congress voted on AAUW priority issues affecting women's education, economic security, and civil rights. Hastings received a perfect score of 100/100: "I genuinely appreciate the AAUW's recognition of my efforts in Congress to support and protect women's rights. The AAUW should also be commended on their continued work to raise awareness about the many pressing issues that affect women in our country. "It is important for women and their families to know that their Representatives in Congress stand with them on the issues that concern them the most. I am a proud cosponsor of the Paycheck Fairness Act, which would ensure that women in the workforce receive equal pay and treatment, as well as the Campus Sexual Violence Elimination (SaVE) Act, which would help protect students from various crimes on campus, including dating violence and stalking. "The Paycheck Fairness Act and the SaVE Act are two examples of initiatives that go a long way towards protecting the interests and well-being of women in matters affecting education, civil rights, economic security, and public safety. However, as the AAUW acknowledged in their report, these initiatives have been the exception rather than the rule in the present Republican-led House. In the first session of the 112th Congress, my counterparts in the majority have ignored the plight of women who desire job security and equality, affordable higher education, and protection from violent and abusive environments. Instead of dealing with these issues, the GOP has opted for reviving old lines of attack against women's right to have access to preventive and reproductive health care. "Efforts to decrease or cut financial support to Planned Parenthood underscore the disconnect between the GOP and millions of girls and women in America who depend on the organization for breast cancer preventive services, screenings, and education. "As a father of two daughters, I understand the importance of protecting women's rights and the role that the government has in making progress on the issues that affect them. Pursuing policies that jeopardize vital women's health services and job creating programs for the sake of political expediency will only put us on the wrong track as we try to end the gridlock in Congress. "I laud the efforts of the AAUW to hold each member of Congress accountable for their votes on issues that matter to women and their families, and I will continue to work to ensure that our laws protect the well-being of all Americans." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.15.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) will give welcoming remarks at a Congressional Briefing on Infant and Toddler Homelessness on Thursday, February 16th at 1:30 p.m. in room 2325 of the Rayburn House Office Building. The briefing is being sponsored by ZERO TO THREE: National Center for Infants, Toddlers, and Families, the National Center on Family Homelessness, the National Alliance to End Homelessness, Horizons for Homeless Children, and the National Association for the Education of Homeless Children and Youth in cooperation with the Congressional Caucus on Homelessness, of which Congressman Hastings is a Co-Chair. This briefing seeks to increase awareness regarding the problems faced by infants and toddlers in homeless families; educate the public on the impact that homelessness has on their early development; and highlights effective approaches and interventions to better serve young homeless children and their families. DETAILS: WHO: Congressman Alcee L. Hastings WHAT: Congressional Briefing on Infant and Toddler Homelessness WHEN: Thursday, February 16, 2012 at 1:30 p.m. WHERE: 2325 of the Rayburn House Office Building PANELISTS: Mary Huber, Ph.D., Research Director, The National Center on Family Homelessness Sarah Benjamin, MA, Teacher Liaison/Education Advocate, Eastern Suffolk BOCES, Family Education Outreach Services Kim Cosgrove, LCSW-C, Program Director, PACT's Therapeutic Nurseries and Clinical Social Worker, Kennedy Krieger Institute Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.14.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) will be a guest speaker at the National American Indian Housing Council's (NAIHC) Annual Legislative Conference on Wednesday, February 15th at 1:45 p.m. in the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs Hearing Room located at 628 Dirksen Senate Office Building. The NAIHC is a not-for-profit organization that assists tribes and tribal housing programs in reaching their goal of providing culturally relevant, decent, safe, sanitary, and quality affordable housing for native people in tribal communities, Alaska Native villages, and on native Hawaiian Home Lands. DETAILS: WHO: Congressman Alcee L. Hastings WHAT: NAIHC's Annual Legislative Conference WHEN: Wednesday, February 15, 2012 at 1:45 p.m. WHERE: The Senate Committee on Indian Affairs Hearing Room (628 Dirksen Senate Office Building) Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.14.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in response to the dismissal of the lawsuit filed against him by Judicial Watch on behalf of Winsome Packer (Please find attached a copy of the dismissal): "I appreciate the court's ruling. As I have said repeatedly, this whole thing is ridiculous, bizarre, frivolous, and has wasted – and is still wasting – a whole lot of folks' time and money. In a race with a lie, the truth always wins. Today, the truth prevailed in a court of law, and I am glad to see that these bogus allegations have finally been dismissed." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Packer_-_Order_Granting_Motion_to_Dismiss.pdf
02.13.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) will be a guest on Rebuild America with Jeff Santos today, Monday, February 13, 2012 at 3:43 p.m. on AM 1470 WWNN. The interview will also be streamed live at www.revolutionboston.com. DETAILS: WHO: Congressman Alcee L. Hastings WHAT: Rebuild America with Jeff Santos WHEN: Monday, February 13, 2012 at 3:43 p.m. WHERE: AM 1470 WWNN or www.revolutionboston.com Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Click here to listen to the podcast.
02.10.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) sent the following letter to Florida Governor Rick Scott urging the State of Florida to support its ADAP and Medicaid program to the greatest extent allowed by its current budgetary considerations in order to ensure that Floridians living with HIV/AIDS have reliable access to the drugs they need to stay alive. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter). Congressman Hastings remains deeply committed to addressing our nation's ADAP funding crisis. In December 2011, he supported President Obama's announcement on World AIDS Day committing an additional id="mce_marker"5 million to the Ryan White Program and $35 million to ADAP. In August 2011, Hastings was joined by his fellow South Florida Democrats in calling on the Department of Health and Human Services to make available greater emergency relief funding for Florida and other ADAP waiting list states. In April 2011, he helped secure an additional $48 million for ADAP, bringing total FY 2011 funding for the program to $883 million, by offering an amendment to the full-year Continuing Resolution. And in September 2010, Hastings sent a letter to House Leadership calling on the House of Representatives to bring an emergency supplemental of $25 million to the floor for a vote as soon as possible to provide relief to state ADAPs. February 10, 2012 The Honorable Rick ScottGovernorState of FloridaThe Capitol400 S. Monroe St.Tallahassee, FL 32399-0001 Dear Governor Scott: I write to bring to your attention an urgent matter that requires immediate consideration. As you may know, our nation's AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP) faces an ongoing funding crisis. Due to a federal funding shortfall, state budget cuts, and an increase in the number of individuals living with HIV/AIDS who rely on public health safety net programs, many states, including Florida, have had to create ADAP waiting lists and cut services by reducing eligibility criteria, changing formularies, and implementing other cost-containment measures. Currently, Florida accounts for 21 percent (980 individuals) of the 4,575 individuals on ADAP waiting lists in 12 states. Therefore, I urge the State of Florida to support its ADAP, as well as its Medicaid program, to the greatest extent allowed by its current budgetary considerations. While the Federal government's investment in treatment and research is helping people with HIV/AIDS live longer and more productive lives, HIV continues to spread at a staggering rate. Nationwide, more than one million people in the United States are living with HIV/AIDS, and 56,000 individuals become newly infected with the virus each year. According to the Florida Department of Health's Bureau of HIV/AIDS, in 2009, Florida ranked number one in the nation in HIV infections as well as AIDS diagnoses. Furthermore, Florida ranks third-highest among the 50 states in cumulative reported AIDS cases. Florida's consistently high rate of HIV/AIDS poses a serious public health concern. Among HIV-positive individuals, it is estimated that one in five are unaware of their infection, which increases the likelihood of late diagnosis, delayed treatment, and transmission to others. State ADAPs are funded through the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program, which was established in 1990 to help provide health care and support services to some of our nation's most vulnerable citizens. The Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) estimates that about one in four HIV-positive people in care in the United States receive their medications through state ADAPs. However, the prolonged existence of ADAP waiting lists makes it clear that current funding levels for ADAP are unsustainable. Although federal emergency funding and Welvista's Florida ADAP Bridge Program have helped to significantly reduce the ADAP waiting list in Florida, further investment is necessary if we are to be successful in ensuring access to lifesaving drugs for individuals living with HIV/AIDS. According to the January 2012 National ADAP Monitoring Project, an annual report produced by the National Alliance of State and Territorial AIDS Directors (NASTAD), in FY 2011 federal ADAP funds provided 43 percent of the national ADAP budget, state contributions provided 16 percent, drug rebates provided 33 percent, and the remainder consisted of various Ryan White grants, contributions, and other supplemental funding. In contrast, Florida contributes less than 10 percent to its ADAP. Any additional support that the State of Florida can provide to its ADAP will go a long way in helping alleviate its waiting list while providing vulnerable Floridians living with HIV/AIDS access to much-needed care. In addition, I encourage you to support state and local efforts to prevent and treat HIV/AIDS by strengthening Florida's commitment to Medicaid. About 40 percent of individuals living with HIV/AIDS are covered under Medicaid, and some of these patients are also enrolled in Medicare as "dual eligibles." As a group, they represent the poorest, sickest, and most costly beneficiaries. Any cuts to Medicaid threaten to undermine the progress that has been made in addressing the HIV/AIDS epidemic by exacerbating the current ADAP crisis. In particular, cutting Medicaid will force patients to turn to the State's final safety net – the Ryan White Program and ADAP – in order to receive their treatments and related services, thus placing even further strain on the Program. It is for these reasons that I strongly urge the State of Florida to preserve access to Medicaid and find efficiencies in its Medicaid program to better treat people living with HIV/AIDS, as well as ease the burden on the Ryan White Program and ADAP as the payers of last resort. Governor Scott, thank you for your attention to this important matter. Thousands of low-income, uninsured, and underinsured Floridians living with HIV/AIDS are counting on you to support the State's ADAP and Medicaid program, thereby ensuring that they have reliable access to the drugs they need to stay alive. Without further support from the State, I am deeply concerned that Florida's ADAP waiting list may begin growing again in the coming months due to insufficient funding. I look forward to your response and hope that, together, we can take swift and meaningful action to help members of Florida's HIV/AIDS community live healthy, productive lives and stem the tide of new HIV infections. Should you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact me. Sincerely, Alcee L. HastingsMember of Congress Cc: The Honorable Mike Haridopolos, President, Florida SenateThe Honorable Andy Gardiner, Majority Leader, Florida SenateThe Honorable Nan H. Rich, Minority Leader, Florida SenateThe Honorable Dean Cannon, Speaker, Florida House of RepresentativesThe Honorable Carlos Lopez-Cantera, Majority Leader, Florida House of RepresentativesThe Honorable Ron Saunders, Democratic Leader, Florida House of Representatives Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Rep._HastingsLetter_to_Gov.__Rick_Scott_Regarding_ADAP_-_2.10.12.pdf
02.10.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar), along with several Members of the Congressional Black Caucus and Congressman Ted Deutch (FL-19) and Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20), met with Haitian Prime Minister Garry Conille and other Haitian government officials on February 9, 2012. During the meeting, Hastings expressed particular concern regarding the accountability and coordination of foreign aid. "What is your government doing to ensure the billions of dollars that have flowed into Haiti are not misused?" Hastings asked the Prime Minister. He also inquired about the effectiveness of foreign aid, questioning, "What is the Haitian government doing to ensure the billions of dollars in aid and countless non-governmental organizations are helping to build a self-sustaining and self-sufficient Haiti and not simply creating a perpetually dependant state?" Prime Minister Conille acknowledged existing problems with coordination, stating that "Each partner goes after their own agenda." He also expressed the need for partners to "rally behind one goal" in a coordinated manner and discussed the need for aid organizations to be accountable for their results, suggesting the inclusion of a performance indicator in their programs. The Prime Minister suggested that aid organizations and donors question, "Does the program or funding include the creation of capacity so that when you exit, someone else can take over? Currently, that is not the case." Prime Minister Conille was in Washington, DC as part of an official three-day visit during which he met with U.S. officials and representatives from international organizations. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.09.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in response to U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder's announcement that a $26 billion settlement had been reached between the Justice Department, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, 49 state attorneys general, and the nation's largest mortgage servicers. The State of Florida is expected to receive $8.4 billion of the settlement, which would assist homeowners in need. "Today's announcement is long overdue. I am pleased to see that Ally/GMAC, Bank of America, Citi, JPMorgan Chase, and Wells Fargo are going to be held accountable for their improper practices. This settlement will give much-needed relief to struggling homeowners. With South Florida being one of the hardest hit regions in the country by the foreclosure crisis, and having witnessed firsthand in my Congressional district the devastation caused by the housing crisis, it is time that those who have suffered be given the relief they rightly deserve. "While this settlement is a great first step in providing assistance to homeowners in distress as well as holding lenders responsible for issues with their mortgage serving practices, more still needs to be done to help the millions of homeowners who continue to struggle to make their mortgage payments each month. That is why I recently introduced H.R. 3733, the Affordable Mortgage for Homeowners Act, which requires Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to reduce the interest rate on all the mortgages they own to the current, more affordable interest rate, which averages four percent. "In Congress, I have worked to support measures that help people remain in their homes, avoid foreclosure, increase financial literacy, and ensure the right to fair and affordable housing. I applaud the agreement reached today and hope that we will continue to do more to ensure that the housing crisis is comprehensively addressed. Homeowners must be given the support they need during these difficult economic times." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.09.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in response to the Obama administration's recent decision on contraceptive coverage: "I applaud the Obama administration's decision to only exempt explicitly religious employers from the requirement to provide contraceptive coverage at no additional cost to their employees. Under the Affordable Care Act, new health plans are required to cover recommended women's preventive services, including FDA-approved birth control. This will ensure that millions of women will have insurance coverage for contraception. "Today 99 percent of all women will use some forms of contraception in their life. With one of the highest unintended pregnancy rates among industrialized countries, the United States must give women the necessary tools and resources to make the decisions that are best for them and their families. Providing Americans with contraceptive coverage at no cost will allow them to plan their families according to their own conscience. Neither the government nor their employer should be involved in these important and very personal decisions. "I am pleased that the President stood strong against various efforts to attack women's health and based his decision solely on sound medical and health recommendations. The nonpartisan Institute of Medicine recommended last year that birth control be covered as a women's preventive service. Access to birth control is not only one of the best ways to prevent unintended pregnancies, but it also improves the health of women and their families, and helps decrease maternal and infant mortality, among others. "As a strong supporter of religious freedom, I believe that women should make decisions according to their own conscience and faith. However, I believe that all women who choose to use birth control should have access to it, regardless of their employers. The President's ruling is a considerable step toward achieving universal contraceptive coverage across the nation. I will continue to work to ensure that the administration fulfills its pledge to provide comprehensive and affordable care to all Americans." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.07.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) recognized the importance of National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day in the ongoing effort to bring an end to HIV/AIDS. This year marks the 12th anniversary of National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day, which aims to raise awareness of HIV/AIDS; encourage regular testing for HIV/AIDS; increase involvement; and ensure access to treatment for individuals living with HIV/AIDS within Black communities. "The theme for this year's National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day is 'I Am My Brother's/Sister's Keeper: Fight HIV/AIDS,' which reminds us of the responsibility we have in helping ensure the health and well-being of our family members, friends, and community. From new HIV infections to deaths, it is an unfortunate fact that Black men and women experience the most severe HIV/AIDS burden of all racial and ethnic groups in the United States. In 2009, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Blacks accounted for 44 percent of all new HIV infections while representing only 14 percent of the U.S. population. Furthermore, an estimated 1 in 16 black men and 1 in 32 black women will be diagnosed with HIV infection at some point in their lifetimes. "Regardless of age, gender, sexual orientation or behavior, socioeconomic status, or religion, I believe that we can all agree on one thing: HIV/AIDS has claimed enough lives and it is time that we say, 'we've had enough.' While various factors such as stigma, greater rates of poverty, and disparate access to health care pose continuing challenges, we have the power to make a real difference and overcome HIV/AIDS. We must educate our communities; encourage regular testing for HIV/AIDS; increase community involvement; and get HIV-positive individuals connected to treatment and care services. "Healthier communities begin with healthier individuals. Alarmingly, approximately 1 in 5 Americans living with HIV do not know that they are infected, increasing the likelihood of late diagnosis and transmission to others. That is why I introduced H.R. 1774, the Increasing Access to Voluntary Screening for HIV/AIDS and STIs Act, which establishes a broad policy for voluntary HIV/AIDS and STI screening that focuses on at-risk and historically underrepresented communities. "On this National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day, I pledge to continue working together with my colleagues in Congress to support comprehensive HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment efforts, including the Minority HIV/AIDS Initiative, the National AIDS Strategy, and the Ryan White Program." National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day was founded in 1999 by Concerned Black Men, Inc. of Philadelphia, Health Watch Information and Promotion Services, Inc., Jackson State University's Mississippi Urban Research Center, the National Black Alcoholism and Addictions Council, and National Black Leadership Commission on AIDS together with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.07.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) sent the following letter to U.S. Department of the Interior Secretary Ken Salazar calling for a comprehensive plan for eliminating non-native predator snakes in the Everglades in order to preserve and protect this delicate ecosystem. Recently, the Obama Administration banned the importation and interstate transportation of four non-native constrictor snakes, however, this ban did not address many other invasive species nor did it address the snakes that are already living in the wild that continue to threaten the unique wildlife and habitat of the Everglades. Joining Hastings in sending the letter are Senator Bill Nelson (D-FL) and Representatives Frederica Wilson (FL-17), Ted Deutch (FL-19), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20), Allen West (FL-22), C.W. Bill Young (FL-10), Kathy Castor (FL-11), Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-21), David Rivera (FL-25), and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-18). (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter). February 7, 2012 The Honorable Ken SalazarSecretaryU.S. Department of the Interior1849 C. Street, NWWashington, D.C. 20240 Dear Secretary Salazar: We were pleased with your recent announcement on the prohibition (pursuant to the Lacey Act) of the interstate transport and importation of live individuals, gametes, viable eggs, or hybrids of the Burmese python, northern and southern African pythons, and yellow anaconda into the United States. These large, non-native species are known predators within the Everglades, and are destroying endangered wildlife while upsetting the delicate balance of this sensitive ecosystem. We believe that this ban is long overdue and an important step in the process. However, it is insufficient as a long-term solution to eradicate the problem. Other snakes that were not included in the ban, such as the reticulated python, boa constrictor, DeSchauensee's anaconda, green anaconda and Beni anaconda, pose similar threats to both the Everglades and other ecosystems across the country. Furthermore, this ban does not address the snakes that are already living in the wild. Even conservative estimates state the possibility of thousands of these large snakes already loose and breeding. We would like to know if the Department of Interior has a similar comprehensive plan for the snakes, and what else the Department plans to do on the issue. In addition, does the Department have any plans to develop or support rapid response teams that can address reports of large snake species that have not yet become established in the wild? As you know, the federal government plays a critically important role in Everglades restoration. There are hundreds of millions of federal dollars invested in Everglades restoration efforts. The Everglades are a unique national treasure found nowhere else in the world. We must protect this crucial and beautiful ecosystem. A comprehensive plan for dealing with these invasive species would help to do just that. Thank you for your attention to this matter and your continued support of the Everglades. We look forward to hearing back from you on how Congress can work with the Department and other stakeholders to develop a comprehensive plan for eliminating these snakes in order to preserve and protect the habitat living in the Everglades. Sincerely, Alcee L. HastingsMember of Congress Bill NelsonUnited States Senator Frederica WilsonMember of Congress Ted DeutchMember of Congress Debbie Wasserman SchultzMember of Congress Allen WestMember of Congress C.W. Bill YoungMember of Congress Kathy CastorMember of Congress Mario Diaz-BalartMember of Congress David RiveraMember of Congress Ileana Ros-LehtinenMember of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Letter_to_DOI_Regarding_Snake_Ban_2.7.12.pdf
02.02.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) managed the rule providing for consideration of H.R. 3578, the Baseline Reform Act, and H.R. 3582, the Pro-Growth Budgeting Act. He made the following statement on the House floor in opposition to the rule and the underlying legislation: "Both of these bills impose convoluted new rules on an already complicated budget process, and attempt to enshrine Republican ideology into what is supposed to be an objective analysis. What Republicans are presenting as 'common-sense' reforms are actually nonsense reforms. These budget process changes are mere gimmicks to defend the elimination of spending on essential government services, and to dress up tax cuts for the wealthy in the phony guise of benefiting average Americans. "These changes tie Congress and the Congressional Budget Office up in knots in an effort to prove that conservative ideology about taxes and spending is going to grow our nation's economy. Not creating more jobs. Not stimulating demand. Not investing in infrastructure or education or any of the many endeavors that are critical to improving the lives of all Americans. "Rather, what Republicans are trying to do is create a Frankenstein budget process: add a procedure here, sever a rule over there, zap it with electricity, and now you have a budget process that proves tax cuts for the wealthy are the only way to grow our economy. But guess what: it still ain't human, and it certainly isn't humane. "For the Baseline Reform Act, Republicans propose that the Congressional Budget Office not include annual inflation when making their budget estimates. This seems like a rather mundane technical change, but it isn't. "I would be pleased to support this because it means that in making my own personal budget projections, I can simply ignore the fact that costs for everyday items and activities tend to go up every year. I can just assume that what I'm paying today I can keep paying 10 years from now, and still expect the exact same amount of goods and services. "But of course, we all know that isn't true. Simply wishing away inflation won't make it so. Fuzzy math does not equal fiscal responsibility. By eliminating inflation adjustments from discretionary spending projections, Republicans are actually just reducing the funding for a federal program. Since the dollar amount would stay the same every year, the amount of services that could be covered would decrease. Over the long-term, this results in a massive decrease in essential services that millions of Americans rely on. "This technical change, then, is actually a back-door effort to slowly starve necessary government programs. Rather than be upfront about which programs Republicans want to eliminate, they would rather put sneaky rules into place to guarantee the outcome they want – without having to have an open debate. That's the kind of budget process that only Igor could love. "Through the Pro-Growth Budgeting Act, Republicans want to introduce dynamic scoring to the CBO's projection process. Once again, this seems like a minor technical change. But when you look closely, you see that this is an effort to zap electricity into the monster that is tax cuts for the wealthy. Under this bill, the CBO's analyses are tweaked so that tax cuts for the wealthy seem like they grow the economy, while actual investments in the needs of everyday Americans do not. "Republicans make it easier to cut taxes for the rich than to build bridges and schools for the rest of us. This bill specifically instructs the CBO to ignore the positive economic effects that would come about from investments in things like infrastructure and education, as if spending on things that Americans want and need won't boost the economy. "The CBO has already projected that extending the Bush tax cuts for the wealthy would actually reduce growth in the long-run. But rather than face the facts, Republicans simply want to change the rules so that this analysis is turned upside down. "Republicans have been so concerned about building actual bridges to nowhere they've turned the budget process into its own kind of bridge to nowhere. Rather than using the budget process to lead this country into a new era of economic growth, Republicans want to cut taxes for the rich, cut programs for everyone else, and then feel like they've set this country on the right track. "This is no way to run an economy, no way to run a budget process, and no way to stick up for the millions of struggling Americans who need us to focus on improving the economy. "With these two bills, Republicans want to first drastically reduce essential government programs, and then second to enshrine tax cuts for the rich as the central pillar of economic growth. If they achieve these changes they will succeed in creating a budget process that overwhelmingly favors tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans, while creating near-impossible hurdles for ordinary programs to keep pace with the rate of inflation, and thus stay in business. "While Republicans cry that it's alive, millions of other Americans will still be struggling to find jobs, to pay off their student loans, to access affordable health care and decent housing, and to survive in an economy that favors those who have the most rather than those who have the least. "Dr. Frankenstein was eventually repulsed by the monster he created. These technical changes to the budget process are equally repulsive, for they add up to a system of government spending that is helpful to those who need it the least, and harmful to those who need it the most. "Tying our hands in convoluted knots in order to advance a conservative ideology is not the way to run an honest, objective, and open budget process. I urge my colleagues to vote against this rule and the underlying bills." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Click here to view Congressman Hastings' Opening Remarks Click here to view Congressman Hastings' Closing Remarks
02.02.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) reintroduced the Wildlife Veterinarians Employment and Training Act (Wildlife VET Act). This legislation will develop affordable and well qualified opportunities for individuals who are seeking to become wildlife veterinarians, spur job growth, and promote robust public health policy. (Please find attached a copy of the legislation). "With the intensification of globalization and climate change, along with a growing interface between humans, livestock, and wildlife, the threat posed by emerging infectious diseases to humans and wildlife keeps increasing. Controlling pandemic and large-scale outbreaks of disease has become more problematic. "Wildlife veterinarians have the resources and expertise necessary to help respond to environmental disasters and address short-term and long-term impacts on wildlife and their habitats. Wildlife veterinarians have proven to be essential to the rescue and rehabilitation efforts in the Gulf of Mexico region following the Deepwater Horizon oil spill that began on April 20, 2010. "In spite of these threats to both wildlife and public health, the United States faces a shortage of positions for wildlife veterinarians. In addition, veterinarian graduates owe an average of id="mce_marker"30,000 in student loans, and salaries for wildlife professionals are relatively low compared to companion animal medicine. Lower salaries, combined with high educational debt and the small number of positions available, discourage students from becoming wildlife veterinarians. The number of practical trainings and formal educational programs specializing in wildlife and zoological veterinary medicine are also insufficient. "My bill will directly address these issues which dissuade veterinarians from practicing wildlife medicine. It will contribute to the national job creation effort by funding new positions for wildlife veterinarians and will ensure that veterinary students find jobs upon graduation. The bill will also limit the amount of educational debt for students while providing incentives to study and practice wildlife veterinary medicine through the establishment of scholarships and loan repayment programs. Lastly, my legislation will advance education by helping schools develop pilot curricula specializing in wildlife veterinary medicine and by expanding the number of practical training programs available to students. "We have reached a point in our history when we cannot ignore the importance of protecting America's wildlife. Wild animals are a very important part of our commonly held natural resources and contribute to maintaining a balanced ecosystem. With an increasing number of endangered species, the introduction of invasive non-native species, and more infectious disease threats, wildlife veterinarians must be placed at the core of our efforts and be given the resources and recognition necessary to protect both animal and human lives. "I urge my colleagues to extend a helping hand to America's veterinarians by supporting this important piece of legislation." Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors of the legislation are (10): Reps. Michael G. Grimm (R-NY), Kurt Schrader (D-OR), Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ), James P. Moran (D-VA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Dennis Kucinich (D-OH), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Larry Kissell (D-NC), Madeleine Z. Bordallo (D-GU), and Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### The_Wildlife_VET_Act.pdf
02.01.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in commemoration of Black History Month, which is observed each February to educate and highlight the remarkable contributions of the African Diaspora to the arts, sciences, humanities, military, and politics: "Today, I am proud to join the nation in celebrating Black History Month to honor the people of African descent whom had the courage to guide our Nation's enduring struggle to create a more perfect Union. This year's theme, 'Black Women in American Culture and History,' calls upon us to honor the myriad of critical roles that Black women have undertaken throughout our nation's history. "Black women have played key roles in some of the most famous events in American history to destroy slavery and install universal freedom in the United States. From Harriet Tubman who dedicated her life to rescue slaves from the Underground Railroad, to Rosa Parks who is referred to as 'the first lady of civil rights' and 'the mother of the freedom movement' because of her tenacity during the Civil Rights Movement to overcome racial segregation. Black Americans have shaped America and made us the great nation that we are today. It is in this spirit of deep appreciation and admiration that I introduced H.R. 1815, the Lena Horne Recognition Act, to award a Congressional Gold Medal to the late Lena Horne for her outstanding contributions to American culture and the Civil Rights Movement. After much hard work, this legislation has reached the threshold of support necessary to be considered on the House floor. I hope to see it soon passed by the House, and subsequently the Senate, so that we may honor the life and legacy of Lena Horne at last. "While changes in discriminatory laws and practices have increased economic, and educational opportunities for minorities in the United States, vast socioeconomic disparities continue to exist. Although the recent economic downturn had devastating effects on individuals from all backgrounds, African-Americans have been hit particularly hard. This disparity was highlighted in the Department of Labor's December 2011 Jobs Report, which showed the national unemployment rate falling from 8.7 percent to 8.5 percent between November and December, while the unemployment rate for African-Americans remained much higher and actually increased during the same period from 15.5 percent to 15.8 percent. "As we celebrate Black History Month, it allows us to reflect upon how far we have come, and what more we need to accomplish to revitalize the American Dream, in order to create more opportunity and social mobility for all Americans. It also is an opportunity to foster education and understanding among people of differing backgrounds. For these reasons, I am extremely proud to commemorate Black History Month and encourage all of my colleagues in the House of Representatives to do so as well." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.01.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in opposition to H.R. 1173, the Fiscal Responsibility and Retirement Security Act. This House Republican-backed legislation would repeal the Community Living Assistance Services and Supports (CLASS) Act enacted under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. The CLASS Act creates a national and voluntary long-term care insurance program which provides individuals with functional limitations the opportunity to purchase community living assistance services and supports. It allows these individuals to maintain personal and financial independence while alleviating the burdens on family caregivers. "Employers may offer long-term care benefits to their employees through the CLASS program instead of or in addition to private plans. Employees whose employers do not offer the CLASS program may still participate through alternative payment methods. Regardless of the option chosen, the CLASS program is required to be self-supportive and funded by participant-paid premiums. Let us be clear: no taxpayer money will fund benefit payments under the CLASS Act. On the contrary, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimated that the program would save taxpayers $70 billion over ten years. "While the sustainability of the program is of concern, repealing the CLASS Act in its entirety is not the solution. As the population ages, our country's elderly will need more affordable and efficient long-term care options. Currently, 10 million Americans require assisted living services and supports, a number that is expected to rise to 15 million over the next decade. Relying on Medicare and Medicaid is financially unsustainable. We cannot afford to continue increasing already high Medicare and Medicaid costs. Furthermore, it is clear that the private long-term care insurance market is not enough. Only around eight percent of Americans buy into it. Many are either ineligible or unable to afford such insurance plans. "Long-term care costs currently account for nearly half of all health care spending, and such costs will become increasingly unaffordable in the future. Currently, long-term assisted care facilities cost an average of $70,000 per year, and home-health aides can average as much as $25 per hour of service. For the majority of older Americans, the out-of-pocket cost of obtaining long-term care services far exceed their financial resources and many have to tap into already insufficient personal and retirement savings. This cannot go on; we must either reform or replace the CLASS program as soon as possible. "There is a cost to doing nothing. I urge my colleagues to join me in opposing the repeal of the CLASS Act and in working together to create a program that will ensure that Americans who require long-term care can both access and afford the services they need. The livelihoods of millions of Americans are at stake. It is time to find real solutions to our nation's real problems." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
02.01.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in response to the Susan G. Komen Foundation's decision to no longer provide funding to Planned Parenthood for breast cancer preventive services, screenings, and education: "I am deeply disappointed in Komen's decision to no longer provide financial support to Planned Parenthood for preventative cancer screenings and services. I have always supported the global movement to end breast cancer and the Susan G. Komen Foundation's efforts to do just that. In fact, for the past two years my staff has participated in the Race for the Cure to support Komen's efforts to eradicate this terrible disease. "Unfortunately, with this decision to no longer partner with Planned Parenthood, Komen has taken a step back from the fight to end breast cancer. I am appalled that a foundation committed to increasing screening rates among women would cut funding to an organization that does just that by providing 750,000 breast cancer screenings a year. At a time when women's health is under direct attack, it is essential to leave political motivations aside. "I hope that Komen will reconsider its misguided decision and do what is best for millions of girls and women in America, by recommitting itself to working with Planned Parenthood to promote breast cancer prevention and health care services." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.31.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced legislation to amend the tax code to prohibit oil companies from writing off expenses incurred when cleaning up after an oil spill as an "ordinary cost of doing business." (Please find attached a copy of the legislation). "ExxonMobile announced annual earnings of $41.1 billion, a 35 percent increase from the previous year. Recently, ConocoPhillips announced $12.4 billion profits for 2011. Chevron's earnings for the year also rose 41 percent to $26.9 billion. These enormous figures indicate that these global corporations no longer need charity from the United States government. For this reason, I have introduced a bill that has been needed at least since the Exxon Valdez spilled 750,000 barrels of oil into Prince William Sound. My bill closes a loophole that permits these big oil companies to pad their bottom lines with tax deductions for cleaning up their oil spills. While the high price of gasoline continues to burden American families, oil companies are raking in such huge profits. Why should the American taxpayer pay for what the oil companies are supposed to do anyway? "Through clever accounting, a big oil company can actually deduct from its tax liability the money it spends cleaning up after an oil spill as an 'ordinary cost of doing business.' These big oil companies used to pay their fair share of taxes on their massive profits. Corporate taxes used to account for 40 percent of federal revenues, but that now has fallen to around seven percent, with many companies paying no taxes at all. At the same time that families, as well as federal, state and local governments, are tightening their budgets, we're letting big oil and gas companies profit from valuable tax revenue that they don't deserve. "The Joint Committee on Taxation estimates that closing this loophole in the tax code will save the American taxpayer an average $1.3 billion per year. With massive cuts to hundreds of essential programs and organizations dedicated to ensuring access to education, affordable health care, homeownership assistance, unemployment insurance, veterans benefits, loans for small businesses, food assistance to prevent hunger, support for farmers growing essential crops, and a middle class that is struggling more than ever, that billion dollars per year would ensure that these programs are not losing tax dollars because exceedingly wealthy companies are reaping the benefits. By eliminating a loophole that lets the largest oil and gas companies benefit from their own mistakes, this bill makes the tax code fair again for hardworking Americans and will put our country on track to develop a clean, sustainable, and sensible energy policy. "I believe the tax code should reflect our country's need to end our reliance on fossil fuels by discouraging blowouts and oil spills and providing incentives for responsible and efficient energy use, and sustainable, clean energy sources. We can no longer afford a 20th century energy policy when the rest of the world is well into the 21st century. From the Keystone pipeline debate to subsidies for oil and gas companies, our antiquated energy policy is reflected in our outdated tax code containing many provisions that have long since outgrown their usefulness. My bill will put our country on the right track. "Finally, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) defines an 'ordinary business expense' as a cost that is both ordinary and necessary. Why are we allowing the cost of an oil spill to be treated as ordinary as purchasing a stapler or paying a phone bill? An oil spill should not be ordinary. From a fiscal standpoint, from a policy standpoint, and from a moral standpoint, even a small oil spill is an extraordinary and terrible mistake with far-reaching consequences. Oil and gas corporations should not be allowed to benefit from their own extraordinary mistakes at the expense of the American taxpayer." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Rep._Hastings_Oil_Spill_Tax_Bill_1.31.12.pdf
01.30.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) and 32 House Democrats sent the following letter to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Julius Genachowski in support of preserving and strengthening the Universal Service Fund's Lifeline program, which is operated jointly by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and state public utility commissions. Lifeline, along with the Link-Up America program, has helped millions of low-income Americans access vital phone service since 1984. Income-eligible consumers may qualify for discounts on one basic monthly telephone service, wireline or wireless, up to $10 per month depending on their state. Joining Hastings in sending the letter are Representatives Ted Deutch (FL-19), Cedric L. Richmond (LA-2), Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan (MP), Raúl M. Grijalva (AZ-7), Grace F. Napolitano (CA-38), Ben Ray Luján (NM-3), Rubén Hinojosa (TX-15), Corrine Brown (FL-3), Charles B. Rangel (NY-15), Albio Sires (NJ-13), Ed Pastor (AZ-4), André Carson (IN-7), Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11), Hansen Clarke (MI-13), John Lewis (GA-5), Pedro R. Pierluisi (PR), Wm. Lacy Clay (MO-1), Janice Hahn (CA-36), Loretta Sanchez (CA-47), Dennis Cardoza (CA-18), Donna M. Christensen (VI), Frederica Wilson (FL-17), Bennie G. Thompson (MS-2), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), Joe Baca (CA-43), G.K. Butterfield (NC-1), Emanuel Cleaver, II (MO-5), Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-3), Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7), Russ Carnahan (MO-3), Melvin L. Watt (NC-12), and Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6). (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter). January 30, 2012 The Honorable Julius GenachowskiChairmanFederal Communications Commission445 12th Street, NWWashington, DC 20554 Dear Chairman Genachowski: We write in support of the Federal Communications Commission's (FCC) efforts to reform and strengthen the Universal Service Fund's Lifeline program. It is our understanding that the FCC will hold its rulemaking regarding the future of Lifeline on January 31st. Once again, we would like to thank you for your ongoing commitment to improving this vital program. The services provided through Lifeline are extraordinarily important to our most economically disadvantaged citizens, who would otherwise be unable to afford them. In order to ensure the integrity of the Lifeline program for years to come, as well as curb waste, fraud, and abuse, we urge you to move forward with creating a national database of Lifeline subscribers and not to institute any mandatory fees. As you outlined in your remarks on January 9th, establishing a national database of Lifeline subscribers will go a long way to keep the program strong and efficient. In particular, we believe that your proposal for a subscriber database will significantly help eliminate waste, fraud, and abuse in the program. To this end, we stand ready to assist you with the implementation of the proposed eligibility database. Furthermore, we welcome your recommendations to eliminate duplicate subscribers and opportunities for carriers to take advantage of the system as necessary steps to reform Lifeline. In addition, we ask that the FCC not institute a "mandatory fee" or other cost prohibitions for Lifeline subscribers. Doing so would dismantle a fundamental benefit of the program, immediately making it inaccessible to a large portion of subscribers. A fee structure would also create considerable logistical hurdles for both Lifeline subscribers and carriers, e.g. many eligible residents do not have access to credit or a checking account and would have a difficult time making a payment for this service. Prior to the inclusion of cell phones in the Lifeline program, many individuals were unable to afford the subsidized landline service. Similarly, we are concerned that customers would be unable to afford mandatory fees and would be dropped from the program as a result. Since 1984, Lifeline and the Link-Up America programs have helped provide millions of low-income Americans with vital phone service. From accessing child and medical care to emergency services and employment, the Lifeline program enables personal and economic empowerment by providing these individuals with opportunities for a better life. It is for these reasons that Lifeline has been, and continues to be, such an important program for our constituents. We are confident that Lifeline can be reformed and strengthened without imposing arbitrary fees on subscribers, and that implementing many of the reforms suggested by your Commission will effectively end waste, fraud, and abuse. Moreover, we applaud your efforts to expand the program to include broadband internet access and ask that you also preserve the spirit of Lifeline in this endeavor. Chairman Genachowski, thank you for your consideration of this important matter. We look forward to seeing your complete recommendations and final rulemaking for the Lifeline program at the end of this month. It is our sincere hope that this continued dialogue will serve to strengthen Lifeline in meeting the needs of low-income Americans in our 21st century economy and society. If you should have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact us. Sincerely, Alcee L. HastingsMember of Congress Ted DeutchMember of Congress Cedric L. RichmondMember of Congress Gregorio Kilili Camacho SablanMember of Congress Raúl M. GrijalvaMember of Congress Grace F. NapolitanoMember of Congress Ben Ray LujánMember of Congress Rubén HinojosaMember of Congress Corrine BrownMember of Congress Charles B. RangelMember of Congress Albio SiresMember of Congress Ed PastorMember of Congress André CarsonMember of Congress Marcia L. FudgeMember of Congress Hansen ClarkeMember of Congress John LewisMember of Congress Pedro R. PierluisiMember of Congress Wm. Lacy ClayMember of Congress Janice HahnMember of Congress Loretta SanchezMember of Congress Dennis CardozaMember of Congress Donna M. ChristensenMember of Congress Frederica WilsonMember of Congress Bennie G. ThompsonMember of Congress Sheila Jackson LeeMember of Congress Joe BacaMember of Congress G.K. ButterfieldMember of Congress Emanuel Cleaver, IIMember of Congress Robert C. "Bobby" ScottMember of Congress Elijah E. CummingsMember of Congress Russ CarnahanMember of Congress Melvin L. WattMember of Congress Gregory W. MeeksMember of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Rep._Hastings_-_Congressional_Letter_to_FCC_Chairman_-_Lifeline_Program_-_1.30.12.pdf
01.27.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) submitted the following statement for the record for a field hearing held by the Senate Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights and Human Rights entitled "New State Voting Laws II: Protecting the Right to Vote in the Sunshine State," which was held today in Tampa, Florida. (Please find below and attached a copy of the statement). "Mr. Chairman, the foundation of our democracy was and continues to erode under a coordinated, systematic attack spanning the nation. Many state governments have threatened the integrity of our elections with recently enacted laws creating barriers to the polls and unnecessarily restricting voter registration. Florida Governor Rick Scott recently signed into law one such measure, HB 1355. That law limits access to the polls for minorities, seniors, and college students. It also makes early voting much more difficult and imposes unnecessarily burdensome regulations on voting registration groups. "These laws taking effect in Florida and across the country are problematic because they will disenfranchise minorities, seniors and college students, many of whom voted for President Obama in the 2008 election. For example, more than 21 million Americans lack a government ID, a disproportionate number of whom are low-income individuals, minorities and the elderly. The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) reports: 'As many as 25% of African Americans of voting age lack government-issued photo ID, compared to only 8% of their white counterparts. Eighteen percent of Americans over the age of 65 do not have government-issued ID.' "These changes neither improve the election process nor make it more reliable or transparent in any way. Rather, they echo memories from a dark period in American politics when only the privileged few were permitted to vote, and Jim Crow laws were the order of the day. Because these election law changes have the same intent and consequences as voter suppression tools like the poll tax, the new laws are effectively an end-run around Constitutional protections. "The Republican-controlled state legislatures that enacted these laws are deliberately taking the vote away from voters whose votes they don't like. These states are unequivocally recreating offenses from an embarrassingly wrong-headed point in our country's history. Nearly five decades after the elimination of the poll tax, we should be striving to make access to the polls easier, not harder. "Finally, I consider it a privilege to be able to submit my testimony for the record before this Senate Subcommittee. I only wish I were able to similarly testify before one of the Committees in the House with jurisdiction over this issue. Despite a record number of bills restricting the vote enacted last year, the Republican-led House of Representatives has held no hearings in the 112th Congress. Back in November, I, along with almost 40 other Democrats, sent a letter to the House Judiciary Committee and Committee on Oversight and Government Reform requesting a hearing on these practices. "Responsibility seems to only extend to one side of the Capitol on this issue. Not only is there still no hearing scheduled, I have yet to receive a response from either Chairman Lamar Smith or Chairman Darrell Issa. Therefore, I thank the Subcommittee for holding this critically important hearing and calling greater attention to this matter. "Mr. Chairman, while great strides have been made to improve our elections in recent years, problems still persist. Continued efforts to suppress the rights of voters not only threaten our democracy, but also the integrity of our elections. It is time for this to change. If these efforts are allowed to move forward, they will have a devastating effect on our democratic process all across the nation." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Hastings_Statement_for_New_State_Voting_Laws_II_Hearing_1.27.12.pdf
01.26.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) welcomes participants of the Congress-Bundestag Forum to South Florida. The 9th annual Forum will be held from January 28-30, 2012 in Delray Beach, Florida. "I am truly honored that my invitation to have this year's Congress-Bundestag Forum held in South Florida was accepted," said Hastings. "This Forum continues to be a great opportunity to foster dialogue and understanding between elected officials in the United States and Germany. I welcome my colleagues from the U.S. House of Representatives and the German Bundestag to Florida's 23rd District." Considered one of Congress' most respected voices in international affairs and a leader in parliamentary diplomacy, Congressman Hastings serves as the Ranking Democratic Member of the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe (U.S. Helsinki Commission). Hastings' involvement in the Congress-Bundestag Forum and in bringing the Forum to South Florida highlights his continued leadership both domestically and globally. Attending the Forum will be bipartisan Members of the U.S. House of Representatives and Members of multiple parties of the German Bundestag who will also interact with local business leaders and elected officials. "Not only do I hope that this year's Forum will help cultivate better understanding among its participants regarding foreign policy, but also that lasting relationships will be built between elected officials and business leaders from South Florida, the United States, and Germany," further noted Hastings. "After experiencing the local economy firsthand, it is my sincere hope that my colleagues will see the valuable market for goods and services that South Florida can provide now and in the future." Hastings also noted with pride South Florida's place as an exporter of goods and services. "From our world-famous citrus to sugar and computer products to military hardware, Florida companies offer a diverse array of possibilities for the global marketplace." The Congress-Bundestag Forum is a project of the German Marshall Fund and the Robert Bosch Stiftung that brings together influential Members of Congress and Members of the German Bundestag. The purpose of the forum is to promote dialogue among the elected officials of these important countries and to build lasting friendships between colleagues. Expert speakers brief participants on important policy issues and motivate frank and open discussion. Topics range from the global economic crisis to the economic rise of Asia to the balance between cyber security and privacy. Many participants return each year to reunite with their colleagues on the other side of the Atlantic. The Forum is held annually, alternating between the United States and Germany. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.24.2012	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in response to President Obama's State of the Union address: "In the past year, both the nation and the world have seen many changes. We have brought our troops home from Iraq, saw the dismantling of al Qaeda with the death of Osama bin Laden, and the whole world witnessed as many brutal dictators were unseated during the Arab Spring. Unfortunately, this same year brought a multitude of manufactured crises and inaction by House Republicans who failed to address the urgent need for job creation in America. The President is right; the American people can't wait any longer. Enough is enough. We must come together and put the American economy, American jobs, and most importantly, the American people first. "In order to tackle these challenges, we must ensure that everyone is paying their fair share. No more tax breaks for the wealthiest few while those struggling to make ends meet continue to be demonized and have the programs that provide invaluable services for their well-being slashed. One of the first actions that must be taken by Congress this year is to pass a long-term extension of the payroll tax cut and unemployment assistance. We must provide this much-needed assistance to the middle class and to those who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own so that they, too, can achieve the American dream. "Not only must we ensure a more fair economy, we must also create a more robust workforce and help those out of jobs to get back to work. As Co-Chairman of the Democratic Caucus' Jobs Task Force and with my home state of Florida continuing to have one of the highest rates of unemployment in the country, I am acutely aware of the need to create jobs and a skilled workforce, and I am dedicated to doing just that. To this end, I agree with the President that the United States must recommit itself to manufacturing. We can't make it in America if we don't have anything that is made in America. "In addition to increasing domestic manufacturing, we must also invest more in our country's aging infrastructure. For every $1 billion invested in infrastructure construction projects, 18,000 jobs are supported nationwide. And these are jobs and investments in things we all rely on every single day, such as maintaining, repairing, and improving our nation's bridges, roads, schools, and hospitals. I hope that, following on the heels of the compromise to reauthorize the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), a compromise can also be reached to pass a clean, long-term reauthorization for surface transportation programs. We must take immediate action to save and promote jobs and our nation's infrastructure – the backbone of America. "While discussing American energy, I must take this opportunity to point out that increasing American domestic oil production is not a sustainable energy policy for the United States. We must invest in clean, renewable energy to truly achieve energy independence. A green energy policy will create long-term jobs and a sustainable future for American energy, the economy, and the environment. "I believe it is time to shelve the political games and rhetoric that have divided our country over the past several years. We must come together, as one nation, and make America great again." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.18.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement praising the first donation of land to officially create the Everglades Headwaters National Wildlife Refuge and Conservation Area: "By Interior Secretary Ken Salazar accepting the first land donation for the creation of the Everglades Headwaters National Wildlife Refuge and Conservation Area, it is yet another important victory in the battle to restore the Everglades. The donation is a part of President Obama's Great Outdoors initiative, and I am pleased to see the President supporting the Everglades, an issue near and dear to me as a Representative of South Florida. "The Everglades are a national treasure that provide Floridians with clean drinking water, and are home to many endangered and unique species. These kinds of restoration projects drive economic growth by creating jobs for local workers, returning four dollars to our communities for every one dollar invested. The benefits of the Everglades are numerous, and I fully support projects that will further improve upon current conservation efforts." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.18.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (FL-23) and Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) commemorated the ground-breaking of the new Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) air traffic control tower at Fort Lauderdale Executive Airport. The 12-story tower and accompanying 6,900-square-foot base building are scheduled to be completed by mid-2014. "I applaud the FAA's ongoing commitment to safety. Together with the new tower at West Palm Beach and the planned Terminal Radar Approach Control (TRACON) facility at Palm Beach International Airport, Fort Lauderdale Executive Airport's new air traffic control tower has been a long time coming. All equipped with the latest aircraft-tracking technology, these major investments in South Florida will enhance airport efficiency and safety," said Rep. Hastings. "It is important to note that the Executive Airport's new tower, among numerous other airport safety improvement projects across the country, would not be possible without federal airport construction grants," added Rep. Hastings. "In order to ensure the safety of the flying public, as well as protect thousands of aviation and construction jobs, Congress must act swiftly to pass a long-term FAA reauthorization bill before the current extension expires on January 31, 2012. We simply cannot afford to underfund these much-needed safety improvements to our nation's aviation system, nor can we afford to continue passing short-term FAA extensions. "I look forward to the completion of the new tower at Fort Lauderdale Executive Airport, which will help foster general aviation safety in the region for decades to come, and stand ready to support a long-term FAA reauthorization bill free of political riders." "South Florida air traffic is safer today thanks to the FAA's new traffic control towers in Fort Lauderdale and West Palm Beach," said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. "Under the leadership of Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, the FAA has recognized the importance of improving South Florida's aviation capabilities. Further, this is a great boon for our state's economy. I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress on passing a long-term FAA reauthorization bill so that we can continue to preserve jobs while ensuring the safety of air traffic throughout our region." ###
01.17.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) applauded the announcement by Interior Secretary Ken Salazar on the finalization of a rule that would ban the importation and interstate transportation of four nonnative constrictor snakes that threaten the Everglades and other sensitive ecosystems across the United States. "Today's announcement is a real victory for Everglades restoration efforts," said Hastings. "Make no mistake, the abundance of these animals in the wild reflects a pervasive problem of irresponsible handling and ownership. We have all seen the threat these species pose when consuming native wildlife. Furthermore, it makes no sense to spend billions of dollars to preserve and protect the Everglades, and then have these species undo all the hard work that is being done. "Since this decision does not force current owners to give up their snakes, it is clear that the Interior Department carefully considered pet-owners' interests and viewpoints," Hastings further noted. "I appreciate all of the time dedicated to making sure that those financially and emotionally invested in these animals were heard on the matter. "The Burmese python and other constrictor reptiles have wreaked havoc throughout the Everglades, obliterating endangered wildlife, and upsetting the delicate balance of the ecosystem. The need to ban these species, along with other Everglades restoration efforts, is essential in preserving this unique environment and creating jobs in South Florida." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.17.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) sent the following letter to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) Director Richard Cordray in anticipation of a CFPB field hearing. The hearing is expected to take place this week in Birmingham, Alabama on payday lending. In the letter, Hastings urges Director Cordray to balance strong consumer protections with the need for increased access to credit and to treat all short-term products alike, regardless of the provider. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter) January 17, 2012 The Honorable Richard CordrayDirectorUnited States Consumer Financial Protection Bureau1500 Pennsylvania Ave NW (Attn: 1801 L Street NW)Washington, DC 20220 Dear Director Cordray, Congratulations on your recent appointment. It has come to my attention that on Thursday, January 19, 2012, you will be holding a field hearing in Birmingham, Alabama on payday lending and short-term insured depository loan products. As you examine this industry, I wish to respectfully urge you and your staff to ensure an appropriate balance between fostering a regulatory environment that gives consumers of bank and non-bank payday loans, overdraft protection, and bounced check products meaningful safeguards and maintaining broad access to these much needed financial services. In my home state of Florida, we have a payday loan statute that is among the most progressive and effective in the nation. It has become a national standard for balancing strong consumer protections with increased access to credit. It is important that the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) recognize and acknowledge the proactive best practices and radical reforms many lenders that offer payday loans have undertaken, unlike many other sectors in the financial services industry. These reforms, such as the extended repayment plan, encourage the responsible use of short-term loans. I would encourage you to embrace these reforms, and not take actions that would restrict them. Short-term loans are both unique and necessary. Lenders in this space often offer more convenient and less expensive products and services than the banks where these consumers have relationships. In fact, my first loan to start my law practice was with a shotgun loan company. Banks in my community were granting lawyers signature lines of credit, but would not lend to me as an African American lawyer. In some respects, not much has changed. American consumers are currently suffering in an environment of skyrocketing costs of credit and severely limited credit options. As demands for short-term and small dollar loans continue to increase as a result of the current economic environment, so called non-traditional and non-bank lenders have filled a void. Now is not the time to further restrict options or eliminate products from the market. We should work to ensure that consumers who want and need payday loans or other similar short-term credit products will continue to have access to them. I would also strongly urge the CFPB to treat similar products uniformly in its approach to regulation regardless of whether they are offered by banks or non-banks, as well as work to aggressively weed out lenders operating offshore and outside the arms of the law. This is an area that is especially troubling to me, and I strongly urge the CFPB to examine this sector of the short-term credit market that is preying on American consumers. Finally, it is important to note that during the congressional debate on Dodd-Frank, I was assured by then House Financial Services Committee Chairman Barney Frank that in creating the CFPB, it was not our intent to limit access to credit or deny consumers the choice of a payday loan, but rather to ensure the ability of consumers to make informed choices and encourage lending practices that are fair and transparent. It is my sincere hope that you be mindful of that. The result of any new regulations your bureau promulgates should not push borrowers out of products that they have affirmatively chosen into more expensive products, thereby increasing consumer debt. We should be looking for effective ways to educate and assist consumers. It is not in consumers' interest for the federal government to outright eliminate access to products and services. Rather, government should ensure that products remain accessible within a transparent and evenly regulated environment. As you embark on this new role, I commend your continued efforts to protect consumer interests and look forward to working together on this matter and other efforts to ensure the financial well-being of the American people. Thank you for your time and consideration. Sincerely, Alcee L. HastingsMember of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Letter_to_Director_Cordray_re_CFPB_and_payday_loans_1.17.12.pdf
01.12.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the second anniversary of the 7.0 magnitude earthquake that devastated Haiti in 2010: "Two years ago, we watched in shock and horror as images of destruction from the earthquake in Haiti were shown around the world. In the devastation of the 7.0 magnitude earthquake, thousands of Haitians fled to the streets among the crumbling buildings and expansive wreckage. Tens of thousands were killed and many more injured. Those who survived would continue to face unimaginable conditions with a destroyed infrastructure, food shortages, and recurring outbreaks of Cholera and other diseases. "In the wake of this disaster, the world came together to bring relief to the millions of people left devastated by the earthquake. However, while the tragedy has distanced itself in time, the dire need for assistance remains. "We must continue to honor our commitment to our Haitian neighbors with aid and assistance as the nation recovers. To this end, I recently reintroduced legislation calling on a White House Conference on Haiti. This Conference will bring together stakeholders in the rebuilding to identify best practices and gaps in the recovery process in order to more efficiently and effectively help our Haitian neighbors get back on their feet and put their country on the path to long-term recovery. "We must never forget the tragedy caused by the earthquake in Haiti, but by coming together to assist in the recovery and rebuilding of the nation, we can ensure a brighter future for Haiti, our region, and the international community." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.11.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings made the following statement responding to the Committee on Ethics' announcement to continue further review pursuant to Committee Rule 18(a) on the matter pertaining to Winsome Packer. The Committee also announced that they will not impanel an Investigative Subcommittee (ISC). Additionally, the Committee released the Report and Findings from the Office of Congressional Ethics (OCE): "As I have said repeatedly since this matter first came to my attention, I unequivocally deny the allegations made by Ms. Packer. The acts alleged are contrary to my character and to the main objective of my career in Congress, advancing the civil rights of all people. "Furthermore, Ms. Packer's allegations are completely false. I never had a romantic or sexual interest in her, nor did I ever express or otherwise suggest that I had any such interest. "After having months to investigate these very serious – and false – claims, the Office of Congressional Ethics did not find any evidence to substantiate Ms. Packer's allegations. The OCE's report parrots Ms. Packer's allegations, but it does not credit her statements as truthful or point to any evidence that corroborates her claims. Instead, the OCE referred the matter to the Committee on Ethics on the chance that the Committee might be able to uncover some evidence to which the OCE was not privy. "The OCE's report ignores the contradictions in the various versions of Ms. Packer's stories. It also disregards the testimony of disinterested third parties that directly contradicts Ms. Packer's allegations. "The OCE also completely failed to assess Ms. Packer's motivations. Ms. Packer has a self-published book entitled, A Personal Agenda, which she has stated 'seeks to provoke its readers by examining ... sexual harassment in Congress' and supposedly was 'inspired by her own experiences.' "Ms. Packer began publicizing her book in June 2010, shortly before she lodged her complaint against me. And in her personal offerings she has indicated that she plans to write a sequel. The OCE did not explore the connection between the complainant's allegations and her side career as a novelist. "It is also no coincidence that Ms. Packer is represented by Judicial Watch, a conservative organization that has targeted Democrats in general and me in particular. Judicial Watch's representation of Ms. Packer is a marriage of convenience. Ms. Packer's lawsuit, like her book, is a fictitious effort to promote her 'personal agenda' – including increasing sales of her novel. This effort will fail as no amount of political maneuvering can obscure the truth; Ms. Packer's allegations are false and without merit. "I look forward to the Committee on Ethics' review of these bogus charges, and am confident that it will conclude, as have the Counsel of the House Employment Counsel and the United States Justice Department, that the claims are false." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
01.11.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) sent the following letter to Egyptian Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi condemning the recent raids of several non-governmental organizations (NGOs), including three U.S. groups. Joining Hastings in sending this bipartisan letter in support of democracy in Egypt and in condemnation of the NGO raids are (27): Representatives Ted Poe (R-TX), John Carter (R-TX), Gary Peters (D-MI), John W. Olver (D-MA), Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Michael M. Honda (D-CA), Michael E. Capuano (D-MA), Gus Bilirakis (R-FL), John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), James P. McGovern (D-MA), Albio Sires (D-NJ), Frank R. Wolf (R-VA), Loretta Sanchez (D-CA), Jim McDermott (D-WA), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Hansen Clarke (D-MI), Ann Marie Buerkle (R-NY), Trent Franks (R-AZ), John Garamendi (D-CA), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Dan Burton (R-IN), James P. Moran (D-VA), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Michael T. McCaul (R-TX), Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), and Glenn 'GT' Thompson (R-PA). (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter). January 11, 2012 Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein TantawiPresident of the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces of the Arab Republic of EgyptCairo Dear Field Marshal Tantawi: We write to condemn the recent raids by Egyptian authorities of 10 non-governmental organizations (NGOs), including three U.S. groups: the National Democratic Institute, the International Republican Institute, and Freedom House. These raids were a direct attack on civil society and seriously call into question whether your government is committed to a transition to a democratic Egypt. They mark a considerable step back from even what was allowed under the Mubarak regime. We believe that the investigations of these NGOs must cease immediately, that confiscated property be returned, and strongly urge your government to allow civil society to act unfettered. Since 1975, Egypt has received well over $50 billion in U.S. aid – much of it for the military. As stipulated by Congress in the Fiscal Year 2012 appropriations bill the U.S. State Department must certify that, "the Government of Egypt is supporting the transition to civilian government including holding free and fair elections; implementing policies to protect freedom of expression, association, and religion, and due process of the law." Cracking down on the very groups that promote these conditions gives us great concern. It is our sincere hope that your government will immediately reverse its actions, and demonstrate a strong commitment to democracy, human rights, and the rule of law. Furthermore, we hope and expect that the Government of Egypt recognizes the role of NGOs in creating and preserving a free society and that it will respect their independence in the future. Finally, we trust that the United States can be a committed partner in those endeavors for many years to come. Sincerely, Alcee L. HastingsMember of Congress Ted PoeMember of Congress John CarterMember of Congress Gary PetersMember of Congress John W. OlverMember of Congress Lloyd DoggettMember of Congress Michael M. HondaMember of Congress Michael E. CapuanoMember of Congress Gus BilirakisMember of Congress John Conyers, Jr.Member of Congress James P. McGovernMember of Congress Albio SiresMember of Congress Frank R. WolfMember of Congress Loretta SanchezMember of Congress Jim McDermottMember of Congress Sheila Jackson LeeMember of Congress Carolyn B. MaloneyMember of Congress Hansen ClarkeMember of Congress Ann Marie BuerkleMember of Congress Trent FranksMember of Congress John GaramendiMember of Congress Jan SchakowskyMember of Congress Dan BurtonMember of Congress James P. MoranMember of Congress Ted DeutchMember of Congress Michael T. McCaulMember of Congress Stephen F. LynchMember of Congress Glenn 'GT' ThompsonMember of Congress Cc: The Honorable Hillary Rodham ClintonSecretary of State, U.S. Department of State The Honorable Anne W. PattersonU.S. Ambassador to Egypt, Embassy of the United States of America, Cairo, Egypt H.E. Sameh ShoukryAmbassador of Egypt to the United States, Embassy of the Arab Republic of Egypt Major General Mohamed ElkeshkyDefense, Military, Naval, and Air Attaché, Embassy of the Arab Republic of Egypt Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Congressional_Letter_to_Egyptian_Field_Marshal_Tantawi_-_NGO_Raids.pdf
01.04.2012	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement regarding President Obama appointing Richard Cordray as the head of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB): "Mr. Cordray is qualified and prepared to head the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and deserved fair consideration by the Senate. Though the process is far from ideal, the President's responsibility is to the American people, not the childish whims of Senate Republicans. Presidents going back to George Washington have used recess appointments. Even George W. Bush made over 170 such appointments. "With a director at the helm, the CFPB can finally begin to fulfill its congressional mandate to protect consumer interests. For far too many years, Wall Street was allowed to run rampant. It is time for someone to look out for Main Street. "As he takes his place at the helm of the CFPB, it is my sincere hope that Mr. Cordray will continue to protect consumer interests as he has done throughout his career, without adversely impacting members of the financial services community that have continually made good faith efforts to adhere to sufficient, existing state regulations." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.21.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement recognizing National Homeless Persons' Memorial Day. This day has been observed annually since 1990 to remember those who have lost their lives due to the tragedy of homelessness, and to bring attention to the need to end homelessness. "Last December, the House of Representatives passed H.Con.Res. 325, a resolution that I introduced supporting the goals and ideals of National Homeless Persons' Memorial Day. I am proud to recognize this important day again this year, and express my deepest sympathies to those who have lost loved ones to this tragedy. "The current state of our economy has greatly exacerbated national homelessness. It is estimated that over half a million people experience homelessness on any given night in the United States. Of those in the homeless population, 12 percent are veterans, and 17 percent are considered chronically homeless. These numbers highlight the fact that we are witnessing a growing human rights crisis right here at home. This is a crisis that cannot be ignored. "As Co-Founder and Co-Chairman of the Congressional Caucus on Homelessness, I understand that we must and can do more to end homelessness. I urge my colleagues to join me in recognizing National Homeless Persons' Memorial Day by working together to prevent and end homelessness." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.20.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement blasting House Republicans for failing to vote on legislation to extend the payroll tax cut, extend unemployment assistance, and fix the Medicare physician payment rate for two months. The compromise agreement passed in the Senate by an overwhelmingly bipartisan vote of 89-10 on Saturday, and was supported by 39 Republican Senators, including all of the Republican Leadership: "I caution House Republicans that they are committing political suicide with this decision to not bring up the Senate compromise on extending payroll tax cuts for two months, while a long-term deal continues to be worked out. Instead, they are foolishly attempting to force a conference committee with the Senate. I have news for my Republican colleagues, the Senate has left town after passing this compromise legislation, and I don't believe they have any intention of returning to Washington. "Nothing should be lost on the fact that by failing to pass this two-month extension, we have kicked the can down the road. By walking away from this bipartisan agreement, House Republicans have demonstrated that they never intended to give the middle class a tax cut in the first place. Their utter failure to pass the Senate bill raises the question of whether they are actually capable of governing. They have already cost the United States a downgrade in our credit score, and now they will cost the average household a $1,000 tax increase. The Republicans were wrong to not pass this legislation, and unfortunately Americans all across this nation will soon suffer the consequences of their inaction." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.19.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced the Affordable Mortgage for Homeowners Act. This legislation would reduce the interest rate on all mortgages owned or guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac to the current, more affordable interest rate, which averages four percent. (Please find attached a copy of the legislation). "As our nation is recovering from the worst recession and housing crisis in decades, millions of homeowners continue to struggle to make their mortgage payments and keep their homes. Approximately 22 percent or 10.7 million of homeowners owe more on their mortgages than their homes are worth. In 2011, two million households received a foreclosure filing. Furthermore, the total mortgage debt overhang in the United States approaches $700 billion dollars. The state of Florida is by far one of the hardest hit regions in the country. "During the height of the subprime mortgage crisis in 2008, many recognized that it was the predatory lending practices of mortgage lenders that pushed millions of homeowners to purchase homes they could not afford. Today, millions of responsible homeowners have underwater mortgages, because of these unscrupulous lending practices and declining home values. I refuse to let American families struggle through no fault of their own. "While the U.S. government has established programs to help homeowners who are both current and in default on their mortgages, it has not been enough. Indeed, many households did not qualify for these programs or were not aware of their existence. My bill will fix this problem by requiring Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to reduce the interest rate on all the mortgages they own to the current interest rate, which averages four percent. Homeowners who have a better mortgage product or want to opt out will be exempted. My bill is the first program that will directly help millions of homeowners and address the housing crisis comprehensively. "Homeownership is a central part of the American dream. Ensuring that people are able to maintain this critical investment is essential to achieving sustainable growth and economic development in our communities. Millions of responsible Americans continue to bear the cost of this economic crisis. I find this to be unacceptable. They deserve fair and affordable mortgages that allow them to plan for the future. This is why I urge my colleagues to take a major step towards ending the housing crisis and support this important legislation." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Affordable_Mortgage_for_Homeowners_Act_of_2011.pdf
12.16.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) reintroduced the White House Conference on Haiti Act of 2011. This legislation calls on the President to convene a White House Conference on Haiti within the next calendar year. The conference would bring together major stakeholders in the rebuilding, along with other interested parties to share their knowledge and best practices and identify gaps in the recovery process. (Please find attached a copy of the legislation). "In January of last year, a 7.0 magnitude earthquake rocked the already struggling nation of Haiti. Approximately three million people were affected and 230,000 are estimated to have died. Those who survived continue to face unimaginable conditions with a crumbling infrastructure and recurring Cholera outbreaks. "Immediately following the earthquake, we witnessed countless foreign governments and aid organizations pledging to stand with Haiti, and I have been inspired by the numerous individuals throughout the globe who have donated their talents and services to the recovery and the many more who are eager to help, but simply don't know how. We cannot let this opportunity go to waste. "The Conference will highlight innovative ideas for rebuilding and redevelopment in Haiti. From inexpensive hurricane and earthquake-proof housing and green building techniques to sustainable economic practices and urban development. There are countless companies and individuals who have developed groundbreaking concepts in response to this tragedy, but they have yet to be connected with those who can put these ideas into practice or with others pursuing similar goals who may be able to improve upon their initiatives. Innovation does not happen in a bubble; great things can happen when great minds come together. "While the United States has been instrumental in the recovery and rebuilding from countless natural and man-made disasters throughout the world, few international tragedies have had as deep an impact on the United States, and particularly the State of Florida, as this one. "Our nation's rapid, comprehensive response, from our government down to everyday Americans, has been commendable, but the President and this administration are in a position to do more. "At a time of continued instability and crisis, the United States must do all within its power to help ensure a long-term sustainable recovery for Haiti." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### White_House_Conference_on_Haiti_Act_of_2011.pdf
12.16.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement regarding the reinstatement of the federal funding ban on syringe exchange programs in the omnibus spending bill. The id="mce_marker" trillion measure funds nine federal agencies for the remainder of FY 2012, including the Department of Health and Human Services. As included, the omnibus spending package states that no funds appropriated shall be used to carry out any program distributing sterile needles or syringes for the hypodermic injection of any illegal drug. Currently, states and local governments have the option of using federal funds for syringe exchange programs in accordance with local policy. As a result of this flexibility, several states support syringe exchange programs as part of a comprehensive strategy to address their epidemics. "According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 12 percent of all new HIV infections in the United States occur among injection drug users, who transmit the virus to others by sharing contaminated syringes and engaging in high-risk sexual behaviors. Furthermore, injection drug use remains the leading cause of new hepatitis C infections. "Effective HIV/AIDS and hepatitis C prevention among injection drug users requires a multifaceted approach. Syringe exchange programs are a scientifically appropriate intervention for helping prevent HIV and hepatitis C transmission among these individuals. They create a safe environment for injection drug users to access sterile syringes, as well as comprehensive health and counseling services. "Syringe exchange programs serve as a gateway to mental health, substance abuse, and other health care services for individuals living with addiction, while helping protect law enforcement officers and public safety by taking syringes off the street. Furthermore, they have been proven to help lower health care costs. Averting one HIV infection through syringe exchange services costs approximately $4,000 to id="mce_marker"2,000 compared to more than $355,000 to treat and care for a person living with HIV/AIDS over a lifetime. "Reinstating the ban on the use of federal funds for syringe exchange programs threatens to reverse the progress that we have made in preventing the transmission of HIV and hepatitis C among injection drug users. When implemented as part of a comprehensive HIV/AIDS prevention strategy, syringe exchange programs are an effective public health tool in preventing HIV in communities that choose to use them and do not increase illicit drug use. In fact, the Journal of the American Medical Association credits syringe exchange programs with helping to lower HIV incidence by 80 percent among people who inject drugs. "We must ensure that our nation's public health policy is driven by science. Syringe exchange programs are supported by a broad range of public health organizations and the HIV/AIDS community. I remain committed to working with my colleagues in Congress to make sure that states and local governments have the ability to determine which HIV/AIDS prevention efforts are most appropriate for their population." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.15.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the United States formally ending the Iraq War: "As we approach the holidays, it is with a warm heart that I welcome the return of the remaining U.S. troops from Iraq and thank them for their service and sacrifice. I also take this time to remember those whose lives were lost in the past nine years. I still struggle with the enormous cost of this war: with 4,500 American lives lost and tens of thousands more wounded, how do we answer the question of why they were in Iraq in the first place? Why did this nation commit close to $1 trillion on a war we did not have to fight? "In the fall of 2002, I voted against using troops in Iraq. I believed then and still believe today that this was not a war of necessity, but rather a war of choice and convenience. It saddens me that it took nearly nine years to remove our Armed Forces from a situation that they should not have been in in the first place. As the United States leaves Iraq, we owe it to the troops, their families, and the American people to ensure that an unnecessary war such as this is not fought again. And we must also ensure the safety of U.S.-affiliated Iraqis whose lives will be at risk as the United States withdraws its troops from the country. "We will never forget the sacrifice of our servicemen and women. They performed admirably under immensely difficult circumstances. This holiday season I am thankful for their service and that at long last, this misguided war is over." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.14.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement blasting the passage of the Conference Report for H.R. 1540, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012. The measure passed the House by a vote of 283-136. "It has been more than ten years since the attacks of September 11. We have fought two wars, and have engaged in military action in numerous other countries. Hundreds of thousands of people have died, and many more have been wounded. We have spent more than a trillion dollars. Osama bin Laden is dead, and Obama administration officials have declared that al-Qaeda is 'operationally ineffective'. "We should take this opportunity at this moment in our history to seriously and carefully deliberate our nation's counterterrorism efforts. We ought to consider which polices are effective and which, in the end, only create more anti-American sentiment. We ought to consider which policies align with our national values and which, instead, undermine them. We ought to consider whether we should continue using the full thrust of the United States Armed Forces in country after country, or whether a more nuanced approach might better serve our needs. "Unfortunately, the legislation before us does not attempt to answer these questions. Instead, it commits us to drive even further down the road of fear. It commits us to more war and more wasteful spending. And it commits us to ceding our freedoms and liberties on the mere suspicion of wrongdoing. "This legislation establishes an authority for open-ended war anywhere in the world, and against anyone. It commits us to seeing a 'terrorist' in anyone who ever criticizes the United States in any country, including this one. The lack of definitions as to what constitutes 'substantial support' and 'associated forces' of al-Qaeda and the Taliban mean that anyone could be accused of terrorism. "While this measure includes an exemption for U.S. citizens, it does not protect them from indefinite detention. In one fell swoop we have set up a situation where American citizens could have their 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, and 8th amendment rights violated on mere suspicions. This legislation goes too far. "We spend billions of dollars every year on counterterrorism, but we weaken those efforts by tossing aside our own system of justice. We tell the American public that we are fighting overseas in order to protect our freedoms, but then we pass legislation that undermines those very same freedoms here at home. And we tell the rest of the world to emulate our democratic traditions and our rule of law, but we disregard those values in a mad rush to find out who can pretend to be the toughest on terrorism. "We will not defeat terrorism by using the military to lock up innocent people for the rest of their lives on the mere suspicion of wrongdoing. We will not defeat terrorism by claiming the entire world as a battlefield. And we will not defeat terrorism by replacing our rule of law with reckless, uncontrolled, and unaccountable powers. "I appreciate that the Republican majority doesn't want their holiday season ruined by having to work, but that doesn't mean we have to ruin everyone else's holiday season by passing bad laws that take us even further down the dangerous path we are currently heading." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.02.2011	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in response to President Obama's announcement committing an additional $15 million to the Ryan White Program and $35 million to the state AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP): "As we continue to observe AIDS Awareness Month, which began yesterday with World AIDS Day, I applaud President Obama for his leadership and commitment to providing much-needed additional funding for the Ryan White Program and ADAP. This will go a long way in helping to ensure that millions of individuals and families affected by HIV/AIDS have access to the health care and support services they need. In addition, it will help provide lifesaving drugs to the more than 6,500 individuals living with HIV/AIDS currently on state ADAP waiting lists nationwide. I urge the President to work with the Department of Health and Human Services and Congress to secure these funds as soon as possible and stand ready to assist in this effort." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
12.01.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in commemoration of the 23rd annual World AIDS Day: "This year marks the 30th anniversary of the AIDS epidemic, which continues to impact our nation and world in profound ways. The Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) reports that 34 million people are living with HIV/AIDS worldwide, and more than two million adults are newly infected with HIV each year. In the United States, nearly 1.2 million people are living with HIV/AIDS, and about one in five people living with HIV/AIDS are unaware of their infection. "World AIDS Day is a tremendous opportunity for all people – including scientists, health care providers, government officials, organizations, and activists – to rededicate themselves to ending the global HIV/AIDS epidemic. This year's World AIDS Day theme is "Getting to Zero," which underscores our resolve to put a stop to new HIV infections, discrimination, and AIDS-related deaths. As we remember loved ones lost to this terrible disease, we are reminded of both the great progress we have made and the challenges we still face in understanding, treating, and preventing HIV/AIDS. "Through the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) and the Global Fund, we are helping to reduce the burden of HIV/AIDS in developing countries. In fact, new HIV infections across the globe are at their lowest levels since 1997. However, the continued commitment of the United States to HIV/AIDS research, prevention, and treatment programs is crucial to maintaining this momentum and protecting global health. "Here at home, HIV/AIDS remains a significant public health challenge that disproportionately affects many different communities. In my Congressional district and throughout the State of Florida, over 3,000 individuals living with HIV/AIDS are still waiting for access to life-saving antiretroviral treatment and other vital services. This is the result of an ongoing funding crisis facing our nation's AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP) that has forced 12 states nationwide to create waiting lists, currently totaling more than 6,500 individuals living with HIV/AIDS, and cut services. "While it is clear that we must do more to improve access to treatment, we are also making progress in the struggle to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS every day. Most recently, scientists in California have successfully demonstrated that gene therapy can prevent the transmission of HIV in mice. I applaud the innovative work of the researchers involved with this project and look forward to future scientific breakthroughs in HIV/AIDS treatment and prevention. I also encourage the continued development of promising new therapies and improvements in clinical treatment for HIV/AIDS, especially by small business biotechnology firms. "As a member of the Congressional HIV/AIDS Caucus, I remain dedicated to protecting the rights of individuals living with HIV/AIDS as well as to ensuring that they have reliable access to the care they need and deserve. I will also continue working with my colleagues to support domestic and international programs, legislation, and other initiatives to address HIV/AIDS. In addition, with the XIX World AIDS Conference (AIDS 2012) scheduled to take place in Washington, DC next year, I am committed to leading new and innovative efforts in Congress to support advances in HIV/AIDS treatment, prevention, and education. "This World AIDS Day, we are closer to a future without HIV/AIDS than ever before. Together with the global health community, we have the means to bring an end to HIV/AIDS once and for all. What we need now is leadership." Congressman Hastings has been a longtime advocate for the HIV/AIDS community. In the 112th Congress, he introduced H.R. 1774, the Increasing Access to Voluntary Screening for HIV/AIDS and STIs Act of 2011, which increases coverage for voluntary, routine HIV/AIDS and STI testing while preserving patient rights and confidentiality, as well as a resolution (H.Res.360) in support of the sixth IAS Conference on HIV Pathogenesis, Treatment, and Prevention. Congressman Hastings also helped secure $48 million in additional funding for our nation's AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP) in the full-year Continuing Resolution for FY 2011, and hosted a Congressional staff briefing on racial disparities and AIDS survival. In addition, he continues to support robust funding for the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program, including the HIV/AIDS Treatment Modernization Act, the Minority HIV/AIDS Initiative, and the National AIDS Strategy. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.22.2011	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the failure of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to reach an agreement: "I am deeply disappointed that the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction could not reach an agreement to reduce the nation's deficit in a bold and balanced manner. Unfortunately, it has become clear that Republicans were not interested in compromise. "Week after week on the House floor, I continue to plead with my colleagues about the millions of Americans who are struggling to find jobs, keep their homes, and provide for their families. To me, this is a very sad day, and quite frankly a missed opportunity. "I do hope that from this missed opportunity, Congress can finally come together and get back to the business of working to create jobs, reduce our deficit, and get our nation's fiscal house in order." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.18.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in observance of the World Day of Remembrance for Road Traffic Victims, which will be observed on Sunday, November 20, 2011: "I offer my thoughts and prayers to all those who have lost loved ones to road crashes. All over the world, in every country and locality, traffic accidents remain an ongoing peril and a source of preventable tragedy. As we embark on the Decade of Action for Road Safety, we should pause to remember who it is that we are fighting for. "Road traffic crashes kill nearly 1.3 million people every year and injure or disable as many as 50 million more. The leading cause of death throughout the world for people ages 10 to 29 is not disease or war, but road crashes. Even today, we can expect that 1,000 people under the age of 25 will die on the world's roads. "These numbers are dramatically increasing and place particular strain on developing nations, where crash rates are highest. In developing countries, road crashes have a dramatic impact on their fragile economies, costing an estimated $100 billion and often exceeding the total amount received by these countries in development assistance. Furthermore, road crashes affect first responder services, health care services, and health insurance services, as many victims require extensive, and expensive, critical care, as well as follow-up care and rehabilitation "In October 2005, the United Nations General Assembly adopted a resolution which calls for governments to mark the third Sunday in November each year as World Day of Remembrance for Road Traffic Victims. The day was created as a means to give recognition both to victims of road traffic crashes and to the plight of their relatives who must cope with the emotional and practical consequences of these tragic events. "This Day of Remembrance also calls attention to the necessary policies needed to improve transportation management, infrastructure, vehicle safety, education, and post-crash care and rehabilitation. Here in the United States it is of the utmost importance that we continue to support public policies designed to reduce key risk factors like speeding, drunk driving, distracted driving, and the failure of many Americans to use seat belts, child restraints, and other safety devices "The Decade of Action for Road Safety has not been declared to merely raise awareness, but also to take action. We all use roads, cars, buses, and bicycles every day. It is easy to take our safety for granted. But too many tragedies remind us that road fatalities and injuries have an enormous impact on our lives. As Americans travel the world more and more and as our global society grows ever more close-knit, the pressing importance of our observance of the World Day of Remembrance only grows as well. "No one should die because of entirely preventable traffic accidents. We must do everything we can to raise awareness and address the underlying causes. On this year's Day of Remembrance, let us pay extra attention to ways we can make the world a safer place." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.18.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) reintroduced the National Commission on Employment and Economic Security Act of 2011. This legislation is a necessary and vital investment for our nation's workforce and their families. It will establish a national commission to examine issues of economic and psychological insecurity within our workforce that have been caused by employment displacement. Further, it will propose solutions, including recommendations for legislative and administrative action, to Congress and the President. (Please find attached a copy of the legislation). "Since the recession began in December 2007, more than 5.1 million jobs have been lost. In October 2011, the unemployment rate remains firm at 9 percent, and it is much higher in many states like Florida, at 10.6 percent, and it has topped 11 percent in Michigan, California, South Carolina, and the District of Columbia. "Over the past year, unemployment rates have increased in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. The scope of the economic downturn is so large that its impact is felt virtually everywhere along the economic spectrum. "While Americans lose their jobs and their incomes shrink, too often, they face the loss of their family's health insurance and, subsequent to the loss of income, even their housing. According to an American Psychological Association September 2010 report, money (76 percent), work (70 percent) and the economy (65 percent) remain the most frequently cited sources of stress for Americans. Perhaps even more disturbing, calls to the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline have increased by more than 72 percent from 2007 to 2010. "The mental health of the American worker will be integral on the road to economic recovery. Congress must face this problem head on and help the very people who are facing unemployment, loss of health insurance, home foreclosure, stress, increased violence, and depression. It is time that we create this Commission and get our nation back on track. "I believe that we have a responsibility to ensure the greatest possible assistance to our nation's workforce, whose commitment to economic participation has been a defining feature of the cultural fabric of our country. I urge my colleagues to support this legislation." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### National_Commission_on_Employment_and_Economic_Security_Act_of_2011.pdf
11.17.2011	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) will be the keynote speaker at Broward County's Transgender Day of Remembrance Candlelight Vigil on Saturday, November 19th at 6:00 p.m. at the Sunshine Cathedral in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. The Candlelight Vigil is an annual event to remember transgender individuals whose lives have been lost due to anti-transgender bias, prejudice, and hatred. The Vigil also seeks to raise public awareness of issues affecting the transgender community. DETAILS: WHO: Congressman Alcee L. Hastings WHAT: Broward County's Transgender Day of Remembrance Candlelight Vigil WHEN: Saturday, November 19, 2011 at 6:00 p.m. WHERE: The Sunshine Cathedral (1480 SW 9th Avenue, Fort Lauderdale, Florida) Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.16.2011	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement criticizing the passage of H.R. 822, the National Right-to-Carry Reciprocity Act of 2011. This measure passed the House of Representatives today by a vote of 272-154. H.R. 822 strips states of the right to make their own decisions about whether to recognize other states' concealed carry permits, forcing states to recognize concealed carry permits from any other state regardless of differences in the states' concealed carry policies and criteria. "I think it is absolutely absurd that this institution voted to let just about anybody carry a concealed weapon anywhere across this nation. States have put forward a considerable amount of time trying to determine just what is best for their citizenry with reference to safety. State legislatures have intensely debated and ultimately decided their own standards for who can carry a loaded concealed weapon in their communities. This legislation eliminates many of those standards, reducing concealed-carry permitting to a lowest common denominator imposed by Congress as a Federal mandate. "While I am extremely disappointed that this measure passed the House, I believe it is highly unlikely it will ever see the light of day in the Senate. It has been almost a year now since the Republicans took back control of Congress. And yet, all they seem concerned about is reaffirming 'In God We Trust' as the national motto, weakening the Environmental Protection Agency, and watering down gun safety laws. Instead of focusing on their partisan agenda, we should be working to create jobs and grow the economy." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.14.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) sent the following letter to Chairman Tom Latham and Ranking Member John Olver of the Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies of the House Committee on Appropriations, requesting increased funding for the Department of Housing and Urban Development's (HUD) McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Grants in the final FY 2012 Transportation-HUD Appropriations Act. Joining Hastings in sending the letter are Representatives Eddie Bernice Johnson, Gwen Moore, Madeleine Bordallo, Robert Brady, Corrine Brown, David Cicilline, Emanuel Cleaver, Gerald Connolly, Joe Courtney, Danny Davis, Ted Deutch, Keith Ellison, Eni F.H. Faleomavaega, Bob Filner, Marcia Fudge, Al Green, Raúl Grijalva, Luis Gutiérrez, Rubén Hinojosa, Mazie Hirono, Jesse L. Jackson, Jr., Hank Johnson, Dennis J. Kucinich, Rick Larsen, Barbara Lee, Ben Ray Luján, Carolyn Maloney, Doris Matsui, Carolyn McCarthy, Jim McDermott, Jim McGovern, Jerry McNerney, Gregory Meeks, George Miller, Bill Pascrell, Jr., Mike Quigley, Laura Richardson, Bobby L. Rush, Jan Schakowsky, Louise Slaughter, Pete Stark, Ed Towns, Chris Van Hollen, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Mel Watt, and Frederica Wilson. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter). November 14, 2011 The Honorable Tom LathamChairmanSubcommittee on Transportation, Housingand Urban Development, and Related AgenciesH-307 CapitolWashington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable John OlverRanking MemberSubcommittee on Transportation, Housingand Urban Development, and Related Agencies1016 Longworth HOBWashington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Latham and Ranking Member Olver: Thank you for your commitment to expanding resources for preventing and ending homelessness. Based on their proven track record and the number of people experiencing homelessness in our communities, we respectfully urge you to provide an increase in funding for the Department of Housing and Urban Development's (HUD) McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Grants in the final FY 2012 Transportation-HUD Appropriations Act. Investment in HUD's Homeless Assistance Grants will help prevent and end homelessness in the midst of one of America's deepest economic crises, when we are seeing increasing numbers of people experiencing or at risk of homelessness. According to the most recent data from HUD, nearly 650,000 people are homeless on a given night in America, including nearly 110,000 who are chronically homeless and 241,000 persons in families. HUD also estimates that approximately 76,000 veterans are homeless on a given night. Further increases in homelessness are expected in the coming years if nothing is done. It is simply unacceptable for our nation's heroes, families with children, and others to be sleeping on the streets. Communities like ours need to make substantial progress in implementing the Homeless Emergency Assistance and Rapid Transition to Housing (HEARTH) Act of 2009, a landmark reauthorization of homeless assistance that applies two decades of research, innovation, and experience to improve HUD's homeless assistance programs. It supports solutions like permanent supportive housing for chronically homeless people, which can actually save taxpayer dollars by helping to stabilize people cycling in and out of expensive systems. The Recovery Act's Homelessness Prevention and Rapid Re-Housing Program (HPRP) has served 1,000,000 people to date, but these funds are running out and homelessness is increasing. The HEARTH Act will allow communities to transition their successful HPPR initiatives into their long-term efforts to prevent and end homelessness and to continue the focus on cost-effective solutions to chronic homelessness. During these tough economic times, we must work to support lasting solutions to homelessness funded through McKinney-Vento programs. In the October 17, 2011 Statement of Administration Policy regarding H.R. 2112, the Senate minibus, the Administration expressed its support for providing additional funds for Homeless Assistance Grants in FY 2012 in order to "enable progress on implementing the HEARTH Act and the Federal Strategic Plan to End Homelessness." Funding these important priorities will not only allow our communities serve the increasing number of people in need of assistance, but will also help our communities to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of their homeless assistance systems. Chairman Latham and Ranking Member Olver, we urge you to provide an increase in funding in the final FY 2012 Transportation-HUD Appropriations Act for the HUD Homeless Assistance Grants program to help the hundreds of thousands of Americans who are homeless each night and to more fully implement the HEARTH Act. Thank you for considering this request, and for your continuing leadership on efforts to prevent and end homelessness in the United States. Sincerely, Alcee L. HastingsMember of Congress Eddie Bernice JohnsonMember of Congress Gwen MooreMember of Congress Corrine BrownMember of Congress Rubén HinojosaMember of Congress Luis V. GutiérrezMember of Congress Raúl M. GrijalvaMember of Congress Edolphus TownsMember of Congress Laura RichardsonMember of Congress Carolyn MaloneyMember of Congress Keith EllisonMember of Congress Pete StarkMember of Congress Barbara LeeMember of Congress Al GreenMember of Congress Louise M. SlaughterMember of Congress Bob FilnerMember of Congress Emanuel Cleaver, IIMember of Congress Chris Van HollenMember of Congress Mike QuigleyMember of Congress Hank JohnsonMember of Congress Mazie K. HironoMember of Congress Gregory W. MeeksMember of Congress Carolyn McCarthyMember of Congress Frederica WilsonMember of Congress Robert BradyMember of Congress Ben Ray LujánMember of Congress Jan SchakowskyMember of Congress Debbie Wasserman SchultzMember of Congress Rick LarsenMember of Congress Danny K. DavisMember of Congress Jerry McNerneyMember of Congress Madeleine BordalloMember of Congress Bobby L. RushMember of Congress Marcia L. FudgeMember of Congress William Pascrell, Jr.Member of Congress Joe CourtneyMember of Congress Jesse L. Jackson, Jr.Member of Congress George MillerMember of Congress Jim McDermottMember of Congress Jim McGovernMember of Congress Gerald E. ConnollyMember of Congress Doris MatsuiMember of Congress Ted DeutchMember of Congress Eni F.H. FaleomavaegaMember of Congress Dennis J. KucinichMember of Congress David CicillineMember of Congress Melvin L. WattMember of Congress CC: The Hon. John Boehner The Hon. Nancy Pelosi The Hon. Harold Rogers The Hon. Norm Dicks Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Letter_to_THUD_Approps_re_HUD_Homelessness_Program_Funding_11.14.11.pdf
11.10.2011	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in honor of Veterans Day, which will be officially observed on November 11, 2011: "On this day, I honor America's veterans, who have courageously served our nation. These brave men and women deserve a debt of gratitude for their commitment to protecting the liberties that are the foundation of our country. "As we recognize their selfless dedication and accomplishments, we must be reminded of the challenges many veterans face when returning home from tours in Iraq and Afghanistan. Unfortunately, upon returning to civilian life, many suffer from severe physical and mental wounds. In fact, 20 percent of all suicides in the United States are veterans. Furthermore, 25 percent of those who find themselves homeless are veterans and many of them are also unemployed. These figures are extremely alarming and quite frankly, unacceptable. "As we welcome home the thousands of American troops currently deployed overseas, we must ensure that they receive the benefits they rightly deserve. It is imperative that we provide the very best educational, medical, and employment benefits available to assist with their transition back home. "I encourage all Americans to honor our nation's veterans. My thoughts and prayers are with those brave men and women and their families. Let us remember those who have fought, those who have returned, and those who have not. We are forever indebted to their courage and dedication as well as their service to this great nation." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
11.10.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) sent the following letter to Postmaster General Patrick R. Donahoe expressing serious concern over the potential closure of two United States Postal Service (USPS) mail processing centers in Broward County. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter). November 10, 2011 Mr. Patrick R. DonahoePostmaster General & CEOUnited States Postal Service475 L'Enfant Plaza, SWWashington, DC 20260-0010 Dear Mr. Donahoe, I write to express my serious concerns regarding the potential closure of the Fort Lauderdale mail processing center, located in my Congressional district, as well as the Pembroke Pines facility. As you know, the United States Postal Service (USPS) is exploring various measures in order to economize its operations and is conducting a study of approximately 250 processing facilities, which include the Fort Lauderdale and Pembroke Pines mail processing centers. The Fort Lauderdale facility has been serving the South Florida community for over 38 years, while the Pembroke Pines mailing processing center has been in business for 20 years. Both of these centers provide critical services to many of my constituents, local businesses, and residents living in Broward County. If these facilities are closed, well over 200 jobs are projected to be lost, which will adversely affect the entire community during these already difficult economic times. Furthermore, the loss of these processing centers would end the century-old tradition of all mail posted in Broward County bearing the postmark, "mailed from Ft. Lauderdale." I urge you reevaluate the wisdom behind this restructuring measure; preserve the quality of mail service; and, should closure prove to be unavoidable, ensure that all employees affected retain employment and benefits with the USPS. Please know that I will continue to monitor this situation very closely, and ask to be kept informed of the overall progress of this matter. Thank you for your consideration and I look forward to your response. Sincerely, Alcee L. HastingsMember of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Rep._Hastings_Letter_to_Postmaster_General_-_Broward_Processing_Centers_11.10.11.pdf
11.09.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) sent the following letter to Chairman Lamar Smith and Ranking Member John Conyers of the House Committee on the Judiciary and Chairman Daniel E. Lungren and Ranking Member Robert A. Brady of the Committee on House Administration, expressing concerns with changes states have made to their elections laws and requesting that their Committees hold hearings to assess the impact of these changes on voter rights. Joining Hastings in sending the letter are Representatives Corrine Brown (FL-3), Ted Deutch (FL-19), Frederica Wilson (FL-17), G.K. Butterfield (NC-1), Karen Bass (CA-33), John Lewis (GA-5), Jesse L. Jackson, Jr. (IL-2), Laura Richardson (CA-37), Silvestre Reyes (TX-16), Jared Polis (CO-2), Terri A. Sewell (AL-7), Yvette D. Clarke (NY-11), Rush Holt (NJ-12), Kathy Castor (FL-11), Andre Carson (IN-7), Donna M. Christensen (VI), Charles Gonzalez (TX-20), Rubén Hinojosa (TX-15), Pete Stark (CA-13), Carolyn Maloney (NY-14), Sam Farr (CA-17), Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30), Barbara Lee (CA-9), Jan Schakowsky (IL-9), Michael Honda (CA-15), Hank Johnson (GA-4), Emanuel Cleaver (MO-5), Donna F. Edwards (MD-4), Keith Ellison (MN-5), Danny K. Davis (IL-7), Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2), Al Green (TX-9), Steve Cohen (TN-9), John Garamendi (CA-10), Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-34), José E. Serrano (NY-16), and Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC). (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter). November 9, 2011 The Honorable Lamar SmithChairman, House Committee on the Judiciary2138 Rayburn House Office BuildingWashington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable John Conyers, Jr.Ranking Member, House Committee on the JudiciaryB-351 Rayburn House Office BuildingWashington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Daniel E. LungrenChairman, Committee on House Administration1309 Longworth House Office BuildingWashington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Robert A. BradyRanking Member, Committee on House Administration1307 Longworth House Office BuildingWashington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Smith, Ranking Member Conyers, Chairman Lungren and Ranking Member Brady: We write to express our concern regarding recent actions taken by state legislatures across the nation to significantly change their states' election laws. These widespread changes have the potential to affect the upcoming 2012 elections, as well as the Constitutional rights of millions of Americans. We, therefore, request that your Committees hold hearings to assess the impact that these changes will have on states and voter rights. As you know, the right to vote is guaranteed by the Constitution and a cornerstone of our democracy. We should be making it easier for Americans to vote, not harder. Over 30 states have enacted or attempted to enact laws that will create barriers to voting, among them: Florida's HB 1355, signed into law by Gov. Rick Scott, limiting access to the polls for minorities, seniors, and college students, as well as limiting early voting days and imposing new restrictive regulations on voter registration groups; Alabama requiring proof of citizenship and government-issued photo identification in order to vote and Texas having similar voter ID requirements; Maine eliminating same-day registration; and Wisconsin requiring voters to show a government photo identification card at a polling state before they can vote. The Voting Rights Act is the primary tool used to protect voters from these kinds of political exploitations. Designed to enforce the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments of the Constitution, the Act covers a vast range of activities that affect voters. According to the Supreme Court, determining whether a voting-related change is in violation of the Voting Rights Act is contingent upon whether the change "would lead to a retrogression in the position of racial minorities with respect to their effective exercise of the electoral franchise." Simply put, the aforementioned laws that have been enacted by states all across our nation seriously undermine the rights of voters. Congress has the Constitutional authority to act to protect the rights of all voters. In the face of voter suppression laws being enacted across the nation, Congress must determine the extent of the problem and provide appropriate remedies. Despite years of progress, inequities and obstacles still remain. We must work together to strengthen our nation's democracy and ensure that the voting rights of all Americans are protected. Again, we respectfully request that the Committees hold a hearing to address this extremely important matter. Thank you for your time and consideration. We respectfully ask that you keep us informed of our request. If you have any further questions, please do not hesitate to contact us directly. Sincerely, ___________________Alcee L. HastingsMember of Congress ____________________Corrine BrownMember of Congress ____________________Ted DeutchMember of Congress ____________________Frederica WilsonMember of Congress ____________________G.K. ButterfieldMember of Congress ____________________Karen BassMember of Congress ____________________John LewisMember of Congress ____________________Jesse L. Jackson, Jr.Member of Congress ____________________Laura RichardsonMember of Congress ____________________Silvestre ReyesMember of Congress ____________________Jared PolisMember of Congress ____________________Terri A. SewellMember of Congress ____________________Yvette D. ClarkeMember of Congress ____________________Rush HoltMember of Congress ____________________Kathy CastorMember of Congress ____________________Andre CarsonMember of Congress ____________________Donna M. ChristensenMember of Congress ____________________Rubén HinojosaMember of Congress ____________________Pete StarkMember of Congress ____________________Carolyn MaloneyMember of Congress ____________________Sam FarrMember of Congress ____________________Eddie Bernice JohnsonMember of Congress ____________________Barbara LeeMember of Congress ____________________Jan SchakowskyMember of Congress ____________________Michael HondaMember of Congress ____________________Charles GonzalezMember of Congress ____________________Hank JohnsonMember of Congress ____________________Emanuel CleaverMember of Congress ____________________Donna F. EdwardsMember of Congress ____________________Keith EllisonMember of Congress ____________________Danny K. DavisMember of Congress ____________________Sanford D. Bishop, Jr.Member of Congress ____________________Al GreenMember of Congress ____________________Steve CohenMember of Congress ____________________John GaramendiMember of Congress ____________________Lucille Roybal-AllardMember of Congress ____________________José E. SerranoMember of Congress ____________________Eleanor Holmes NortonMember of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Voter_Suppression_Hearing_Request_Letter_11.9.11.pdf
10.27.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) sent the following letter to Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano and Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator Craig Fugate in support of increased funding for the Miami/Ft. Lauderdale Urban Areas Security Initiative (UASI). Joining Hastings in sending the letter are Representatives Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-18), Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-21), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20), Tom Rooney (FL-16), Ted Deutch (FL-19), David Rivera (FL-25), Allen West (FL-22), and Frederica Wilson (FL-17). (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter). October 27, 2011 The Honorable Janet NapolitanoSecretaryU.S. Department of Homeland SecurityNebraska Avenue Center, NWWashington, DC 20528 The Honorable Craig FugateAdministratorFederal Emergency Management Agency500 C Street, SWWashington, DC 20472 Dear Secretary Napolitano and Administrator Fugate: We write to express our strong support for the inclusion of the Miami/Ft. Lauderdale Urban Areas Security Initiative (UASI) as a Tier I funding recipient under the annual UASI grant program. Given a scheduled funding reduction of 44 percent for FY 2011, as well as proposed reductions for FY 2012, we are deeply concerned about the ability of the partnering counties, municipalities, and other participating entities to continue meeting the strategic homeland security needs of the Miami/Ft. Lauderdale UASI. Therefore, we urge the Department of Homeland Security and Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to help safeguard the Miami/Ft. Lauderdale UASI against potential threats by ensuring that it receives the support and resources it needs and deserves. With over 5.6 million residents living throughout Palm Beach, Broward, Miami-Dade, and Monroe Counties, the Miami/Ft. Lauderdale UASI represents a densely populated, high-threat urban area that is at elevated risk for terrorism and natural disasters. As a center of agriculture, banking, health care, telecommunications, and transportation, it is critical to our nation's homeland security. The Miami/Ft. Lauderdale UASI includes over 100 municipalities, four international airports, three major convention centers, four international seaports, and other critical utility and water infrastructure. Port Everglades is South Florida's primary storage and distribution center for refined petroleum products, supplying nearly one-fifth of the entire state's energy requirements ranging from propane and gasoline to diesel and jet fuel. Furthermore, the Miami/Ft. Lauderdale UASI is of immense significance to our nation's strategic interests and the public safety, serving as the home to U.S. Southern Command (USSOUTHCOM), Homestead Air Reserve Base, U.S. Coast Guard operations at Air Station Miami and Station Miami Beach, the National Access Point (NAP) Center of the Americas, Turkey Point Nuclear Power Plant, and the National Hurricane Center. The Miami/Ft. Lauderdale UASI also encompasses Lake Okeechobee and the Herbert Hoover Dike, which is central to agriculture, flood control, water conservation, and the preservation of fish and wildlife populations. If the Lake or Dike were compromised, it would disrupt drinking water supplies and agricultural irrigation requirements, endangering South Florida and much of Central Florida. Thus, we request that you score and incorporate appropriate values for Lake Okeechobee, the Herbert Hoover Dike, the NAP Center, and other critical assets and risks that are currently excluded from the risk assessment formula. Moreover, as the gateway to Latin America, the Miami/Ft. Lauderdale UASI is of vital importance to our nation's commerce, international trade, and tourism. Millions of legal border crossings occur in South Florida via air and sea each year, representing billions of dollars' worth of activity from passenger flights, cargo operations, cruises, and related industries. Despite numerous significant risk factors, however, the current UASI methodology only takes into account legal land border crossings. The Miami/Ft. Lauderdale UASI covers over 300 miles of coastline and remains at risk for human, drug, and arms trafficking, organized crime, money laundering, and other threats. Additionally, cruise ships are highly visible targets carrying thousands of passengers and crew in and out of South Florida ports. We request that the Department and FEMA take these threats into account in the risk assessment formula and give credit for aircraft and ship crossings, including the assignment of equal value to passengers filling cruise ship beds as to those who stay in hotel rooms. South Florida's dense and diverse population, substantial commercial and economic activity, and indispensable transportation and utility infrastructure reflect significant vulnerability, with implications for the entire nation that necessitate Tier I resources. Given the Miami/Ft. Lauderdale UASI's unique risk factors, we request that the Department and FEMA implement comprehensive adjustments, including those mentioned above, to the UASI scoring model in order to reflect regional profiles and give proper weight and consideration to actual infrastructure and transnational threats. Furthermore, we ask that any UASI funding reductions be distributed equally among all UASIs, and based on FY 2010 amounts in order to preserve the existing capabilities developed since 2003. Secretary Napolitano and Administrator Fugate, as Congress considers future spending and deficit reduction proposals, it is our sincere hope that the Department of Homeland Security and FEMA will assess the merits of the Miami/Ft. Lauderdale UASI fairly and recognize it as a Tier I funding recipient within the UASI program. We appreciate your attention to this important matter and look forward to working together with you to ensure the continued security of our communities, the State of Florida, and our nation as a whole. Should you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact us. Sincerely, Alcee L. HastingsMember of Congress Ileana Ros-LehtinenMember of Congress Mario Diaz-BalartMember of Congress Debbie Wasserman SchultzMember of Congress Tom RooneyMember of Congress Ted DeutchMember of Congress David RiveraMember of Congress Allen WestMember of Congress Frederica WilsonMember of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### South_Florida_Delegation_Letter_Regarding_Miami-FTL_UASI_-_10_27_11.pdf
10.27.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (FL-23) and Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) applauded the Federal Aviation Administration's (FAA) announcement to build a new Terminal Radar Approach Control (TRACON) facility at Palm Beach International Airport (PBIA) in West Palm Beach, Florida that will coincide with the new tower currently under construction. TRACONs monitor and direct air traffic within 30 to 50 nautical miles of major airports from the time an aircraft's landing gear lifts off the ground up to 23,000 feet. The current Tower and TRACON were commissioned in 1969. "I am truly elated that the FAA has decided to build a TRACON at PBIA and keep those critical safety functions here in West Palm Beach," said Rep. Hastings. "TRACONs are vitally important to our nation's air transportation network and a dedicated TRACON at PBIA will not only maintain but, in some cases, improve local and regional service as well as enhance system safety by offering additional air traffic control service to South Florida. The new TRACON at West Palm Beach can act as a backup system to the TRACON in Miami while Miami does the same for West Palm Beach." "This is welcome news for South Florida," said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. "Having a TRACON at Palm Beach International Airport is a great boon for our state's economy and overall air traffic safety. The TRACON currently in place at PBIA has been long overdue for upgrades, and now thanks to Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood and the FAA, the dream will become a reality. I look forward to working with the FAA and the rest of the Florida delegation as we track the progress of the new TRACON facility and usher in a new era in aviation for South Florida." "I commend FAA Administrator Babbitt for his leadership in bringing this project one step closer to reality," further noted Rep. Hastings. "In addition, I would also like to thank my fellow colleagues from Florida who have been a part of this journey over more than five past years. Without their interest and continuous support, this announcement may not have happened today. "However, I would be terribly remiss if I did not take this opportunity to also recognize our nation's air traffic controllers and their President Paul Rinaldi. These dedicated men and women work 24 hours a day, 365 days a year to make sure that we reach our destinations as safely and quickly as possible. They are the reason that we have the safest air traffic control system in the world, and that is why we must continue to support them. "Additionally, I have also had the pleasure of getting to know many members of the National Air Traffic Controllers Association (NATCA) in and around my district in South Florida, and I can personally attest to the remarkable job they do. Their dedication and professionalism are truly exceptional. NATCA has been, and continues to be, an instrumental partner with me and the FAA in realizing a TRACON at PBIA. "As we move forward with modernizing our nation's air traffic control system, we must ensure that air traffic controllers are best equipped to continue delivering the highest levels of service to those flying within our airspace. Building and keeping a TRACON at PBIA is the right thing to do, and I stand ready to assist the FAA in making sure that the transition to the new tower takes place as smoothly and quickly as possible. This is indeed a great day for South Florida." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.24.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in response to the 7.2 magnitude earthquake that struck southeast Turkey on Sunday, October 23, 2011: "My thoughts and prayers are with the people of Turkey, and especially those who have lost loved ones to this most tragic event. We have recently witnessed far too many tragedies caused by natural disasters such as this. I commend all those working on the ground in Turkey to provide much-needed assistance to this devastated region. I stand shoulder-to-shoulder with the people of Turkey and Turkish-Americans during this difficult time." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.24.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar), Co-Chairman of the Congressional Tunisia Caucus, applauded the first democratic elections in Tunisia, which were held on Sunday, October 24, 2011. "Yesterday the people of Tunisia made history. After decades of authoritarian rule, Tunisia finally held free and fair elections, which is an extremely important first step toward democracy. I was heartened to see millions of people so enthusiastic about casting their vote freely at the polls. They waited in long lines patiently in order to participate in this historic moment. "It is my sincere hope that the people of Tunisia will continue to move their nation towards freedom and prosperity, and that their democratically elected government will draft a national constitution that protects human rights and democracy for all." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.21.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on President Obama's announcement regarding troop withdrawal in Iraq: "I am relieved to hear that, after almost nine long years in Iraq, our troops are coming home. The decision to bring all American troops home from Iraq by the end of this year is the right thing to do. We have asked our servicemen and women, and their families, friends, neighbors, and communities, for too much sacrifice. After over 4,400 deaths, tens of thousands of injuries, and $1 trillion spent, it is past time to end our military commitment. "The men and women of our nation's Armed Forces have admirably performed difficult work under extremely hard circumstances. They are to be commended for their dedication. They are owed our thanks. We must do everything we can to ease their transition back into society, to care for our veterans, and to ensure that our nation never forgets their sacrifices. I look forward to their return." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.20.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the killing of Libyan dictator Muammar Qaddafi: "Muammar Qaddafi was a brutal dictator and I'm glad to see him gone. The Libyan people are finally free from his oppression. For over forty years, Qaddafi has inflicted atrocious acts of violence on both the Libyan people and the international community. From the Lockerbie bombing over Scotland in 1988 to this year's mass murder of peaceful demonstrators within Libya, he was one of the world's worst dictators in recent history. "After forty-two years of repression and violence, justice has finally been served. Qaddafi's regime of intimidation, violence, and lack of respect for human life was reprehensible, and cheated generations of Libyans out of their basic human rights. The international community must remain vigilant against dictators such as Qaddafi. I hope that his demise will send a strong message to all others employing such violence and repression that good will always prevail over evil. "Now the Libyan people can continue to transition their nation to one that embraces freedom and peace and protects the rights of all people. We must continue to stand with the people of Libya as they move forward in a post-Qaddafi era." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.18.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement welcoming the release of Israeli Defense Forces (IDF) Staff Sergeant Gilad Shalit on October 18, 2011: "Today, the world is rejoicing the release of Gilad Shalit. The abduction of Sergeant Shalit by the militant group Hamas was a horrific act of aggression. He was 19 years old at the time, and efforts to end his prolonged incarceration in Gaza have become an emotional cause for the people of Israel and the international community. "It has been five long years. And yet, Gilad did not give up. He has demonstrated an unwavering and determined will, provided inspiration, and garnered support from the world. I am humbled by his courage and share this joyous occasion with Gilad's parents who never gave up hope that one day they would see their son again. "As we celebrate Sergeant Shalit's freedom, we must do so with a heavy heart. Throughout the past five years, Hamas, in direct violation of international human rights law, refused to allow Gilad any contact with his family, and further refused to allow the International Committee of the Red Cross to have access to him. I pray that this indefensible act by Hamas never happens again. "I also would like to extend my most sincere gratitude to the Egyptian and German governments for helping to broker this landmark deal. "I stand firmly in solidarity with Gilad Shalit, his family, and the people of Israel in support of human rights and call for an end to Hamas's war crime tactics of holding soldiers hostage in order to compel the Israeli government to accede to their demands." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.13.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) blasted the passage of H.R. 358, the Protect Life Act, which prohibits federal funds from being used to pay for abortion services or any health plan that includes such coverage. This Republican-sponsored bill also imposes new restrictions on health insurance coverage for abortion care and expands conscience protection laws while limiting access to reproductive health services. "My Republican colleagues should be absolutely ashamed of themselves. Instead of working to create jobs for the millions of Americans struggling all across this nation, they have decided they would rather spend time considering a bill that is a direct attack on a woman's constitutionally protected right to choose and that does not create one single job. Furthermore, it stands no chance of becoming law and is a complete waste of time. "What the Republicans have decided to do is resort back to their old bag of tricks by pulling out the 'abortion card' in order to score political points with their base and hide the fact that they have yet to pass a jobs bill. "The Protect Life Act poses a direct threat to the health and lives of women by restricting access to abortion services, including factually accurate information such as the availability and coverage of abortion care by insurance plans. This is beyond irresponsible; it is reprehensible. "All I hear from my colleagues on the other side of the aisle is that they want the government to butt out. Why, then, are we considering legislation that effectively overturns the privacy rights enumerated by the Supreme Court, as well as increases burdensome government regulations on insurance companies? Congress and, for that matter, men in this institution, should not be making personal health care decisions for women. That should be between a woman, her family, and doctor. "The Republican arguments are full of fuzzy facts and they have continually pushed through legislation this year that has weakened environmental protections; cut funding for child nutrition, the unemployed, and Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries; and torn to shreds any form of a social contract. So whose lives are we protecting here?" Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.12.2011	Yesterday, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2349, the Veterans' Benefits Training Improvement Act of 2011, under suspension of the rules. Included in this legislation is H.R. 923, the Veterans Pensions Protection Act of 2011, which was introduced by Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) on March 3, 2011. H.R. 923 protects veterans from losing their pensions because they received payments to cover expenses incurred after an accident, theft, loss, or casualty loss. (Please find attached a copy of the legislation). "I would like to express my strong support of H.R. 2349, the Veterans' Benefits Training Improvement Act of 2011. This important legislation makes much-needed improvements to benefits and services for our nation's veterans. It improves the claim-processing system by establishing a pilot program to assess the skills of employees responsible for processing veterans' claims, authorizing the use of electronic communication to contact claimants regarding their benefits, and assisting veterans in obtaining private records, among others. "Included in this legislation is a bill that I sponsored entitled, the Veterans Pensions Protection Act of 2011 (H.R. 923). My bill protects veterans' pensions by exempting the reimbursement of expenses related to accidents, theft, loss or casualty loss from being included into the determination of a veteran's income. Under current law, if a veteran is seriously injured in an accident or is the victim of a theft and receives insurance compensation, he or she may lose their pension if the payment exceeds the income limit set by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. This means that the law effectively punishes veterans when they suffer from an accident or theft. "Such a tragedy happened to one of my constituents, a Navy veteran with muscular dystrophy who was hit by a truck when crossing the street in his wheelchair. His pension was abruptly cut off after he received an insurance settlement payment to cover medical expenses for himself and his service dog, and material expenses to replace his wheelchair. As a result, he could not cover his daily expenses and mortgage payments and almost lost his home. To me this is unacceptable. "I am extremely pleased that H.R. 923 was incorporated into H.R. 2349 and I want to thank my Florida colleague, Chairman Jeff Miller, as well as Subcommittee Chairman Jon Runyan and Ranking Member Jerry McNerney for their continued support on this important issue. "At a time of economic hardship, it is essential to guarantee the continuity of our veterans' pensions and ensure that no veteran will have their benefits unfairly and abruptly depreciated or cancelled. "Our nation's servicemen and women are currently fighting two wars abroad and engaged in action in other parts of the world. As they return home, many bear the mental and physical wounds incurred in the defense of our nation and deserve the highest quality care and services that we can provide them. I am proud to see the House of Representatives take this important step towards protecting our nation's veterans by passing this much-needed legislation." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### HR_2349.pdf
10.12.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in response to the State of Florida's request to waive the federal preclearance requirements under the 1965 Voting Rights Act for five Florida counties, which include Hillsborough, Monroe, Collier, Hardee, and Hendry: "I am outraged, and I hope that all Floridians are as mindful of Governor Rick Scott, Secretary of State Kurt Browning, and the Florida Legislature's design to suppress votes in the state of Florida. We have had some of the most degrading experiences through the years, including the 2000 elections. They are a part of a calculated effort of voter suppression around the country, and they should be ashamed of themselves." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.11.2011	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) will be hosting a Congressional staff briefing on racial disparities and AIDS survival on Thursday, October 13th at 1:00 p.m. in room 122 of the Cannon House Office Building in Washington, DC. This briefing will feature Dr. Mary Jo Trepka, Associate Professor of Epidemiology and Biostatistics at Florida International University's (FIU) Robert Stempel College of Public Health and 2011 recipient of the Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers. Dr. Trepka will be presenting her latest research, which focuses on racial disparities in AIDS survival to help explain why African Americans diagnosed with HIV/AIDS have lower survival rates than Hispanics and non-Hispanic whites diagnosed with the disease. DETAILS: WHAT: Congressional Staff Briefing on Racial Disparities and AIDS Survival WHEN: Thursday, October 13, 2011 from 1:00 – 2:00 p.m. WHERE: 122 Cannon House Office Building (Washington, DC) Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.06.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement recognizing National Breast Cancer Awareness Month: "This month we stand together with those who have bravely faced this disease, as well as to raise awareness toward finding a cure. "I am proud to wear the pink ribbon pin in support of National Breast Cancer Awareness Month and to recognize the importance of early detection in an effort to eradicate this disease, including encouraging women and men to follow recommended screening guidelines. Furthermore, we must make certain that every woman has access to regular mammography screenings. "For more than 20 years, the observance of National Breast Cancer Awareness Month each October has provided a time for us all to reflect on loved ones who have won and lost the battle against breast cancer. "Every two minutes, a woman is diagnosed with breast cancer, and every thirteen minutes one woman will die of breast cancer in the United States. In Florida alone, an estimated 15,330 new cases of invasive breast cancer will be diagnosed in women in 2011 and 2,690 of these women will die from this disease. These statistics are some of the many reasons I am a supporter of legislation and action that aids the fight to end breast cancer. I have also signed the National Breast Cancer Coalition's Congressional Declaration of Support for Breast Cancer Deadline 2020. By declaring my support to end breast cancer by January 1, 2020, I am proud to commit to continuing to educate myself and my constituents about the issues surrounding breast cancer. "Unfortunately, today we see a decline in screening rates. A recent study of 1.5 million women found that of those over the age of forty, with health insurance, less than fifty percent had received the recommended annual screening. The key to ending this disease is early detection, which reduces costs associated with the disease. The costs for early stage treatment are estimated at approximately $22,350 per person, while late stage treatment costs nearly $120,000 per person. Early detection of this life threatening disease is crucial to saving lives and ultimately reduces the burden on patients and our health system. "There are 2.5 million breast cancer survivors living in the U.S. today. They are the embodiment of bravery, as well as to the importance of promoting awareness about breast cancer, following recommended guidelines, offering treatment to those affected, and continuing to fund ground-breaking research. "I commend those advocates, survivors, and men and women who fight the disease every single day. In honor of National Breast Cancer Awareness Month, I encourage everyone to make a renewed commitment to following recommended screening guidelines and I will continue the effort here in Congress to eradicate breast cancer by supporting breast health awareness, education, research, screening and referrals." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.06.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement condemning the Iranian government's conviction of Pastor Youcef Nadarkhani. Additionally, he sent a letter to President Obama supporting the Administration's position of urging the release of Pastor Nadarkhani, who is facing execution for refusal to recant his faith. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter). "When the activists' voices in Iran are being silenced and innocent people are being thrown in jail, the international community is needed the most to support the Iranians who are fighting on the ground. And, then, we must follow up this voice with real action. "Should this execution be carried out, it would mark the first time since 1990 that an Iranian pastor was killed for his Christian faith. "Since his arrest in 2009, the Iranian regime has claimed that Pastor Nadarkhani was convicted for apostasy, a crime which does not exist in Iranian law but rather, was ordered by an Ayatolla's fatwa which is now being said to reign supreme. In recent days, the deputy governor of the Gilan province, Gholomali Rezvani, has now come out with a statement: 'He is guilty of security-related crimes,' one of which includes Zionism. "The United States stands with the international community and all Iranians against the Iranian government's hypocritical statements and actions, and we continue to call for a government that respects the human rights and freedom of all those living in Iran. "My thoughts and prayers are with Pastor Nadarkhani, his wife, and his two children at this most difficult time." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. October 6, 2011 The Honorable Barack ObamaPresident of the United StatesThe White House1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NWWashington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President, I write to express my support for the Administration's position with regards to urging the release of Pastor Youcef Nadarkhani from Iranian prison and condemning Pastor Nadarkhani's conviction. Sentencing a person to death for their religious beliefs goes against everything our modern world stands for. The case of Pastor Youcef Nadarkhani is extremely disconcerting and we must vigilantly fight to raise global awareness about the absence of democracy and human rights in Iran and to bridge the gap between the people of Iran and the international community. Pastor Nadarkhani is one of many community leaders, students, human rights activists, other dissidents and members of religious and ethnic minorities who are persecuted by the Iranian authorities for expressing opinions or beliefs, which diverge from official viewpoints. I will continue to dedicate my efforts in the fight to eradicate all forms of hatred and zealously defend the fundamental freedoms and rights of all human beings around the world. It is specifically appalling to continue to witness religious minorities being systematically targeted by Iran's tyrannical regime. Bahais, Christians, Zoroastrians, and Jews all face serious repression. Moreover, Iranians who share a different viewpoint from the government themselves become victims to the same persecution. Political, racial, and religious hatred must be addressed forcefully by the international community. Speaking out is a necessary step to promote awareness of these injustices and to ensure that a climate of intolerance is not being fostered by the current Iranian government. Again, I thank you for your continued leadership on this matter. With warm regards, I remain, Sincerely, Alcee L. HastingsMember of Congress Cc: The Honorable Hillary Rodham Clinton, Secretary of State ### LETTER_to_President_Obama_re_Pastor_Nadarkhani_in_Iran_10-6-11.pdf
10.05.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced the Fairness in the American Tax Code Act of 2011. (Please find attached a copy of the legislation). "During these difficult economic times, the wealthiest of Americans should be paying their fair share in taxes. Our nation's unemployment rate is over nine percent and yet, we have the lowest tax rates in decades. Why are we giving tax breaks to Wall Street CEOs and Big Oil Executives, instead of helping the millions of Americans who are struggling? "Thanks to loopholes in the tax code, the rich keep getting richer. The top one percent of earners are responsible for 20 percent of the nation's annual income, up from 10 percent in 1981. The wealthiest CEOs are paid 400 times what the average worker earns. Only 30 years ago, it was 20 times as much. "Since President Ronald Reagan started lowering tax rates up until President George W. Bush slashed capital gains and income tax rates for the wealthy to their current historic lows, the wealthy have continued to pay less and less in taxes. As I travel throughout my district, into areas where the unemployment rate is over 40 percent, I ask myself where are the jobs and where did all the money go? "Americans in the highest tax bracket are supposed to pay 35 percent of their income in taxes. However, since President Bush slashed the capital gains rate to 15 percent, the top 400 wealthiest Americans, for example, pay only 15 percent in taxes on 80 percent of their income. As the law is currently written, any wealthy American paying the full 35 percent needs to get a new accountant. "My bill simply asks the wealthiest to pay their fair share. It produces a progressive 'job creation' surtax for those making more than $350,000. The surtax increases gradually until those with incomes over $10 million are paying the same amount on all their income as the legally required statutory rate. It is time for the wealthiest of Americans to pay their fair share in taxes. "An editorial in the New York Times recently noted: 'Critics also claim that raising the capital gains rate would hamstring investment. But economists studying the historical record have concluded that the effect is small, dwarfed by considerations like profit growth. The truth is that despite the current low tax rates, American businesses - small and big - are investing very little. Business surveys show that the main reason is that there are very few customers with money to buy their products.' "The wealthiest Americans have rigged the tax system in their favor to the detriment of the middle class. They've changed the rules to their own financial advantage. My bill will make our nation's tax code fairer. "Investing in America is the only way that we are going to create jobs. The Fairness in the American Tax Code Act of 2011 ensures the investments made for strictly personal gains are investments that will actually create jobs in America. I certainly hope my colleagues on both sides of the aisle will join me in supporting this critically important piece of legislation that will help to put our nation's economy back on track." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Fairness_in_the_American_Tax_Code_Act_of_2011.pdf
10.04.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) congratulated Linsey Brewster-Jenkins of Fort Lauderdale, Florida, on receiving the 2011 Angels in Adoption Award. Hastings nominated Brewster-Jenkins for the award, which is given through the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI) to an individual, couple or organization that has made extraordinary contributions on behalf of children in need of homes. "I was proud to nominate Linsey Brewster-Jenkins for the 2011 Angels in Adoption Award and am thrilled to see her recognized with this honor," said Hastings. "Linsey is a courageous young woman who gives selflessly to the children and youth of South Florida." Linsey currently works at HANDY in Broward County as an Intake and Outreach Specialist, providing direct services to children ages birth to 23 years who have been removed from their homes due to domestic violence, substance abuse, physical and/or sexual abuse, and abandonment. Linsey and the rest of the staff at HANDY also serve older youth who are aging out of the foster/relative care system. HANDY's programs provide children with safety and well being, education, social and recreational activities, and advocates to give these children a voice. "When Linsey was a child in the foster care system, she was helped by HANDY and today spends every day of her adult life giving back to the community and advocating for South Florida's marginalized youth. She has even adopted four children of her own and now has a wonderful family with six children who are likewise very proud of their mother. Linsey is truly committed to assisting all children who need help and I am so proud to honor her with the 2011 Angels in Adoption Award." Brewster-Jenkins will join other 2011 Angels in Adoption winners in traveling to Washington, D.C. this week, where they will participate in training events, celebrate their achievements, and bring much-needed attention to the fostering and adoption processes. For more information on Angels in Adoption, please visit: www.angelsinadoption.org. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
10.04.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced a resolution commemorating the city of Delray Beach, Florida on its 100th anniversary. (Please find attached a copy of the resolution). "I pay tribute today to the city of Delray Beach on the occasion of its centennial celebration. For 100 years, the city of Delray Beach has symbolized the American spirit: looking ahead in times of prosperity; enduring in times of difficulty; and always rising to meet the challenges that have at times weighed on our countries history. "From its modest beginnings as an agricultural area in 1894, Delray Beach quickly grew, attracting many visitors in the winter months. On October 9, 1911, with a population of nearly 300, the area of Delray was chartered by the State of Florida as an incorporated town. Industrial plants for the canning of pineapples and tomatoes were built, bringing in new residents and ushering in an era of prosperity. By 1920, Delray's population had reached over 1000 residents. Today, it is estimated that more than 65,000 people call the city of Delray Beach home. "The city has seen its share of highs and lows throughout the years. The early 1900s saw Delray prosper, only to experience economic hardships by the Great Depression. By the 1930s, Delray was again flourishing, only to find itself in engulfed in the unrest faced by our nation during the civil rights movement. But Delray Beach, like our country, endured. "In the 1980s, prosperity was again seen changed to decay, as many of the small mom-and-pop stores that lit the downtown area were forced to close their doors. But today, even in the face of economic hardships, Delray Beach has united to create a plan for redevelopment and revitalization that has transformed and continues to transform its commercial center. "I am proud to honor the history of the city of Delray Beach, and I look forward to working with my colleagues in the House of Representatives to ensure that Delray Beach, along with the countless other cities and towns across our great nation, experience growth, prosperity, and success in the next 100 years." Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors of this resolution are Reps. Ted Deutch (FL-19) and Allen West (FL-22). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Delray_Beach_Resolution.pdf
09.28.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in recognition of Rosh Hashanah, which begins at sundown tonight: "As Rosh Hashanah begins, I would like to extend my warmest greetings to my friends throughout the Jewish community. This is a time for reflection and hope for the upcoming year, and I wish everyone marking the Rosh Hashanah holiday, as well as all Americans, a year of health, prosperity, and happiness. May we all take this opportunity to reflect on the challenges we as a nation have overcome and those we still face. Though we are a nation diverse in belief and culture, together, we can unite for a stronger America and a better future for our children. Shana Tova." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.28.2011	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) will be a guest speaker at the Legislative Breakfast of the 2011 National Conference of the National African-American Insurance Association (NAAIA) on Friday, September 30th at 9:00 a.m. at the Turnberry Isle Miami in Aventura, Florida. The NAAIA is a professional insurance organization that was established to create a network among minorities in the insurance industry with the mission of approaching diversity through educational programs, career development forums, and networking venues. DETAILS: WHO: Congressman Alcee L. Hastings WHAT: 2011 National Conference of the National African-American Insurance Association WHEN: Friday, September 30, 2011 at 9:00 am WHERE: Turnberry Isle Hotel and Resort (19999 W. Country Club Drive, Aventura, FL) Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.20.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in commemoration of the final repeal of the discriminatory law known as "Don't Ask, Don't Tell:" "Finally, after nearly 18 long years, 'Don't Ask, Don't Tell' has officially come to an end. Finally, each and every single Soldier, Sailor, Marine, Airman, and National Guardsman is free to serve their country honestly and openly, without the constant fear of being discharged based solely on who they are or who they love. And finally, we are ready to begin a new chapter in the history of our Armed Forces and nation, one guided by a renewed commitment to honor, integrity, and the fair treatment of all Americans. "It is with great pride that I join our nation's gay and lesbian service members in heralding the final repeal of 'Don't Ask, Don't Tell.' I share this profound moment with the more than 14,000 service members discharged under this misguided and unjust policy. Truth has vindicated their honor, and we will see to it that their records and benefits reflect the full measure of their service. And to those discharged individuals who seek to serve their country once more, I am humbled by your dedication and offer you my complete support. "It is important to remember, however, that equality does not happen overnight. In order to help make sure that gay and lesbian service members have sufficient legal recourse with regard to discrimination and harassment, I urge Defense Secretary Panetta to institute a nondiscrimination policy within the Department of Defense that includes sexual orientation. Furthermore, I request that the Secretary exercise the maximum discretion legally possible in providing benefits and support to all service members and their families until Congress repeals the Defense of Marriage Act. "On this truly historic day, I would like to thank the countless individuals whose courage and leadership have made the repeal of 'Don't Ask, Don't Tell' a reality. Additionally, I would also like to commend President Obama, Defense Secretary Panetta, and Admiral Mullen for standing together with the majority of our service members, their families, and Americans on this issue. It is long past time that we recognize all our brave men and women in uniform. Today, we finally say goodbye to 'Don't Ask, Don't Tell' once and for all." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.15.2011	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) will be a guest speaker at the 2011 Eastern Can-Am Conference of the Amalgamated Transit Union on Friday, September 16th at 9:00 a.m. at the Ritz-Carlton Palm Beach in Manalapan, Florida. The conference serves to educate participants on a variety of issues faced by the transit industry. Hastings will be providing attendees with an overview of the current issues Congress is facing. DETAILS: WHO: Congressman Alcee L. Hastings WHAT: Amalgamated Transit Union's Eastern Can-Am Conference WHEN: Friday, September 16, 2011 at 9:00 a.m. WHERE: Ritz-Carlton Palm Beach (100 South Ocean Boulevard, Manalapan, FL) Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.11.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in recognition of the 10th anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks: "Ten years ago our nation was forever changed by the events that occurred on September 11, 2001. As we come together to pause in remembrance of those whose lives were lost and stand with their loved ones whose lives were forever changed by these senseless attacks, let us also take this opportunity to honor the heroes of that day, all of the courageous first responders who risked and lost their lives for their fellow Americans. "We have come a long way since September 11, 2001, and I think we owe that to our collective determination to persevere against threats of terrorism. As a nation, we have enhanced our ability to detect and prevent terrorist attacks of all types in the past ten years. "On September 11, 2001, our nation made 'United We Stand' more than just a motto. We put our differences aside and showed the resilience of this great nation. Let us pay tribute to the victims and their families by recommitting ourselves on this day to protect each other—every human being—from all hatred, extremism, and injustice. After all, it is hate which nurtures the minds of those who wish to do us harm. "My thoughts and prayers continue to go out to the nearly 3,000 victims and their families who were murdered in the World Trade Center, the Pentagon, and in Shanksville, Pa." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.09.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in response to the President's address before a joint session of Congress: "I am pleased to see that the President's proposal addressed the crucial need to invest in our nation's infrastructure. Improving our aging infrastructure will spur job creation and secure the foundation for our nation's future. Additionally, the President's call for programs to spur employment opportunities for veterans, youth, low-income Americans, and the chronically unemployed is something that I strongly agree with. "Yesterday, the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) submitted our job creation proposal, 'Congressional Black Caucus Job Creation Recommendations: Create, Protect, Rebuild,' to the President which outlined nine targeted solutions for our country. The President's proposal last night was in line with the CBC proposal, which will: CREATE • Create and Maintain an Infrastructure Bank to Invest in Our Nation's Aging Infrastructure • Pass a Surface Transportation Bill to Create Millions of Jobs for Our Nation's Citizens • Establish and Revitalize Critical Programs with Tangible Results for Our Nation's Local Communities PROTECT • Protect Our Nation's Most Vital Programs to Preserve Our Economic Security • Provide Tax Protections for Our Nation's Citizens to Spur Economic Growth • Eliminate Barriers for Small and Medium Business to Ensure Better Economic Opportunity REBUILD • Rebuild, Strengthen, and Retrain Our Nation's Workforce • Reestablish Manufacturing Industry in US to Create More Jobs • Revive the Educational Pipeline to Ensure Critical Training for Long Term Global Competitiveness "It is my hope that the Administration, the CBC, and all of Congress can continue to work together to tackle the jobs crisis in America and ensure that every American is extended the helping hand they need during this difficult time." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
09.08.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement regarding job creation in anticipation of President Obama's address to a joint session of Congress this evening: "After almost 250 days in the 112th Congress without a plan put forward to create jobs by the House Republican majority, the President is bringing this pressing issue to the forefront of the political debate tonight. As the Co-Chair of the Democratic Caucus' Congressional Task Force on Job Creation, jobs have always been my number one priority and it is high time that Republicans give job creation the attention it desperately needs. "The American people don't need more grandstanding and political rhetoric. What they need is to get back to work so they can provide for their families. People are struggling and suffering all across this nation; we need to take immediate action to assist Americans during these trying times. "One of the most beneficial places to invest is in our country's infrastructure, and I hope that the President will take this opportunity to promote investment in this area. For every $1 billion that we invest in infrastructure construction projects such as bridges, roads, schools, and hospitals, 18,000 jobs are supported nationwide. Additionally, these investments are used to fund the things that we all rely on everyday and that we all benefit from when they are maintained, repaired, and improved. We must take immediate action to save and promote jobs in our nation's infrastructure by passing clean, long-term reauthorization legislation for the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and surface transportation programs. "Another crucial area often overlooked in the jobs discussion is programs to help individuals and families in the communities that are being hit the hardest. Urban and rural communities and especially minority populations continue to suffer disproportionately from high unemployment rates. The President must acknowledge this reality and act appropriately to address it. We can no longer afford to shy away from programs that support specific communities in an attempt to appear unbiased or colorblind. It is quite simple: the people who are struggling the most need the most help. "I hope that, following the President's jobs address this evening, Congress can come together and dedicate the time and resources necessary to address the jobs crisis in a proactive manner. We have put off getting people back to work for far too long and we must act now to create jobs and put the American people and the nation's economy back on track." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.22.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) announced that the Florida Department of Transportation received a $1.5 million federal grant to continue work on the Snake Road Improvement Project in Hendry County. These federal funds are specifically for Segment 3-A of the project, which runs through Big Cypress Seminole Reservation. "I am very pleased that the Federal Highway Administration recognizes the benefits of this important project" said Hastings. "Snake Road is a winding, two-lane road with a history of preventable accidents, fatalities, and property damages. There is a critical need to make the necessary safety improvements, and I am happy to report that the federal government has stepped up to support this endeavor, which will save lives and create jobs." The Snake Road Improvement Project is a multi-agency effort, in conjunction with the Seminole and Miccosukee Tribes, to realign, repair, and upgrade this 19.6 mile highway. This project will add numerous safety improvements including wider lanes, paved shoulders, straightening curves, lighting, proper drainage, turn lanes, and guard rails. Other aspects of this project have already been completed on time and on budget. "I have been supporting this successful project from the beginning and I will continue my efforts to help secure the federal funds needed to complete the road," Hastings further noted. "This project benefits local communities throughout Broward and Hendry Counties, and is a textbook example of the need to ensure federal support for infrastructure development." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.19.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) reacted to the announcement made by the Department of Interior (DOI) that the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation, and Enforcement (BOEMRE) will begin holding sales for oil and natural gas leases in the Gulf of Mexico. The proposed sale of over 20 million acres in the Western Gulf Planning Area is the first since the Deepwater Horizon oil rig explosion on April 20, 2010. "It is unconscionable that after an environmental catastrophe that was caused by the Deepwater Horizon explosion and subsequent BP oil spill, the Administration would think it wise to open up these same waters to the risks and dangers that they are still recovering from. "Offshore drilling will not ensure energy independence for our nation. It does nothing to help our economy and certainly does nothing to protect our environment. We must move away from our reliance on fossil fuels and embrace renewable, clean energy policies. This decision foolishly promotes continued reliance on fossil fuels over sustainable energy policies, putting the fragile Gulf Coast ecosystem once again in harm's way. "I've said it before and I'll say it again: I will be the last man standing in the fight to prevent expanded offshore oil drilling." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.18.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in commemoration of the 21st anniversary of the Ryan White Comprehensive AIDS Resources Emergency (CARE) Act, the nation's largest program for people living with HIV/AIDS: "Over the past 21 years, the Ryan White program has served as a lifeline to millions of low-income, uninsured, and underinsured individuals living with HIV/AIDS. Named after a brave young man from Indiana who turned his personal struggle with this disease into a national call for action, it works with states, cities, and local community-based organizations to provide health care and support services to those most in need. Currently, more than half a million individuals and families affected by HIV/AIDS rely on the Ryan White program, including over 100,000 Floridians. "I would like to recognize and thank the countless individuals who have worked tirelessly to help alleviate the burden of HIV/AIDS in our communities and nation as a whole. In particular, I am deeply saddened by the recent passing of Dr. Garland 'Gary' Morey, Jr., a pioneer in the South Florida HIV/AIDS community who dedicated his life to Broward County's Ryan White program and numerous HIV/AIDS groups. It is compassionate individuals like Dr. Morey who truly put the 'care' in 'Ryan White CARE Act,' and he will be deeply missed. "Modern medicine has allowed more people to have longer, richer lives with HIV/AIDS than ever before, but getting them into treatment is another story. If we are to be successful in improving the health outcomes of people living with HIV/AIDS and preventing the transmission of HIV, we must fund the Ryan White program appropriately in the long-term and ensure that grantees have the resources they need to care for their patients. As we celebrate the 21st anniversary of the Ryan White program, I will continue doing everything in my power to support it, as well as the National AIDS Strategy, Minority AIDS Initiative (MAI), and AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP)." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.17.2011	Representative Alcee L. Hastings (FL-23) will be participating in the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) "For the People" Jobs Initiative event on August 22 at 6:00 p.m. in Miami, Florida. Fellow South Florida Representative Frederica Wilson (FL-17) is hosting the town hall meeting on August 22nd as well as a jobs fair on August 23rd. The CBC has been bringing town halls and jobs fairs to cities during the month of August as part of the "For the People" Jobs Initiative, which seeks to address the current jobs crisis in the United States. The town hall will feature major public figures, including Members of Congress, on Monday evening. Over 100 employers, both local and national, will be participating in the jobs fair on Tuesday. Both events are free and open to the public. "Make no mistake, job creation remains our number one priority. Unfortunately, there continues to be major racial and economic disparity that continues to go unaddressed in the broader discussion of job creation and economic recovery. That is why I am so pleased that the CBC has launched this initiative and is bringing these opportunities to South Florida to help tackle the pressing issue of unemployment and underemployment, especially in minority communities. This initiative puts boots on the ground to help people get back on their feet in these most difficult economic times," said Congressman Hastings. "From day one, my focus has been jobs, jobs, jobs," said Congresswoman Wilson. "Unemployment in South Florida is no longer a crisis, but an epidemic. It's time to take matters into our own hands and provide real opportunities for people to get back to work." DETAILS: WHO: The Congressional Black Caucus WHAT : Town Hall Meeting WHEN: Monday, August 22, 2011 at 6:00 p.m. WHERE: Mt. Hermon AME Church (17800 NW 25th Avenue, Miami Gardens, FL 33056) WHO: The Congressional Black Caucus WHAT : Jobs Fair WHEN: Tuesday, August 23, 2011 from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. (Registration starts at 8:00 a.m.) WHERE: James L. Knight Center, Downtown Miami (400 SE 2nd Avenue #3, Miami, FL 33131) For more information on the CBC "For the People" Jobs Initiative, including registration information, please visit: http://thecongressionalblackcaucus.com/issues/jobs-initiative/. Media interested in attending are asked to contact Mahen Gunaratna at mahen.gunaratna@mail.house.gov/(202) 225-4506 or Trenae Floyd at trenae.floyd@mail.house.gov/(305) 690-5905. ###
08.15.2011	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) will host an open house at his new Delray Beach office on Friday, August 19 from 2:30 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. at the Delray Beach City Hall. The office serves Hastings' constituents in Florida's 23rd Congressional district. DETAILS: WHAT : Open House, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings' Local Congressional Office WHEN: Friday, August 19, 2011 from 2:30 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. WHERE: Delray Beach City Hall, 100 NW 1st Avenue, Delray Beach, FL 33444 (First Floor) NOTE: The previous Palm Beach office of Congressman Alcee L. Hastings that was located in the Mangonia Park Town Hall is no longer open. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.15.2011	Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (FL-23) and Ted Deutch (FL-19) will be participating in HOPE NOW's homeownership preservation event in West Palm Beach, Florida on Friday, August 19 at 12:00 p.m. at the Palm Beach County Convention Center. HOPE NOW is an alliance between mortgage market participants, including non-profit counselors, servicers, and investors. HOPE NOW's mission is to reach out to and attempt to assist homeowners who may be having difficulty paying their mortgages in order to help them stay in their homes and prevent foreclosure. DETAILS: WHO: Representatives Alcee L. Hastings and Ted Deutch WHAT : HOPE NOW Homeownership Preservation Event WHEN: Friday, August 19, 2011 at 12:00 p.m. WHERE: Palm Beach County Convention Center, 650 Okeechobee Blvd., West Palm Beach, FL 33401 ###
08.12.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) sent the following letter along with Representatives Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20), Ted Deutch (FL-19), and Frederica Wilson (FL-17) to Health and Human Services Secretary Sebelius regarding the urgent need for additional funds to address the ongoing AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP) crisis in Florida. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter). August 12, 2011 The Honorable Kathleen SebeliusSecretary of Health and Human ServicesHubert H. Humphrey Building200 Independence Ave., SWWashington, D.C. 20201 Dear Secretary Sebelius: We write as members of the South Florida Congressional delegation regarding the $50 million in emergency relief funding recently announced by the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) for our nation's AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP). In particular, we would like to thank you for amending the disbursement guidance for these funds, which now provides for a maximum award to be "the greater of the amount that a state received in emergency relief funding in fiscal year 2010 or $3 million." However, while we commend and support this effort to help improve access to lifesaving drugs for low-income individuals living with HIV/AIDS, we remain concerned that these new awards are not sufficient. This funding will help Florida continue treating current ADAP patients but will not reduce its waiting list, which is the largest in the country. Therefore, we strongly urge you to reconsider your decision and provide Florida with ADAP emergency relief funding that is commensurate with its need. As you well know, our nation faces an HIV/AIDS crisis that has been severely exacerbated by the ongoing shortfall in ADAP funding. Currently, there are 9,039 individuals on ADAP waiting lists in 13 states. Alarmingly, Florida accounts for approximately 42 percent of these cases with 3,751 individuals on the list. Furthermore, Florida is one of many ADAP states that have reduced its formulary in an effort to contain costs, leaving countless more individuals without access to the HIV/AIDS drugs and related services they need to stay alive. To make matters worse, the State of Florida has proposed reducing its income eligibility requirement to qualify for ADAP from 400 percent of the federal poverty level (FPL) to 200 percent. In July 2010, HRSA reallocated $25 million in emergency funding to provide much-needed relief to states with ADAP waiting lists and cost-containment measures. At the time, there were 2,090 individuals on ADAP waiting lists in 11 states. Florida accounted for 605 (26 percent) of these cases and received $7 million (28 percent) in emergency funds. While the number of individuals on Florida's ADAP waiting list has since increased more than fivefold, the State may receive no more than $7 million (18 percent) from this year's competitive funds. At a minimum, this is the amount Florida needs to continue treating current ADAP patients. Insufficient funding means that Florida's waiting list will only grow larger with each passing month. Given that Florida is home to 42 percent of all ADAP waiting list cases nationwide, we request that it receive 42 percent of the emergency funding available. Increasing access to treatment remains key to eliminating our nation's ADAP waiting lists and reducing the spread of HIV/AIDS. Unless award amounts are calculated based on the size of a state's ADAP waiting list, Florida will be forced to maintain its waiting list and continue denying treatment to those most in need. This will not only have a devastating effect on the health of these individuals, but on HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment efforts in our state as a whole. If we are to be successful in improving the health outcomes of people living with HIV/AIDS and preventing the transmission of HIV, we must fund ADAP appropriately in the long-term. Secretary Sebelius, thank you for your consideration of this urgent matter. We need your help to make sure that Florida and other ADAP states can provide low-income individuals living with HIV/AIDS access to the treatment they need to stay alive and stem the tide of new infections. Providing awards proportional to state need will maximize efforts to help alleviate ADAP waiting lists and end cost-containment measures. It is our sincere hope that our combined efforts will provide much-needed relief to our nation's HIV/AIDS community and ensure the integrity of ADAP in the years to come. Should you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact us. Sincerely, Alcee L. HastingsMember of Congress Debbie Wasserman SchultzMember of Congress Ted DeutchMember of Congress Frederica WilsonMember of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### South_Florida_Delegation_Letter_to_Sec__Sebelius_Regarding_New_ADAP_Award_Guidance_-_08_12_11.pdf
08.05.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the anniversary of the historic Voting Rights Act of 1965 in light of Florida's recent election law overhaul: "On May 19th, Florida Governor Rick Scott signed into law an egregious bill attacking from all angles one of the most fundamental rights of our democracy: the right to vote. "The transgressions contained in this bill are not minor inconveniences but elements of a systematic attack against the voting rights of minorities both in Florida and across the country. Since the adoption of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, the Department of Justice (DOJ) has intervened over 400 times across the country for unconstitutionally infringing on the voting rights of minorities. Governor Scott's law needs to be added to the list. "The bill that Governor Scott and Florida Republicans have forced into law is nothing more than a backdoor poll tax. It limits access to the polls for minorities, seniors, and college students. In particular, it reduces the number of early voting days and imposes new restrictive regulations on voter registration groups. Governor Scott and the Republican-led Florida legislature have sold out the most basic rights of Florida's voters in a brazen act of political gamesmanship reminiscent of Reconstruction. "After Republicans refused to submit the law for preclearance, the bill is finally under review. Additionally, a number of groups, including the League of Women Voters and the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), sent a letter to Secretary of State Kurt Browning opposing the law. The ACLU and Project Vote Smart have also filed a lawsuit under the Voting Rights Act to prevent implementation of these new rules. It is my sincere hope that soon we can end the affront that is this discriminatory law. "We cannot sit idly by and let Governor Scott and his cronies in the legislature turn back the clock on 40 years of progress just to create an advantage for themselves on Election Day. It is the voters of Florida who stand to lose the most from this law. We have not come this far only to have Republicans maliciously undermine our fundamental rights as Americans. Our voting rights are being trampled on and this cannot be ignored. "To Governor Scott, I say: We have seen what you've done, we are furious, and we will not let this go!" Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.05.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced a resolution recognizing persons of African descent from Europe or Black Europeans in honor of the International Year for People of African Descent. (Please find attached a copy of the resolution). "This year the United Nations designated 2011 the International Year for People of African Descent to honor the heritage and contributions of African descendants around the world. As a leader of the Helsinki Commission which focuses on our relationships with Europe, I have sought to raise awareness of not only the situation of African-Americans, but also the more than seven million people who make up Europe's Black population and the challenges of racism and discrimination they face. This resolution calls attention to their problems, urges European governments to implement anti-discrimination legislation and other plans of action, and calls for increased U.S. support for transatlantic cooperative efforts to address our common problems." In 2008, Congressman Hastings held the first U.S. Helsinki Commission hearing on Black Europeans in Washington D.C., entitled, "The State of (In)visible Black Europe: Race, Rights, and Politics" followed by the 2009 "Black European Summit: Transatlantic Dialogue on Political Inclusion" held at the European Parliament in Brussels, Belgium. Congressman Hastings continues to work with legislators in Europe to hold annual Transatlantic Minority Political Leadership Conferences (TMPLC) to assist in the development and implementation of policies that counter rising prejudice and discrimination and foster more inclusive and participatory democracies in North America and Europe. In July, a Resolution on "Strengthening Efforts to Combat Racism and Xenophobia and Foster Inclusion" drafted by Congressman Hastings and Dutch Parliamentarian, Kathleen Ferrier was adopted at the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe Parliamentary Assembly's Annual Session. On December 18, 2009, the United Nations General Assembly adopted resolution 64/169, which proclaimed 2011 the International Year for People of African Descent. The Year aims at strengthening national actions and regional and international cooperation for the benefit of people of African descent in political, economic, social and cultural aspects of society and the promotion of a greater knowledge of and respect for the diverse heritage and culture of African descendents. The U.S. Senate on July 28, 2011 adopted S. Con. Res. 26, recognizing 2011 as the International Year for People of African Descent drafted by U.S. Senators Ben Cardin (D-MD) and Roger Wicker (R-MS). A similar resolution by Congressman Bobby Rush (D-IL) is pending in the U.S. House. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### HASTFL_046_xml.pdf
08.05.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement regarding a deal reached by Congress to end the partial Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) shutdown that began on July 23, 2011: "I am pleased to see that Congress is no longer turning its back on its responsibilities and that an agreement has been reached to end the partial FAA shutdown. Thankfully, all the FAA employees and construction workers impacted by the partial shutdown will no longer have to worry about when they will be able to return to work or when their next paycheck will come. "Unfortunately, it should have never come to the point of having employees furloughed, construction and research projects halted, and revenue lost for more than a week over the Republicans' unwillingness to pass a clean short-term FAA extension. This reckless behavior has put the well-being of families, communities, and the nation's aviation system at risk. "So while I am pleased that the shutdown will not continue throughout the month of August, the underlying issues that led to this impasse must still be addressed. I sincerely hope that as soon as Congress returns to Washington in September we can work together to pass a long-term FAA reauthorization that puts job creation and American workers first." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.02.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in light of the House of Representatives adjourning for a month-long recess before resolving the partial Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) shutdown currently in effect: "It is irresponsible for Members of Congress to leave town while there is still pressing, unfinished business to attend to. For the past 11 days, the FAA has been operating under a partial shutdown due to Congress' inability to work together and compromise on short-term FAA funding extension legislation. This has led to nearly 4,000 FAA employees being furloughed and, to add insult to injury, these workers and their families will now be left high and dry for at least a month while Congress is recessed. Furthermore, the shutdown has halted hundreds of airport construction projects, suspended research on next-generation air traffic control systems (NextGen), and cost upwards of $30 million in lost tax revenue daily. "My home state of Florida alone has lost 27 FAA employees, 3,061 airport construction jobs, and $88 million in airport construction funding. Additionally, media reports indicate that certain airlines have raised consumer prices in order to capitalize on the FAA's inability to collect aviation excise taxes. This opportunistic behavior is an abuse of consumer trust and completely unacceptable. "Yesterday, I introduced H.R. 2744, the Federal Aviation Employees Protection Act of 2011, to allow these furloughed FAA employees to get back to work and provide for their families. My legislation enables the FAA to use the revenue collected by the Airport and Airway Trust Fund to provide furloughed FAA employees with pay and benefits until Congress approves a long-term solution. Unfortunately, given that the House has postponed critical efforts to reauthorize the FAA yet again, the shutdown will continue at least until September when Members of Congress return to Washington. By that time, a staggering $5 billion in revenue will have been lost. "This is beyond dropping the ball. This is Congress knowingly walking away from its responsibilities, recklessly harming families and communities across the country, and putting the long-term safety and improvement of our nation's aviation system at risk. I am appalled by the decision to leave this pressing matter unaddressed, and would like to extend my sincerest apologies to all the hardworking Americans who will continue to be affected by the FAA shutdown." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
08.01.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced the Federal Aviation Employees Protection Act of 2011 along with Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC). The legislation would allow the nearly 4,000 Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) employees left in limbo by a partial FAA shutdown to get back to work. This is the House companion to S. 1433 introduced by Senator John D. Rockefeller (D-WV) on July 27, 2011. (Please find attached a copy of the legislation). "On July 23, 2011, the FAA went into partial shutdown on the watch of House Republicans who, earlier that week, voted to restrict Essential Air Service (EAS) for small and rural communities instead of passing a clean, short-term FAA extension. As a result, the FAA was forced to furlough 3,594 employees, including engineering and electronics technicians, computer and logistics specialists, and support staff, among other workers. In addition, the FAA has halted hundreds of airport construction projects, suspended research on next-generation air traffic control systems (NextGen), and lost upwards of $30 million in tax revenue with each passing day. Without steady funding or workers, the FAA is unable to move forward with the long-term programs and projects that are vital to the future of our aviation system, including lifesaving airport safety improvements and the transition to NextGen. "As House Republicans continue playing the blame game with the Senate, American businesses and workers are losing out on much-needed economic opportunities. The ongoing partial shutdown and consequent furlough of FAA employees have had a devastating impact on families and communities in 35 states across the country. In particular, my home state of Florida has lost 27 FAA employees, 3,061 airport construction jobs, and $88 million in airport construction funding. Furthermore, media reports indicate that certain airlines have raised consumer prices in order to capitalize on the FAA's inability to collect aviation excise taxes. "Failure to address this dire issue threatens jobs, raises construction costs, and harms consumers at a time when the economic security and stability of our nation's economy are called into question by political gridlock. Fortunately, there is a solution. Much of the FAA is self-funded through user fees that go into the Airport and Airway Trust Fund. The Federal Aviation Employees Protection Act uses this revenue to allow furloughed FAA employees to continue working with pay and benefits, and to provide retroactive pay for the period of their furlough, as Congress seeks a compromise on long-term FAA reauthorization. "The FAA is now in its tenth consecutive day of partial shutdown, which means that furloughed FAA employees have been out of work and without pay for 10 days. This is unconscionable and unacceptable. I urge my colleagues to join me in standing up for these hardworking federal employees and help ensure the continued safety and improvement of our nation's aviation system by supporting the Federal Aviation Employees Protection Act. Enough is enough. If House Republicans were serious about bringing an end to the partial shutdown and furlough of FAA employees, they would support a clean, short-term FAA extension so that Congress could finalize and pass a long-term FAA reauthorization as soon as possible. It is clear that they are not." Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors of this legislation are (8): Reps. Norton (D-DC), Bordallo (D-GU), Connolly (D-VA), Gutierrez (D-IL), Moran (D-VA), Lewis (D-GA), Towns (D-NY), and Van Hollen (D-MD). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Federal_Aviation_Employees_Protection_Act.pdf
08.01.2011	Tonight, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar), voted against S. 365, the Budget Control Act of 2011 that passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 269-161: "I am deeply disappointed that after the continued failure of these radical plans in the U.S. Senate, what we have before us again is yet another plan that shows that the House Republican majority is not interested in compromise. We have ended up right where we started. Continuing to move further to the right does not constitute progress. Furthermore, the closed-door negotiations and closed process is truly disheartening and does not reflect the democracy that is supposed to be the hallmark of this institution. What we have witnessed in the past several weeks was hardly a negotiation, but rather the Republicans recklessly holding the full faith and credit of the United States hostage until they got everything they wanted and then some. "Since 1940, we have raised the debt limit over 70 times. This was done during some of the worst times in our nation's history. Congress took it upon themselves to raise the debt limit without getting into the ideological dispute that we have witnessed recently. In the past, both parties understood that the United States of America has an obligation to pay its bills. The debt ceiling is not about new spending but about paying the bills that Congress under both parties and under different presidents has already approved. "Let me be clear: this debt ceiling 'compromise' won't help our economy. Drastically slashing essential government spending at a time when Americans need it the most is not going to improve anything for the millions of struggling unemployed and underemployed people. When businesses won't spend and consumers can't, the government has to take the reins to boost demand and put money in people's pockets. It is simple economics. "This so-called 'compromise' is nothing more than a reckless sell-out to the ideological extremes of the Republican Party, a party that is utterly dominated by a Tea Party dogma that cares more to preserve tax cuts for the rich than to be about the business of ensuring the well-being of our entire society. What the Republicans have demonstrated throughout this entire process is that they will stop at nothing to force the young, elderly, poor, and unemployed to sacrifice, while the rich continue to get richer. What should have been a simple vote to maintain the United States' obligations has instead turned into a monstrosity of cynical politics, adolescent posturing, and economic calamity. And thanks to the Republicans, we can look forward to repeating it again before the year is out." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.29.2011	Last night, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced H.Res. 379, a resolution to condemn the terrorist attacks that occurred in Norway last Friday, July 22, 2011 that wounded as many as 96 people and took 76 lives. The attacks commenced with the brutal bombing of government buildings in Oslo, and the violence then reached its peak with a twin attack at a youth camp on Utoya Island, where the majority of casualties were children. This resolution is the House companion to S.Res. 240, a Senate resolution introduced by Senator Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), which passed the Senate by unanimous consent on July 27, 2011. (Please find attached a copy of the resolution). "Norwegian Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg condemned the attacks as 'peacetime Norway's deadliest day', and I urge my colleagues to stand by Norway, a great friend and ally, in its darkest hour by supporting this resolution. "For the Norwegian government and people, these attacks are an atrocity, a nightmare, and a national tragedy. For the world, this is a stark reminder that, as long as hatred and intolerance are allowed to persist, even the most peaceful of nations are not immune to its devastating effects. "A founding member of the United Nations and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, Norway is the home of the Nobel Peace Prize and offers a safe haven to refugees and the politically persecuted. Many of its police officers don't carry arms. "To think that even this peaceful society can be the target of brutal, relentless hatred and violence is utterly shocking, and a call for action is necessary. The international community must not stand for this type of ideological violence, and this resolution reaffirms the resolve of Congress to combat all forms of terrorism, both domestically and abroad. It also expresses deep sympathy, solidarity, and condolences for Norway and reaffirms our joint commitment to peace and the elimination of actions motivated by hatred and religious or cultural intolerance worldwide. "Despite the terrible violence committed against unarmed and innocent civilians, the country has courageously demonstrated that their commitment to peace, freedom, and tolerance remains unwavering. "I urge my colleagues to personify this courageous spirit by supporting this resolution and honoring the victims and survivors of this tragedy. To those who perpetuate fear, hatred, and intolerance throughout the world, we say: 'We are not afraid, and we will not be silenced!'" Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors of the resolution are (22): Reps. Berkley (D-NV), Berman (D-CA), Bordallo (D-GU), Cohen (D-TN), Conyers (D-MI), Deutch (D-FL), Ellison (D-MN), Gutierrez (D-IL), Jackson Lee (D-TX), McCollum (D-MN), McGovern (D-MA), Michaud (D-ME), Myrick (R-NC), Norton (D-DC), Rangel (D-NY), Richardson (D-CA), Rohrabacher (R-CA), Ross (R-FL), Schmidt (R-OH), Sires (D-NJ), Speier (D-CA), and Thompson (D-MS). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### H.Res.379.pdf
07.18.2011	In the month of July, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) received awards for his work to end homelessness, conserve national parks, and to end the AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP) funding crisis. Most recently, the Congressional Caucus on Homelessness was honored with the Public Sector Award by the National Alliance to End Homelessness. Hastings serves as Co-founder and Co-Chair of the Caucus along with Congresswoman Judy Biggert (R-IL). Reps. Hastings and Biggert accepted the award on behalf of the Caucus at the National Alliance to End Homelessness' Annual Awards Ceremony held Thursday, July 14, 2011. "The state of our economy has greatly exacerbated national homelessness, including my home state of Florida, which exhibits one of the highest rates of homelessness in the country," said Hastings. "I know we all can agree that no one in America should go without a roof over their head. Preventing homelessness is the most cost-effective and efficient way to stop homelessness." Hastings co-founded the Congressional Caucus on Homelessness in April of 2010 with the mission of educating his colleagues and their staff on the issues surrounding homelessness, and has since worked diligently with its members to find a solution to this widespread problem. In December of 2010, Hastings introduced, and the House of Representatives passed, the House Concurrent Resolution expressing Congress's support of the National Homeless Persons' Memorial Day to bring attention to the unfortunate deaths resulting from homelessness. During the 111th Congress, Hastings introduced H.R. 3636, the Services for Ending Long-Term Homelessness Act. This bill would establish a grant program that provides permanent supportive housing to serve the needs of chronically homeless individuals and families. On July 13, 2011, Hastings was honored by the National Parks Conservation Association (NPCA) with their "Friend of the National Parks" Award. This award recognizes Members of Congress who consistently vote to preserve and protect the park system. This year, the NPCA awarded 57 Senators and 179 Representatives this honor. "From the preservation of the natural beauty at the very heart of our nation to the economic benefits of tourism, which provide a strong economic foundation for many communities nationwide, our national parks serve an essential role all across the country," said Hastings. "I have long advocated for conservation, preservation, and protection initiatives and look forward to continuing to work in Congress and with organizations such as the National Parks Conservation Association to preserve and protect our national park system." Hastings serves as Co-Chairman of the Congressional Everglades Caucus and has maintained a strong pro-environment voting record throughout his time in Congress. On July 6, 2011, Hastings was honored by the ADAP Advocacy Association with their "Lawmaker of the Year" Award. He received this recognition for his activism surrounding the AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP). Most recently, Hastings offered an amendment that was incorporated into the full-year Continuing Resolution for fiscal year 2011, which included $883 million in ADAP funding. Currently, there are 8,615 individuals in 13 states nationwide waiting for the drugs that will keep them alive. Furthermore, Florida continues to top these ADAP waiting lists with 3,562 individuals. "It is of the utmost importance that we all continue doing our part to support ADAP and other prevention and treatment efforts, including further research and clinical trials," said Hastings. "It is unconscionable that, in 2011, a lack of program funding remains a significant barrier to treatment." Hastings has been a longtime advocate for the HIV/AIDS community and continues to support robust funding for the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program, including the HIV/AIDS Treatment Modernization Act, the Minority HIV/AIDS Initiative, the National AIDS Strategy, and state ADAPs. In February, Hastings successfully offered an amendment in the House to help secure much-needed additional funds for ADAP. Ultimately, an increase of $48 million in funding for ADAP was included in the full-year Continuing Resolution for FY 2011, which passed on April 14, 2011. "I am truly honored to have been recognized for my work in these three areas," said Hastings. "Homelessness and the AIDS epidemic are of upmost importance to Floridians. And with Florida's 23rd Congressional District being home to the Everglades, my constituents also understand the important role of national parks in our local community and nation as a whole. I will continue to support these initiatives as long as I am a Member of the United States Congress." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.14.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) announced the opening of his new Congressional office in Delray Beach, Florida. The office is located in the Delray Beach City Hall. (Please find below the full office information). "I am pleased to announce the opening of an office in Delray Beach to better serve my constituents living in Florida's 23rd Congressional district," said Hastings. "As always, I welcome members of the community to reach out to my offices for assistance or to share their opinions on matters of mutual concern. Now that the Delray Beach office is open, I invite the public to utilize this office and its resources in addition to my offices in Fort Lauderdale and Washington, D.C." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings' Delray Beach Office Information: Delray Beach City Hall100 NW 1st AvenueDelray Beach, FL 33444Phone: 561-243-7042Fax: 561-243-7327 NOTE: The previous Palm Beach office of Congressman Alcee L. Hastings that was located in the Mangonia Park Town Hall is no longer open. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.14.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in support of his amendment to H.R. 2354, the Energy and Water Development Appropriations for Fiscal Year 2012. Hastings' amendment passed the House of Representatives by voice vote and was included in H.R. 2354 when it passed the House by a vote of 219-196. (Please find attached a copy of the amendment). "I rise today to offer an amendment to H.R. 2354 that ensures the most vulnerable members of our society no longer bear disproportionately more than their share of the environmental costs in their communities. "Our government cannot ignore obvious disparities simply because the environmental burden is borne by citizens with limited political influence. We cannot destroy whole communities simply because it is politically convenient. "In 1994, President Clinton signed Executive Order 12898, directing agencies to address environmental justice concerns. Since then, minority and low-income communities have heard very little in the way of tangible progress except 'wait.' Well, these folks have been waiting for 20 years and they shouldn't have to wait anymore. "The Environmental Protection Agency's plan to have environmental justice standards in place by 2014 is a noble and welcome attempt at addressing the problem, but there are real steps that we can take today. My amendment ensures that none of the funds appropriated in this bill will be used in breach of the goals of Executive Order 12898. "Environmental justice is an effort to achieve health and environmental equity across all community lines. Adoption of this amendment will call on the agencies in this bill to move forward with the identification of at-risk minority and low-income communities so appropriate steps can be taken to improve their health and well-being. My amendment makes sure justice is served today. "When I first offered this same amendment in 2005, it was adopted into law. It has since been adopted into law in two other appropriations bills. This is the right thing to do for the health and fair treatment for those who need our help most in society. "I ask that my amendment be supported in an effort to help minority and low-income communities across this nation. Environmental justice that is reserved only for those who can afford it is no justice at all." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Hastings_Amendment_to_H.R._2354.pdf
07.13.2011	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) was honored tonight by the ADAP Advocacy Association with the "Lawmaker of the Year" Award. He received this recognition for his activism surrounding the AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP). Most recently, Hastings offered an amendment that was incorporated into the full-year Continuing Resolution for fiscal year 2011, which included $883 million in ADAP funding. "It is truly an honor to accept the Association's 'Lawmaker of the Year' Award, and to share the stage with such outstanding leaders in the ongoing struggle to improve access to care and treatment under our nation's AIDS Drug Assistance Program," said Hastings. "I applaud each and every one of them for all that they do for the AIDS community, the State of Florida, and our nation as a whole. "We recently observed the 30th anniversary of the first reported cases of HIV/AIDS in the United States," continued Hastings. "The AIDS epidemic remains today, without a doubt, one of the most significant and defining challenges of our time. Few diseases have left as profound an impact on our families, friends, and communities as HIV/AIDS. "Thanks to the tremendous dedication of countless scientists, health care providers, lawmakers, and community leaders, more and more people are living with HIV/AIDS rather than dying from it," Hastings further noted. "And they're able to have longer, richer lives than ever before because of the advances we've made in medical science and health care policy. But, we cannot hope to bring an end to HIV/AIDS if we cannot expand access to treatment." Currently, there are 8,615 individuals in 13 states nationwide waiting for the drugs that will keep them alive. Furthermore, Florida continues to top these ADAP waiting lists with 3,562 individuals. "It is of the utmost importance that we all continue doing our part to support ADAP and other prevention and treatment efforts, including further research and clinical trials," said Hastings. "It is unconscionable that, in 2011, a lack of program funding remains a significant barrier to treatment. "I remain committed to bringing an end to the ongoing ADAP funding crisis as well as supporting ADAP and other prevention and treatment efforts so that we may find a way to end the HIV/AIDS epidemic once and for all." Hastings has been a longtime advocate for the HIV/AIDS community and continues to support robust funding for the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program, including the HIV/AIDS Treatment Modernization Act, the Minority HIV/AIDS Initiative, the National AIDS Strategy, and state ADAPs. In February, Hastings successfully offered an amendment in the House to help secure much-needed additional funds for ADAP. Ultimately, an increase of $48 million in funding for ADAP was included in the full-year Continuing Resolution for FY 2011, which passed on April 14, 2011. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.13.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement regarding H.R. 923, the Veterans Pensions Protection Act of 2011, during testimony before the Subcommittee on Disability Assistance & Memorial Affairs of the House Committee on Veterans' Affairs: "Exactly one year ago, I testified before this Subcommittee on H.R. 4541, the Veterans Pensions Protection Act of 2010. On July 27, 2010, the bill was marked up and forwarded to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs by voice vote. On September 28, 2010, the bill passed by voice vote as part of H.R. 6132, the Veterans Benefits and Economic Welfare Improvement Act of 2010. "Indeed, the Veterans Pensions Protection Act is a common sense and much-needed piece of legislation. It is also well supported by numerous veterans' organizations. I am grateful for the opportunity to once again testify in favor of this important legislation and thank the Subcommittee for holding today's hearing. However, I am saddened that the Senate did not consider this bill before Congress adjourned last year. It is my sincere hope that Congress can work together to pass this legislation in an effort to build better lives for all of America's veterans and their families. "I would also like to welcome and recognize the veterans in the room today and express my gratitude for their service to our nation. Each of you has served our nation with honor and dignity and for that I am truly humbled by your service. Furthermore, I would like to recognize and thank the countless veterans' organizations for their ongoing commitment to our veterans. "I decided to introduce the Veterans Pensions Protection Act after one of my constituents, Mr. Kerry Scriber, a navy veteran with muscular dystrophy, had his pension abruptly cancelled. Mr. Scriber did not break the law, nor did he commit any crime. In March 2008, he was hit by a truck when crossing the street in his wheelchair with his service dog on his way to the pharmacy. He flew 10 feet into the air and landed head-first on the pavement, suffering broken bones and teeth. Additionally, his service dog was injured and his wheelchair destroyed. "As a law-abiding citizen, Mr. Scriber reported the incident to the Veterans Administration (VA), including the insurance settlement payment that he received from the driver's insurance to cover his medical expenses and the replacement cost of his wheelchair. As a result, the VA cancelled his pension benefits for an entire year. "When assessing a veteran's eligibility for a pension, the VA considers a variety of sources of revenue to determine a veteran's annual income. If this amount exceeds the income limit set by the VA, the veteran does not qualify for a pension or loses their benefits. Currently, the VA considers any reimbursement that compensates a veteran for his or her expenses due to an accident, theft, or loss as income. "Under current law, if a veteran is seriously injured in an accident or is the victim of a theft and receives insurance compensation to cover their medical expenses; the replacement cost of the stolen items; or for pain and suffering, they will likely lose their benefits. In effect, the law punishes veterans when they suffer from such an accident or theft. "Mr. Scriber reached out to the VA several times, asking to have his pension reinstated because he could not cover his medical bills; replace his wheelchair; pay for daily expenses; or afford his mortgage without his pension. Each time, the VA refused to reinstate his pension. He had fallen below the poverty line and was on the verge of losing his home and joining the ranks of over 100,000 homeless veterans nationwide. In the spring of 2009, Mr. Scriber reached out to my office in desperate need of assistance. I contacted the West Palm Beach VA medical center and wrote several letters to Secretary Eric Shinseki, however they did not change their policy, nor did they restore Mr. Scriber's benefits for a whole year. "I understand that the VA faces greater challenges as more service members return from the battlefield, but we must do everything in our power to ensure that our veterans have the benefits they rightly deserve. I am distraught that the VA can move so expeditiously to cancel the pension of an unemployed and disabled veteran without notice. The VA has a moral obligation to care for our veterans and their families. It is disheartening that veterans are overlooked and mistreated at times due to flaws in VA regulations. "The Veterans Pensions Protection Act amends the US Code to exempt the reimbursement of expenses related to accidents, theft, loss or casualty loss from being included in the determination of a veteran's income. This will guarantee the continuity of our veterans' pensions and that no veteran will have their benefits unfairly and abruptly depreciated or cancelled. My distinguished colleague from Montana, Senator Jon Tester, has introduced a companion bill after a similar incident happened to one of his constituents. The Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs held a hearing on the bill last month. "Clearly, there is something wrong with our current law. It is imperative that the VA ensure that no veteran face the grave difficulties that Mr. Scriber did. We must enact regulations that help veterans live better lives, not hurt them, which includes issuing pension benefits to veterans who legitimately meet the income criteria and rely on such assistance to survive. Our veterans have shown their devotion to our nation with their bravery and sacrifice. We must now prove our dedication to those heroes by treating them in accordance with the values and ideals upon which this great nation was founded." Hastings introduced H.R. 923 on March 3, 2011. This legislation protects veterans from losing their pension benefits because they received payments to cover expenses incurred after an accident, theft, loss or casualty loss. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Hastings_Veterans_Pensions_Protection_Act_112th.pdf
07.13.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in response to the proposed elimination of the U.S. Department of Justice's Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Hiring Program: "The COPS program has helped community and law enforcement officers to better work together to combat crime, including ensuring a safe school environment for our nation's children through the utilization of resource officers. It is nonsensical and downright dangerous to cut this vital program. The safety of our communities should never be placed on the chopping block. "Nationwide, communities are also facing economic hardships and law enforcement resources are already being cut on the local and state levels, making the need for the COPS program even more pressing. Furthermore, in times of economic hardships, we tend to see increases in crime and therefore need to ensure that our communities have the adequate resources to combat and prevent such increases in criminal activity. "In my home district, I see the desperate need for more public safety resources as well as the need to better the relationship between the community and law enforcement. The COPS program saves much needed jobs while providing an invaluable service to the community and that is safety. This can only be attained, however, through ensuring the necessary resources are available as well as making sure that there is cooperation and trust between the community and law enforcement in the fight against crime. "It is my sincere hope that sufficient funding is provided for the COPS program so that it can continue to serve and protect our communities." The COPS Hiring Program made $240 million in federal aid available this year to help communities keep police officers on the job. In Florida's 23rd Congressional District, represented by Hastings, the City of Wilton Manors and Palm Beach County received COPS grants in 2010. On May 20, Hastings signed on to a letter to Chairman Frank Wolf and Ranking Member Chaka Fattah of the House Appropriations Committee's Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Subcommittee urging sufficient funding for the COPS Hiring Program in the FY2012 Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Appropriations bill. The bill, which proposes the elimination of the COPS Office which would include the elimination of the COPS Hiring Program, is scheduled for mark up by the House Committee on Appropriations on Wednesday, July 13, 2011. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.13.2011	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in response to the Congressional Caucus on Homelessness being honored with the Public Sector Award by the National Alliance to End Homelessness. Hastings serves as Co-founder and Co-Chair of the Caucus along with Congresswoman Judy Biggert (R-IL). Reps. Hastings and Biggert accepted the award on behalf of the Caucus last night at the National Alliance to End Homelessness' Annual Awards Ceremony. "I certainly appreciate all of the National Alliance's continued support for our efforts in Congress to educate Members and their staff on the many issues affecting the homeless. "I would also like to recognize Diana Stanley, the Executive Director of The Lord's Place, one of the leading homeless providers in West Palm Beach, Florida. Ms. Stanley has played an integral role in writing Palm Beach County's 10-Year Plan to End Homelessness, and I am truly honored to be here with her this evening. "Friends, I share your concerns about the appalling number of homeless children, youth, families, veterans, and individuals living throughout the United States. "My mother used to say to me: 'Who you pass on your way up, are the same people you pass on the way down.' All it takes is an unexpected bill, a company downsizing, or a bad mortgage to create a situation where a family or an individual cannot maintain housing. "The state of our economy has greatly exacerbated national homelessness, including my home state of Florida, which exhibits one of the highest rates of homelessness in the country. Florida's foreclosure rates continue to put entire families on the streets with nowhere to turn. "I know we all can agree that no one in America should go without a roof over their head. Preventing homelessness is the most cost-effective and efficient way to stop homelessness. "I cannot make sense of the fact that we continue to spend billions of dollars in Iraq, Afghanistan, and Libya, yet we have an estimated 2,000,000 people who are homeless right here at home who need our help. "This is a human rights crisis that demands our attention now. As the Co-founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on Homelessness, rest assured, I stand with you now and remain committed to continuing this fight to prevent and end homelessness in our country once and for all." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.12.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in recognition of the Republic of South Sudan becoming an independent nation tomorrow: "It gives me great pleasure today to recognize the world's newest nation, the Republic of South Sudan. On July 9, 2011, after months of preparation, South Sudan will officially declare its independence from Sudan. In January 2011, South Sudan held a referendum on the issue of secession, where 97.5 percent of Southern Sudanese turned out to vote and an overwhelming 98.8 percent voted for separation. Tomorrow, the independence of South Sudan marks the end of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA), which ended 22 years of war between northern and southern Sudan, and the birth of a new country based on the principles of self-determination, freedom, and justice. "However, South Sudan faces numerous challenges that will need to be resolved after its independence. South Sudan and Sudan still have to agree on issues such as revenue sharing, especially oil revenues, border disputes, security agreements, national debt, citizenship, and currency. In addition, South Sudan lacks two critical resources: government infrastructure and personnel, which are crucial to creating a strong and viable government. "I would like to congratulate the people of South Sudan on achieving their dream of independence, and extend my deepest sympathies to those who lost loved ones in the fight for freedom. I encourage my colleagues in Congress to join me in commemorating the struggle and sacrifices of millions of Southern Sudanese, and to work with the international community to ensure that South Sudan becomes a politically and economically stable nation." On April 15, 2011, Hastings introduced H.Res. 233, welcoming the new state of Southern Sudan, encouraging Sudan and Southern Sudan to resolve separation issues and the future of the Abyei region, and urging the Governments of Sudan and Southern Sudan to abide by the principles of peace, democracy, and human rights. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.12.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement after being honored by the National Parks Conservation Association with their "Friend of the National Parks" Award: "It is truly an honor to receive the National Parks Conservation Association's 'Friend of the National Parks' Award. From the preservation of the natural beauty at the very heart of our nation to the economic benefits of tourism, which provide a strong economic foundation for many communities nationwide, our national parks serve an essential role all across the country. "As Co-Chairman of the Congressional Everglades Caucus and with Florida's 23rd Congressional District being home to the Everglades, I am acutely aware of the importance of national parks and their significance in both our local communities and the nation as a whole. "Unfortunately, the safety of these places for future generations is not guaranteed. Threats to our national parks loom ever present. Air pollution, climate change, and environmental disasters, both natural and manmade, take a toll on these national treasures every single day. Unless we act together to preserve these places, we may lose them forever. "We must not be silent when it comes to protecting these parklands. We must do everything we can to protect these historic and dignified places. I have long advocated for conservation, preservation, and protection initiatives and look forward to continuing to work in Congress and with organizations such as the National Parks Conservation Association to preserve and protect our national park system." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
07.01.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in commemoration of the 45th anniversary of Medicare, our nation's health insurance program for seniors and disabled individuals: "Forty-five years ago today, we made a promise to the hardworking men and women of this country. We promised that, after a lifetime of contributing to this great nation, no senior should have to go without quality health insurance. Today, we celebrate that promise. "When Medicare was first enacted on July 1, 1966, 51 percent of Americans 65 and older were uninsured and 30 percent of those seniors lived below the poverty line. Thanks to Medicare, virtually every senior in America 65 and older now has health care coverage, and only 7.5 percent of seniors are living below the poverty line. Furthermore, life expectancy in our country has risen by eight years to around 78 years, and the quality of life for seniors and people with disabilities has increased as well. "My fellow Democrats and I remain committed to the future of Medicare. In fact, the Affordable Care Act increases the solvency of the program by eight years. As stewards of this bedrock promise, we cannot allow shortsighted priorities to shortchange our seniors. "Republicans, on the other hand, risk the very health and security of our nation's seniors and other vulnerable individuals in their misguided attempt to cut government spending in the short-term. They intend to change Medicare as we know it by replacing the program and its guaranteed benefits with a voucher system for private care. Simply put, this means that Medicare beneficiaries will be paying more out of their own pockets for less -- more than $12,510 a year to be exact. "Seventy-two percent of Americans report that their retirement security depends on Medicare. In addition, 210 million Americans currently 55 years and younger stand to be affected. We owe it to them, and to all future Americans, to preserve this vital program. "We must balance short-term deficit spending for economic recovery with a commitment to restoring fiscal discipline in the long-term, not shift the cost of health care to seniors and other vulnerable communities. As we celebrate the 45th anniversary of Medicare, I pledge to continue doing everything in my power to protect and strengthen Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security for this and future generations. A promise is a promise." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.28.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in response to the State Department's release of their 11th annual Trafficking in Persons (TIP) Report: "The TIP Report is the United States government's principal diplomatic tool to engage foreign governments on human trafficking. Congress played a role in assuring the creation of this report through the passage of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act so that the fight for liberty and the fight against modern slavery could be tackled, and I was proud to vote in favor of this measure in October 2000. Major forms of human trafficking include: forced labor, sex trafficking, bonded labor, debt bondage, involuntary domestic servitude, forced child labor, child soldiers, and child sex trafficking. "Fighting against human trafficking is an enormous challenge. I applaud the people around the world who are the frontlines freeing millions men, women, and children from the prison of trafficking exploitation, isolation, and abuse. I want to recognize this year's State Department TIP Report Heroes, individuals around the world who have devoted their lives to the fight against human trafficking. These individuals are NGO workers, lawmakers, police officers, and concerned citizens who are committed to ending modern slavery. Through their tireless efforts, victims now are more protected, offenders are being punished, and awareness is being raised of the ongoing criminal practices in their countries and internationally. They are leading this fight despite opposition, threats to their lives, and hostility. They are heroes in the truest sense. The 2011 TIP Heroes include: Leonel Dubon of Guatemala, Esme Kisting of Namibia, Darlene Pajarito of Philippines, Dilcya Garcia of Mexico, Sheila Roseau of Antigua and Barbuda, Eva Biaudet of Finland, Charimaya Tamang of Nepal, Swati Chauhan of India, Amela Efendic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Bridget Lew Tan of Singapore. "I would like to especially congratulate Eva Biaudet, a global leader on women's rights and anti-trafficking efforts. I personally worked with Ms. Biaudet from 2006-2009 in her capacity as the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe's (OSCE) Special Representative for Combating Human Trafficking in Vienna, during my time as an officer of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. I witnessed Ms. Biaudet's tireless efforts to ensure that modern slavery is an issue taken seriously by all countries around the world. Her commitment to ending modern day slavery is truly extraordinary." To learn more about the 2011 State Department TIP Report Heroes, please visit http://www.state.gov/g/tip/rls/tiprpt/2011/164227.htm. For information on the human trafficking crisis in the United States, please visit my website /index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=665:human-trafficking-in-the-united-states&catid=60. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.27.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement to mark the 17th Annual National HIV Testing Day, a joint initiative between the National Association of People With AIDS (NAPWA) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) aimed at promoting HIV testing. "There are approximately 1.1 million people living in the United States with HIV/AIDS and an estimated 56,300 Americans are newly infected each year. Furthermore, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), more than one in five HIV-positive individuals are unaware that they are infected. This is truly alarming. "I commend NAPWA and the CDC for all their hard work in making National HIV Testing Day a success year after year. We must ensure access to HIV testing that is confidential, rapid, and accurate. Combining the effectiveness of voluntary, routine screening with smart policy can help stem the transmission of, and improve the health outcomes associated with, this virus. "Routine screening for HIV has been proven to save lives and reduce new infections. That is why I introduced in May the Increasing Access to Voluntary Screening for HIV/AIDS and STIs Act of 2011. Among other things, the bill requires Medicaid to cover voluntary screening for HIV/AIDS and other STIs as a mandatory service for all individuals 13 and older. It also provides states with the support they need to cover low-income individuals infected with HIV until Medicaid is expanded in 2014 under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. "We cannot talk about HIV testing without also addressing access to care. In providing increased funding to the AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP) in the full-year Continuing Resolution for FY 2011, Congress brought much-needed relief to individuals living with HIV/AIDS who were waiting for antiretroviral treatment and other related services. However, further commitment is needed to bring an end to the ongoing ADAP funding crisis. In fact, Florida continues to lead ADAP waiting lists in 13 states nationwide with 3,581 individuals. "This National HIV Testing Day, I pledge to continue working with my colleagues in Congress to address barriers to HIV testing and access to care, as well as secure additional funding for ADAP and other national prevention and treatment efforts. I also urge all sexually-active Americans to get tested and know their status. HIV/AIDS is not just a personal health issue; it is a community health issue and we all have a responsibility to do our part in preventing the incidence and transmission of this disease." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.27.2011	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings made the following statement in response to the National Labor Relations Board's (NLRB) proposal of modernized election rules, which will clear the way for workers to vote on unionization by streamlining the regulatory processes: "I applaud the NLRB for issuing the proposed rule changes that would streamline election procedures so workers can vote to unionize without undue delays caused by unnecessary litigation, superfluous pre- and post-election procedures, and outdated filing systems. "When workers seek to organize and take advantage of their collective bargaining rights, they too are searching for an improved life for themselves and their families. They aren't trying to take advantage of the system or run the company which employs them out of business. All they want is fair pay and benefits for an honest day's work. "In my district, I have walked the picket lines with literally hundreds of workers who were wrongfully fired or laid-off for trying to organize a union. Whether it has been at a body armor plant or hospitals and nursing homes as well, I have seen, firsthand, employer intimidation aimed at discouraging union involvement. I fully support the NLRB's proposed changes to bring critically needed fairness and balance to the system and to help simplify workers' ability to unite." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.24.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) and Congressman Timothy V. Johnson (R-IL), Co-Chairmen of the Congressional Pollinator Protection Caucus, introduced the Highways Bettering the Economy and Environment Act of 2011 (Highways BEE Act). This zero-cost, bi-partisan legislation will help create much-needed habitat for the birds, bats, bees, and butterflies that pollinate our food. (Please find attached a copy of the bill). "There are nearly 17 million acres of land along our highways where new management practices can reduce maintenance costs for cash-strapped states and at the same time create habitat for pollinators," said Hastings. "The millions of acres of agriculture and wildlife ecosystems adjacent to these roadways will benefit from the integrated vegetation management practices advanced in this legislation." The Highways BEE Act directs the Secretary of Transportation to use existing authorities, programs, and funding to encourage State Departments of Transportations (DOTs) and other transportation right-of-ways managers to adopt integrated vegetation management (IVM) practices. These techniques include planting native grasses and forbs and significantly reducing the frequency of mowing. States DOTs that have already adopted IVM practices report significantly reduced maintenance costs. At the same time they are reducing their own costs, States adopting IVM practices are providing a habitat for pollinators, ground-nesting birds, and other small wildlife in need of healthy forage and nesting areas. "Pollinator population decline is a problem of national significance," Hastings further noted. "One out of every three bites of food that we eat is derived from pollinators. We must work together to address these problems before it is too late. If we don't come up with real solutions soon, we won't have any bees left. Without bees, we won't have any food. It's just that simple." Joining Hastings and Johnson as original co-sponsors are Reps. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Leonard Boswell (D-IA). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Highways_BEE_Act.pdf
06.24.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the House floor regarding H.J.Res. 68, authorizing the limited use of force in support of the NATO mission in Libya. H.J.Res. 68 was introduced by Hastings and ultimately failed to pass the House of Representatives today by a vote of 123-295. The resolution echoes the Senate resolution introduced this week by Sens. John Kerry (D-MA), John McCain (R-AZ), Benjamin Cardin (D-MD), and Richard Durbin (D-IL), in addition to being supported by Majority Leader Harry Reid. It authorizes the continued intervention in Libya, expires one year after the date of enactment and bans the use of ground troops. It directs the President to consult frequently with Congress regarding U.S. efforts in Libya. (Please find attached a copy of the legislation). "The underlying legislation authorizes the limited use of United States forces in support of the NATO mission in Libya. This legislation is a bipartisan effort to prevent the kind of open-ended and indefinite military commitments we have elsewhere in the world. "This resolution is a companion to forward-leaning Senate legislation introduced by Senators Kerry, McCain, Cardin, and Durbin. Immediately after they introduced the resolution in the Senate, I brought it to the House so that we can make progress on this very important debate before us. "If I had my way, we wouldn't be in Libya at all. But I don't have my way, and here we are, and the solution now is not to cut off all funding and suddenly walk out. "We have a responsibility to our allies. As long as we are continuing to supply logistics, material, and critical intelligence and operational capabilities, we must support our allies who are carrying out the direct combat operations. We must stand with NATO. "And again, if I had my way there are revisions to this resolution that I believe the Congress ought to consider. I maintain that a better date to end the authorization would be the end of September or the end of December of this year. "But if we are going to commit ourselves in support of the NATO mission, we must allow enough time for a resolution to this conflict. One year from enactment ought to be enough time for the United States and our allies to demonstrate the necessary progress on our policy objectives. The one-year authorization limits the President's ability to engage our Armed Forces indefinitely so that we don't find ourselves neck-deep in yet another war. "At the same time, this authorization prohibits the use of grounds forces and requires the President to continually report to Congress on the progress of our military operations, the plans to achieve our stated goals, and the changing situation on the ground. So we are not simply handing the President a blank authorization check. In fact, this resolution enables Congress to assert its authority and maintain a close oversight of our progress. "I am also disappointed that we were not able to include in this resolution some notion of using Libya's frozen assets to pay for NATO's military operations. The Senate resolution speaks to using these assets to pay for humanitarian relief and reconstruction efforts within Libya. It also notes that the United States work with the Transitional National Council to appropriate some of those funds to reimburse NATO countries for the cost of military operations. "We have spent upwards of $800 million so far and we are quickly approaching the $1 billion mark. At the same time, we are sitting on billions of dollars in assets that we ought to put to good use to help the Libyan people, in coordination with the Transitional National Council. Rest assured that I will continue to insist on this matter as a necessary component of our efforts in the region. "There can be no question that the United States is engaged in hostilities in Libya. The President engaged in these hostilities without an authorization from Congress, and has anyway exceeded the 60-day War Powers limitation on the use of force without congressional consent. "It is high time that Congress asserts its authority and engages proactively with the administration on this most serious question of war. "We are now involved in this conflict. We must continue to support our allies. And we must work with the President to ensure that our military commitment is limited and brief, and best serves the people of Libya." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### H.J.Res.68.pdf Click here to view Congressman Hastings' floor statement.
06.24.2011	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in response to the failure of the House of Representatives to pass H.J. Res. 68, a joint resolution introduced by Hastings authorizing the limited use of force in support of the NATO mission in Libya. H.J.Res. 68 failed by a vote of 295 to 123. (Please find attached a copy of the legislation). "I'm deeply disappointed that my sensible middle of the road measure didn't pass the House earlier today, and I'm astounded that we're right back at the status quo. If Congress continues down this kind of path, it will be more irrelevant than it has been in the past. The War Powers Act should be repealed and Congress should write a sensible constitutional provision undergirding the responsibilities of the Legislative Branch of government." H.J.Res. 68 was a companion to a joint resolution introduced in the Senate by Sens. John Kerry (D-MA), John McCain (R-AZ), Benjamin Cardin (D-MD), and Richard Durbin (D-IL). It authorizes the continued intervention in Libya, expires one year after the date of enactment and bans the use of ground troops. It directs the President to consult frequently with Congress regarding U.S. efforts in Libya. This afternoon, the House also rejected H.R. 2278, a GOP-backed measure introduced by Congressman Tom Rooney (R-FL). The bill prohibits funding for all aspects of the Libya mission except: 1) search and rescue; 2) intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance; 3) aerial refueling; and 4) operational planning activities. It was defeated by a vote of 238 to 180. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### H.J.Res.68.pdf
06.22.2011	Last night, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced a resolution authorizing the limited use of force in support of the NATO mission in Libya. This resolution is a companion to a Senate joint resolution introduced yesterday by Senators John Kerry (D-MA), John McCain (R-AZ), Benjamin Cardin (D-MD), and Richard Durbin (D-IL). (Please find attached a copy of the resolution). "There can be no question that the United States is engaged in hostilities in Libya. Our Armed Forces have assisted in combat operations including providing intelligence, aerial refueling, targeting, and other aspects of NATO's daily bombardment of Libyan forces loyal to Qaddafi. The President engaged in these hostilities without an authorization from Congress, and has anyway exceeded the 60-day War Powers limitation on the use of force without congressional consent. It is high time that Congress asserts its authority and engages proactively with the administration on this most serious question of war. "But the solution is not to simply cut off funds. Instead, Congress must limit and closely monitor the President's commitment of forces. This resolution authorizes the use of force in Libya for one year from the date of enactment, limiting the President's ability to engage our Armed Forces indefinitely. This resolution bans the use of ground forces and requires the President to continually report to Congress on the progress of our military operations, the plans to achieve our stated goals, and the changing situation on the ground. We must also make an effort to put Libya's frozen assets to good use, returning funds to the Libyan people and using some of that money to offset the cost of NATO's operations. "It is too late to debate whether we should be involved or not: we already are. What we must do is ensure that the legislative and executive branches are working in harmony to maintain a military commitment that is limited and brief, and that best serves the people of Libya. I urge my colleagues to support this resolution." Since Libyan dictator Muammar Qaddafi responded to peaceful demonstrations by attacking Libya's own citizens, the United States has been actively engaged with our international allies in thwarting the ability of the Qaddafi regime to visit violence, murder, and destruction on the people of Libya. This past February, the United States imposed economic sanctions on Libya and froze the assets of its leadership, promising to hold Qaddafi, his family, and the government of Libya accountable for its human rights abuses. Qaddafi responded by increasing his assaults on civilians. As Libyan forces approached the city of Benghazi, in which Qaddafi vowed to show "no mercy" to opposition forces which had captured the city, the United Nations Security Council passed Resolution 1793, mandating "all necessary measures" to protect civilians in Libya, implementing a "no-fly zone", and enforcing an arms embargo. On March 19, the United States Armed Forces and our coalition partners launched Operation Odyssey Dawn in an effort to enforce the Security Council resolution. That mission has since come under NATO command and is now called Operation Unified Protector. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### HJR_Libya.pdf
06.22.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced the Post-Deployment Strategy Act of 2011, legislation that will require the President to submit a post-deployment strategy to Congress not later than 48 hours after introducing our military into combat operations. This plan will articulate what is at stake for the United States, define the goals and objectives of the operation, and lay out a strategy for success. (Please find attached a copy of the legislation). "Going to war is one of the most important decisions a government can make. From the sheer magnitude of financial burden to the devastating effects of loss of life, war is among our nation's costliest undertakings. This is why it is crucial to develop a set of objectives and a clear plan of action prior to engaging in a conflict. Currently, the President is not required to have such a plan in place before sending our men and women in uniform into combat," said Hastings. Estimates put the direct and indirect costs of the Iraq War at a staggering $3 trillion, with over 4,000 American lives lost and over 33,000 soldiers wounded. Our U.S. debt increased from $6.4 trillion in March 2003 to $10 trillion in the pre-financial crisis months of 2008, and the war in Iraq is directly responsible for at least a quarter of that sum. While there are many contrasting perspectives on U.S. involvement in Iraq, all can agree that having established a clear and informed plan for the country's occupation and stabilization prior to the invasion would have helped to decrease the loss of life, injuries, as well as the wasteful use of resources. "Establishing a clear and informed plan for a country's occupation prior to introducing Armed Forces will help better allocate resources, and decrease the loss of life and the cost of conflicts. It is crucial to have the tools and resources in place to ensure the stabilization of conflict areas, and the safe return of our troops. It is both unacceptable and irresponsible to send our loved ones to war without a long-term plan of action. As instability escalates in the Middle East and with U.S. military operations in Libya underway, the need for a clear post-deployment strategy is greater than ever. We owe our soldiers, their families, and the taxpayers clear justification for sending our Armed Forces into combat," Hastings further noted. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Post-Deployment_Strategy_Act_of_2011.pdf
06.22.2011	HIV/AIDS is a pandemic that has no prejudices, altering the lives of over one million Americans regardless of race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, or economic background. More than 18,000 people in our country die from HIV/AIDS every year. These deaths include countless victims who were not even aware of their condition. Lives could have been saved had they been tested and then treated. On June 5, 1981, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reported five cases of a rare form of pneumonia. The illness was said to weaken the immune system and could potentially become a full-blown epidemic. As the story of the first HIV/AIDS cases began to spread, it carried a heavy stigma. Within the first few years, the disease muffled the voices of those who were infected with the deadly virus to the point where being identified as a HIV/AIDS victim was considered taboo. Thirty years later, over 600,000 Americans have died from the disease. America has come a long way in addressing the issue, but we have much more to do to save lives. Though we can individually address the problem of HIV/AIDS, we must collectively examine viable solutions to eradicate the disease. Like polio and other diseases that we have eliminated, we can effectively slow and diminish the spread of HIV/AIDS. Knowing your status is the first step in battling this adversity. As Members of Congress, we have proposed swift legislation in our effort to encourage prevention and treatment. Congressman Charles B. Rangel of New York is spearheading the National Black Clergy for the Elimination of HIV/AIDS bill, which authorizes the Department of Health and Human Services to make grants to community-based and faith-based organizations to provide outreach, prevention, and testing services to African American communities. Congresswoman Shelia Jackson Lee of Texas, a cosponsor of the bill, has strongly voiced her support for its passage in order to alleviate the rise of HIV/AIDS within minority groups. Moreover, Florida Congressman Alcee L. Hastings has introduced the Increasing Access to Voluntary Screening for HIV/AIDS and STIs Act of 2011 to help reduce the spread and morbidities associated with HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted infections. Among other things, it requires Medicaid, a health program providing medical financial assistance for low-income families, to cover voluntary screening for HIV/AIDS and other STIs as a mandatory service for all individuals 13 and older. We are trying to educate everyone in America that, beyond preventive measures, getting tested remains key to reducing the incidence and transmission of this disease in our communities. Our constituents are in great jeopardy when it comes to the spread and infection rate of HIV/AIDS. According to the CDC, New York, Florida and Texas were ranked first, second and fourth, respectively, in 2009 for most of the 35,000 HIV/AIDS cases diagnosed. This is unacceptable. The CDC also reports that African-Americans are at the highest risk for HIV/AIDS contraction in the nation, accounting for a shocking 46 percent of diagnoses in the United States. The ratio for black men compared to white men is 8:1. The disproportionate ratio skyrockets to 23:1 for their female counterparts. One in five Americans living with HIV/AIDS does not know he or she needs treatment, nor is aware of his or her infection. That could be your friend, your spouse, a colleague, a neighbor, and anyone else. Without taking the initial step of getting tested, people are putting themselves and others at risk. There is no need to lose another precious life because preventive measures were not taken. With so many free resources available, there is no longer any excuse not to get tested. One of the newest and most popular methods is the new Rapid HIV testing which allows instant results to be delivered to patients on the spot. This method, as well as the traditional doctor's check-up, is available at community health centers, hospitals, private physician's offices and other medical care settings. We encourage everyone to get tested and know his or her status. It is not a case of shame but rather a push towards progress in the fight against HIV/AIDS. June 27th is National HIV Testing Day. Prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS. Get tested today. Reps. Charlie Rangel, D- New York, Shiela Jackson Lee, D-Texas, and Alcee Hastings, D-Florida, are avid proponents of HIV/AIDS testing. To view the original Op-Ed, click here.
06.21.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) reintroduced the National Hurricane Research Initiative Act of 2011, a comprehensive hurricane research bill which will improve hurricane research dramatically in the United States. This bill authorizes funding for critical hurricane research to help scientists study and better understand how hurricanes form and intensify. It will also provide funding to enhance early warning systems, infrastructure durability standards, and hurricane tracking and prediction capabilities. The bill further authorizes funding for the Joint Polar Satellite System (JPSS), enabling scheduled, necessary updates to the satellites used to forecast and track severe weather systems. The Republicans cut funding for this vital program in their budget for Fiscal Year 2011. (Please find attached a copy of the bill). "One of my top priorities in Congress is to ensure that our nation and the state of Florida are better prepared to respond to and mitigate the devastating impacts of hurricanes. There are currently many gaps in our knowledge of hurricanes. We have an opportunity to fill those gaps while at the same time reducing our vulnerability. With an investment into coordinated hurricane research, we can protect our property, avoid economic devastation, and save countless lives," said Hastings. The National Hurricane Research Initiative Act of 2011 takes the general recommendations of the National Science Board (a 24-member independent advisory body to the President and Congress on national science and engineering issues) and assembles the expertise of the nation's science and engineering experts to gain a better understanding of hurricane prediction and intensity. "It is imperative that we take all the steps possible to understand hurricane systems and diminish the impacts they have on our local communities," continued Hastings. "I am hopeful that my colleagues will also recognize the significance of this initiative and support this important bill." Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors (6) include: Representatives Madeleine Z. Bordallo (D-GU), Corrine Brown (D-FL), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Eni F. H. Faleomavaega (D-AS), Pedro R. Pierluisi (D-PR), and Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### National_Hurricane_Research_Initiative_Act_of_2011.pdf
06.17.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) sent the following letter to Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Administrator J. Randolph Babbitt requesting two 18-month lease extensions for the Broward County School Board and Fort Lauderdale Strikers soccer team of Lockhart and Fort Lauderdale Stadiums, respectively, which expire on June 30, 2011. Joining Hastings on the letter are fellow South Florida colleagues Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Congressman Ted Deutch, and Congressman Allen West. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter). The 60-acre Lockhart Stadium site was given along with Fort Lauderdale Executive Airport to the City of Fort Lauderdale in 1947. For over 24 years, the City has supported interscholastic sports through a cooperative lease agreement with the School Board. In addition, Fort Lauderdale Stadium currently serves as the home of the Fort Lauderdale Strikers. Community efforts to keep Fort Lauderdale students and the Strikers playing at the Executive Airport stadiums are now in their third iteration. The FAA agreed to prior extensions of the lease terms in 2008 and 2009. June 17, 2011 Mr. J. Randolph BabbittAdministratorFederal Aviation AdministrationU.S. Department of Transportation800 Independence Avenue, S.W.Washington, D.C. 20591 Dear Administrator Babbitt: We write to urge the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to reconsider its decision regarding the Broward County School Board and the Fort Lauderdale Strikers' respective lease agreements for Lockhart and Fort Lauderdale Stadiums, located at Fort Lauderdale Executive Airport. Should the current lease agreements expire on June 30, student athletes as well as the Strikers soccer team will have no choice but to find a new place to play. Given the extraordinary importance of these stadiums to the greater community, we request that the FAA approve two 18-month lease extensions. Lockhart and Fort Lauderdale Stadiums have been landmarks in the South Florida community over the past 50 years. Student football games, soccer matches, and various other events regularly draw crowds of thousands from in and around our Congressional districts and help support the local economy. Furthermore, Lockhart Stadium is central to the interscholastic programs of several Broward County schools, and serves as the home field for Fort Lauderdale, Stranahan, and Dillard High Schools. We recognize the FAA's long-term plan to zone the property for airport use, including revenue generation, and the City of Fort Lauderdale has taken steps to comply with these goals. In the interim, we ask for your understanding while redevelopment negotiations continue between the City and Schlitterbahn Development Group. A short-term extension of the School Board and Strikers' lease agreements is in the best interest of all parties involved, ensuring that Fort Lauderdale's students, athletes, and sports fans have access to quality athletic facilities while supporting the needs of the FAA. Currently, the Executive Airport receives approximately five percent of the gross receipts from the School Board and Strikers' stadium revenue. The City has previously proposed extending by 18 months the terms of the present agreements at an increased rate of 10 percent of revenues. We strongly encourage the FAA to approve these terms, which would further cement the Executive Airport's role in the community, provide for the continued maintenance of the stadiums, and allow FAA and City officials more time to plan for the future use of the property. Administrator Babbitt, we remain hopeful that this matter can be resolved swiftly and in a manner that allows the South Florida community to continue using Lockhart and Fort Lauderdale Stadiums. Thank you for your consideration and we look forward to your response. Should you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact us. Sincerely, Alcee L. HastingsMember of Congress Debbie Wasserman SchultzMember of Congress Ted DeutchMember of Congress Allen WestMember of Congress Joint_Letter_to_FAA_Admin__Babbitt_Regarding_Lockhart_Stadium_-_06_17_11.pdf
06.03.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in celebration of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) Pride Month: "I am proud to join our nation's LGBT community and its allies in recognizing June as LGBT Pride Month. Thanks to the courage, leadership, and sacrifices of countless individuals, we have made great strides in the ongoing struggle for LGBT equality. And, while we continue to face both old and new challenges to equal rights for all Americans, we know that real progress is not only achievable when we work together, but unstoppable. "Last year, the United States reaffirmed its commitment to honor, integrity, and the fair treatment of all Americans when Congress voted to repeal the discriminatory law known as 'Don't Ask, Don't Tell.' However, it is not a 'done deal' yet. Without certification, our gay and lesbian service members remain at risk. Therefore, I urge President Obama, Defense Secretary Gates, and Admiral Mullen, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, to certify repeal as soon as possible and implement a non-discrimination policy. "Furthermore, we cannot expect our military to recognize LGBT Americans when the federal government itself does so piecemeal. As I have said time and again, this nation can only truly prosper when all of its citizens are guaranteed equal recognition and protection under the law. To this end, I stand ready to work together with my colleagues in Congress to repeal the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA), pass the Employment Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA), and pass the Uniting American Families Act (UAFA) once and for all. "In addition, this June also marks the 30th anniversary of the AIDS epidemic, which continues to impact the LGBT community and our nation as a whole in profound ways. Routine screening for HIV has been proven to save lives and reduce new infections. That is why I recently introduced the Increasing Access to Voluntary Screening for HIV/AIDS and STIs Act of 2011, and continue working to secure funding for the AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP) and other national efforts. "Finally, I commend the tremendous work being done by the It Gets Better Project and other organizations in support of LGBT youth. We must do more to prevent bullying and suicide amongst our young people. Together with my colleagues in Congress and the Obama administration, I will continue working to prevent bullying before it is too late for one more young person. "LGBT rights are American rights. As we celebrate LGBT Pride Month, I reaffirm my commitment to achieving equality for all Americans, regardless of sexual orientation, gender identity, or gender expression." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
06.02.2011	Today, Reps. Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), Carolyn McCarthy (D-NY), Donald M. Payne (D-NJ), Edolphus "Ed" Towns (D-NY), Tim Holden (D-PA), and Ted Deutch (D-FL) reacted to the Department of Education's (DOE) release of their Gainful Employment regulations. Under the Higher Education Act, proprietary colleges and universities and career training programs are required to offer programs that lead to gainful employment in a legally recognized occupation in order to participate in the federal student aid programs. The term "Gainful Employment," has been in the statute for over 40 years, and during the most recent reauthorization of the Higher Education Act, there was no debate or discussion on a need to further define the term. DOE recently released a regulation that would make programs ineligible for federal student aid if they fail to meet one of three measures of "gainful employment" which utilize the student loan debt-to-income ratio of graduates and repayment rate of graduates in the programs rather than actual measures of educational quality such as job placement and graduation rates. "It is deeply troubling that an administration supposedly committed to increasing college completion in the United States would propose a regulation that restricts minority access to higher education and limits job opportunities for those who need them most," said Congressman Alcee L. Hastings. "Career colleges are economic engines all across the country with demonstrated successful student outcomes. This misguided regulation not only impacts the thousands of students who will be left high and dry in their efforts to obtain a college degree, but also the many dedicated individuals who will lose their jobs as entire programs are eliminated. Rising student debt and unscrupulous practices are certainly legitimate concerns. However, they are not limited to private sector institutions, and this regulation fails to adequately address either issue. I remain committed to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to implement meaningful reforms to our higher education system that truly protect educational opportunities for all students." "As a nurse who grew up middle class and was able to pursue a successful profession thanks to vocational training, I know how important it is for these types of schools to thrive in communities across the country," said Congresswoman Carolyn McCarthy. "While improvements have been made to the gainful employment rule, I remain concerned that it could hurt good programs across the country and deny students a choice of educational programs. At a time when we are focused on creating jobs and making the American workforce more competitive, we need to maintain close oversight over the implementation of this rule." "I acknowledge that the Department has taken many of the expressed concerns into consideration. However, I remain concerned about the quality of this metric system as well as the impact this rule would have on nontraditional students – including first generation college students, displaced workers, and single parents. Proprietary colleges and universities and career training programs are strong partners in the effort to meet the President's goal of leading the world in the percentage of college graduates by 2020. My reservation is that this rule will disproportionately harm non-traditional students and limit their participation in achieving our nation's college completion goal," said Congressman Donald M. Payne. "With a disproportionately high representation of minority students and first-in-the-family college attendees, I am concerned that the rule proposed by the Department may adversely impact these groups the most," said Congressman Edolphus "Ed" Towns. "Bad apples are present in every industry, but we cannot take a broad-stroke approach that could ultimately eliminate high-performing programs. I look forward to continuing to examine the important issues of student debt and educational value with my colleagues and our Administration. However, I cannot support a rule that has the potential to harm so many vulnerable students." "The Department of Education has failed to adequately examine the full impact of these regulations on students and working Americans. The implementation of these misguided rules will be so burdensome and the impact so broad that even reputable schools, which have consistently provided a quality education for students often left behind by traditional institutions, will be adversely impacted meaning loss of jobs and educational opportunities for thousands of Americans," said Congressman Tim Holden. "Rising costs and increasing educational debt are not isolated to private sector colleges and universities. If the Department truly believes there is a correlation between gainful employment and student debt, their focus should not be narrowed to only one sector." "My concern throughout this entire process has been for first generation college students who need access to quality education in order to find better paying jobs in this difficult economy," said Congressman Ted Deutch. "We must make certain that these new rules do not undermine these vital goals and end up shutting down opportunities that so many desperately need." In February, a bipartisan amendment to H.R. 1, the Fiscal Year 2011 Continuing Resolution, passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 289-136, to block funding for the implementation of DOE's proposed Gainful Employment regulation. The amendment was introduced by House Education and the Workforce Committee Chairman John Kline (R-MN) and Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), Virginia Foxx (R-NC), Carolyn McCarthy (D-NY), and Donald M. Payne (D-NJ). Additionally, on April 27th, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), Education and the Workforce Committee Chairman John Kline, Congressman Robert Andrews (D-NJ) and a group 113 Members of Congress sent a bipartisan letter to President Obama requesting that the DOE withdraw its proposed Gainful Employment regulation. ###
05.31.2011	Today, Reps. Alcee L. Hastings (FL-23), Corrine Brown (FL-3), Kathy Castor (FL-11), Ted Deutch (FL-19), and Frederica S. Wilson (FL-17) responded to Florida Governor Rick Scott signing into law legislation (HB 353) requiring that applicants for benefits through the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) Program be drug tested. TANF is a block grant program administered by the Department of Health and Human Services' (HHS) Office of Family Assistance in order to help States provide work opportunities to needy families. Under HB 353, applicants must pay for the drug testing upfront, which typically costs about $35. Individuals who test negative for drugs are reimbursed the cost of the screening while those who test positive for drugs lose their benefits for at least one year. "The TANF Program helps tens of thousands of Floridians care for their families and access vital job opportunities," said Congressman Alcee L. Hastings. "Governor Scott's new drug testing law is not only an affront to families in need and detrimental to our nation's ongoing economic recovery, it is downright unconstitutional. If Governor Scott wants to drug test recipients of TANF benefits, where does he draw the line? Are families receiving Medicaid, State Emergency Relief, or educational grants and loans next?" "Drug tests for benefits recipients represent an extreme and illegal invasion of personal privacy," said Congresswoman Corrine Brown. "Indeed, investigating people when there is probable cause to suspect they are abusing drugs is one thing, but these tests amount to strip searching our state's most vulnerable residents merely because they rely on the government for financial support during these difficult economic times." "Republican Gov. Rick Scott's rigid ideology blinds him to the struggles of Florida families who were hit hard by the worst recession in our lifetimes," said Congresswoman Kathy Castor. "Scott and the Republican Legislature add a costly and bureaucratic burden without any demonstration that a problem exists." "The number of needy families relying on welfare assistance in Florida has skyrocketed by over 50 percent since this devastating recession struck," said Congressman Ted Deutch. "If Governor Scott were truly concerned about reducing our state welfare rolls, he would focus on creating jobs and economic opportunity for Florida's families." "Governor Scott has made a conscious decision to attack working families by subjecting them to needless drug tests instead of focusing on creating jobs," said Congresswoman Frederica S. Wilson. "This is nothing but an attempt to squeeze poor people, who cannot afford to pay for their own testing, off of welfare rolls. Why does he want to balance the budget on the backs of our most vulnerable? This is an absolute shame." ###
05.28.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement commemorating Memorial Day, which is observed on May 30: "Let us remember those who have fought and those who have fallen, sacrificing their lives in the name of freedom and democracy. In the course of history, we have been involved in many conflicts on several continents to defend our nation and our allies and to promote the ideals of self-sovereignty, democracy, and human rights. Fathers and sons, mothers and daughters have selflessly fought on lands that they had never seen, to protect people that they had never met. I laud their courage, honor, and compassion. "As our Armed Forces remain engaged in Iraq and Afghanistan, young men and women will continue to pay the ultimate price to defend our nation. Let us honor the memory of the 4,400 Americans who have died in Iraq and the more than 1,500 who have died in Afghanistan. Let us also ensure that those who return to their families are provided with the most accessible, affordable and quality services and benefits. "On this year's Memorial Day, my thoughts and prayers are with the men and women in uniform who are currently serving and to those who have served this nation so valiantly. Thanks to their courage and dedication, we can enjoy freedom and democracy here at home. We are indebted forever to our fallen service men and women and we must ensure that their sacrifices live on in our memories. I encourage my colleagues in Congress and all Americans to join me in honoring them." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.27.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) hailed the capture of Serbian war crimes suspect Ratko Mladic. Mladic, the former Bosnian Serb military leader, was indicted for the 1995 Srebrenica massacre in which over 7,500 Bosnian Muslim men and boys were murdered in what the International Court of Justice ruled was genocide. "General Mladic organized the single worst atrocity in Europe since the end of World War Two, and I am pleased that 16 years later he will finally be brought to justice," said Hastings. "His arrest brings Serbia and its neighbors one step closer to closing a horrific and sad chapter in their history. Genocide knows no statute of limitations. The families of his victims have never forgotten. His past has finally caught up to him, and now he will have to answer for it. "I commend the Serbian leaders who had the courage to arrest him despite the unconscionable support he enjoys among some segments of the population. This man brought nothing but shame and misery to hundreds of thousands of people in the Balkans. No matter religion, ethnicity, or nationality, there is no justification for cruel and senseless slaughter, and all who participated in the Srebrenica massacre should be brought to justice. "Let this be a message to all those who commit atrocities: the world will not forget, you will be hunted forever, and no matter how old you are you will be brought to justice. This has been a bad month for terrorists and war criminals in hiding – I can only hope that the rest of the year is worse." Mladic is scheduled to be extradited within the week to the Hague to stand trial for war crimes. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.26.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) was named Co-Chairman of the Congressional Sugar Caucus. With this position, Hastings cements a leadership role in the ongoing Congressional dialogue of one of South Florida's most prominent industries. Congressman Mike Simpson (R-ID) will serve with Hastings as Co-Chairman of the Sugar Caucus. "I am honored to serve as Co-Chairman of a caucus that so fundamentally impacts the economy in my district and the livelihoods of many of my constituents," said Hastings. "This new position will allow me to share my own personal experiences and knowledge pertaining to the role sugar plays here in the United States and its impact on the economy and jobs. I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress to help raise awareness of this vital industry and ensure that our farmers have the resources necessary to meet our nation's agricultural needs." Florida is the largest producer of sugarcane in the United States. As of the 2008-2009 crop year, approximately 400,000 acres of Florida land are dedicated to the growth of sugarcane, yielding over 13 million tons of stalks and over 1.5 million tons of raw sugar annually. Sugar production creates jobs for approximately 25,000 Floridians. The Congressional Sugar Caucus provides Members of Congress and their staff with a forum to discuss issues affecting the domestic sugar industry by holding meetings and briefings and focusing on coalition-building through education and communication. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.26.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement following the passage of amendment #128 to H.R. 1540, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012. The amendment introduced by Hastings requires Members of Congress to be given in-depth briefings on the cultures, religions, ethnicities, geographies, histories, and politics of nations in which the Armed Forces are engaged or are proposed to engage in military action. (Please find attached a copy of the amendment). "I have offered to the National Defense Authorization Act an amendment to ensure that Members of Congress are fully briefed on the complexities of the nations and regions in which our Armed Forces are engaged. "With our Armed Forces engaged in multiple conflicts around the world, I am concerned that Members of Congress do not have enough opportunities to obtain the necessary knowledge when judging whether to commit U.S. lives and resources to these enormously complex regions. "Very few of these conflicts ever present just 'good guys' and 'bad guys' but rather tangled webs of different loyalties, ethnicities, interests, goals, histories, and cultures. The problem is that few Members really grasp the immense complexities of geography, history, culture, religion, and demography in these countries. "Whether Afghanistan or Pakistan, Libya or Iraq, Members are asked to support hundreds of billions of dollars every year to wage war against forces and in places we do not fully understand. Today we have scores of new Members who, for the most part, do not have a background in foreign affairs, and do not have a deep understanding of the current conflicts where our Armed Forces are engaged. "Before voting with respect to funding the deployment of our Armed Forces, there ought to be a time period for Members to learn about and consider the complexities and uncertainties of engaging our military in conflicts around the world. My amendment seeks to create more opportunities for Members to become educated about these conflicts before voting to fund military operations there and I am pleased to see it included in the National Defense Authorization Act." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Amendment_128_to_H.R._1540.pdf
05.25.2011	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement honoring Rachel Wheeler of Lighthouse Point, Florida for her extraordinary contributions to the people of Haiti: "At 11 years of age, Rachel has succeeded in raising over $170,000 to build houses in Haiti. She first learned of the nation's extreme poverty two years ago after attending a presentation by Food for the Poor President and CEO Robin Mahfood. Rachel took immediate action and set a goal to build 13 homes, each costing $2,600. Her campaign included chamber meeting announcements, television news appearances, a webpage, and advocacy throughout her school and neighborhood. Her zeal and devotion were met with widespread support, and she soon expanded her goal to a 25-residence village that includes larger homes. Now, Rachel would like to expand her project to include a school. "Though Rachel first launched her efforts prior to the earthquake that devastated the nation's capital, Port au Prince, those efforts are now even more invaluable in the tragedy's wake. Having spent much of my career fighting for the people of Haiti, I am both honored and humbled by Rachel's work. She has been able to garner coast-to-coast support and was named one of the country's top ten youth volunteers in the Prudential Spirit of Community Awards competition. We here in Washington can certainly learn from her tenacious spirit, prodigious initiative, and momentous impact. If Rachel can do it, why can't we? "I am most impressed that despite the fact that this remarkable young lady has accomplished more in her 11 years than many do in their lifetimes, she readily acknowledges that her efforts have only just begun. Rachel's vision and success are a shining example not only to her peers, but to anyone who has ever questioned how much of a difference one individual can truly make." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.22.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement regarding the upcoming 2011 hurricane season, which begins on June 1, 2011: "With hurricane season rapidly approaching it is never too early to begin planning. Experts are predicting an active hurricane season for 2011, posing significant danger for our communities. Consequently, it is critically important that all Floridians adequately prepare for the possibility of a severe storm. With June 1st fast approaching, we must ensure that we take the necessary steps to be ready in the event a hurricane makes landfall. "I am continuing to work closely with federal, state, and local agencies, as well as with my colleagues in Congress, to ensure that the necessary resources are in place to expeditiously respond to a natural disaster. In particular, I have continued to push for much-needed reform as it relates to prioritizing power restoration, debris removal, placing generators at gas stations, and ensuring temporary housing is available to those who are displaced. "Please feel free to call my Ft. Lauderdale office at 954-733-2800 or West Palm Beach office at 561-881-9618 with any concerns or questions that you have regarding this hurricane season as well as visit my official web site at www.alceehastings.house.gov, where I have provided additional information and resources to help you with this year's hurricane preparations." Below please find some emergency numbers which may be helpful as you prepare for hurricane season: • FEMA (Federal Emergency Management Agency) Registration: 1-800-621-FEMA (3362) • State of Florida Emergency Information 24-hour hotline (FEIL): 1-800-342-3557 • State Volunteer and Donations Hotline: 1-800-FL-HELP1 (1-800-354-3571) • American Red Cross: 1-800-HELP-NOW (1-800-435-7669) or Assistance 1-866-Get Info (1-866-438-4636) • Florida Department of Elder Affairs: 1-800-96-ELDER (1-800-963-5337) • Florida Power and Light: 1-800-4-OUTAGE (1-800-468-8243) • Florida Department of Financial Services Storm Helpline: 1-800-22-STORM (1-800-227-8676) • Attorney General Bondi's Gouging Hotline: 1-866-966-7226 • Agricultural and Consumer Services Price Gouging Hotline: 1-800-HELP-FLA (1-800-435-7352) Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.20.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in response to Governor Scott signing HB 1355, a controversial bill overhauling Florida's election law: "The dastardly denigration of Florida's citizenry by the Florida Legislature and Governor cannot go unnoticed and/or unchallenged. These people have turned the clock back 40 years, so that they have a political advantage. After the stolen election of 2000, I helped lead the charge to pass the bipartisan Help America Vote Act. I cannot simply stand by and not help to challenge the backward actions of the Governor and Legislature. The NAACP, ACLU, and League of Women Voters should all challenge this backward action in federal and state courts. If they don't, I will." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.17.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the extension and re-designation by Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano of Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Haitian nationals in the United States: "I applaud the administration's decision to extend and re-designate TPS for Haitian migrants in this country prior to the devastating earthquake of January 12, 2010. "At a time when Haiti faces a delicate political transition and remains in the midst of a fragile recovery, TPS is a vital part of Haiti's rebuilding. Not only is the country simply unable to take in what would amount to thousands of repatriated individuals, but TPS beneficiaries are able to legally work and provide the remittances that serve as a lifeline to their families back home and bolster the sputtering Haitian economy. "As I commend the administration for its decision to extend TPS, I pledge to continue the fight to end double standard immigration policies as they pertain to Haitian migrants. I have been actively engaged in calling for TPS of Haitian nationals for years and have continuously called upon current and previous administrations to address this matter. Prior to DHS's initial designation, I authored key legislation, the Haitian Protection Act, which would have designated Haitian nationals in the United States as eligible for TPS. "However, TPS is only the first step toward bringing equity to our immigration system. Though it has remained largely silent on this matter, it is imperative that the administration take steps to address the thousands of individuals suffering in Haiti who have played by the rules yet languish for years as a result of visa backlogs. "It is my sincere hope that this welcome announcement is joined by a renewed commitment by this administration to the long-term sustainable recovery of our neighbor. A secure and thriving Haiti is integral to the stability and prosperity of our entire region." Haitians in the United States who may be eligible for TPS should go to www.uscis.gov/tps or call USCIS toll-free at 1-800-375-5283. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.12.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in response to H.R. 1745, legislation offered by the House Committee on Ways and Means Chairman Dave Camp (R-MI). The legislation would allow states to do away with federal unemployment compensation programs that assist unemployed Americans: "This is yet another attempt by the Republican-led House majority to undermine the interests of the American people. Rather than propose a single bill that would actually promote job creation – something that the American people and economy desperately need – the Republicans have introduced a bill with the word 'Jobs' in the title that in fact won't create one single job. "They have already drastically cut funding for vital programs that assist those in need. This legislation shows the Republicans' true colors – going back on their word to extend unemployment benefits that were agreed upon in December. That deal was made after Republicans held unemployment compensation ransom in order to ensure tax cuts for the wealthy. Now, a mere five months later, the Republican House majority is intent on breaking this promise for those who are most in need while continuing to support the interests of the wealthiest in this nation. "This has nothing to do with deficit reduction and everything to do with Republican efforts to demolish the past century's social compact, redistributing wealth to the richest, and tailoring government to serve the needs of the most privileged. This legislation is beyond reprehensible. Beating-up on struggling Americans will not fix the enormous challenges facing our economy, and shame on the Republicans for refusing to acknowledge what is plain to all Americans. I will continue to fight against such misguided efforts which will only hurt this nation, and instead focus on creating jobs to help struggling Americans get back on their feet." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.11.2011	Today, the Republican-led House of Representatives defeated two amendments introduced by Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) to H.R. 1229, a bill that among other things, would give the Department of Interior a 60-day deadline by which to approve offshore drilling permit applications. Under the bill, if the Secretary fails to act within this 60-day period, the permit is automatically approved. Hastings' Amendment #8 requires any new application for drilling or exploration to include a detailed description of to what extent and by when any oil found on the leased property will decrease the price of oil for the American consumer. Furthermore, Hastings' Amendment #11 strikes Section 207 of H.R. 1229, ending the awarding of attorneys' fees under the Equal Access to Justice Act for many legal challenges seeking enforcement of our country's environmental standards. As currently drafted, Section 207 makes it easier for large oil and gas companies to completely ignore these laws and regulations. (Please find attached a copy of the amendments). "The Republicans' 'drill baby drill' agenda will not bring down the price of gas at the pump for hardworking Americans. It will not help our economy. And it certainly won't help our environment. Instead, the only discernable goal of the Republicans' so-called energy plan is to help line the pockets of oil companies at taxpayer expense," said Hastings. "This bill is a windfall for the large energy companies responsible for the Exxon Valdez and BP Deepwater Horizon oil spills at the same time these companies are turning high gas prices for hardworking Americans into record profits for themselves. "It was just over a year ago that the explosion of the BP Deepwater Horizon oil rig killed 11 men, disbursed 4.9 million barrels of crude oil into the water, destroyed countless businesses and created an environmental catastrophe in the Gulf of Mexico. There is only one way to ensure that there will never be another spill and that is to stop drilling offshore once and for all," further noted Hastings. "I believe that our current energy policies must be changed. We have a responsibility to ourselves and future generations to do so. Unfortunately, the defeat of my amendments demonstrates that Republicans in Congress are more interested in making big oil tycoons richer than doing what is right for the average American." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Amendment_8_to_H.R._1229.pdf Amendment_11_to_H.R._1229.pdf
05.10.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) joined Representatives Al Green (D-TX) and Mike Turner (R-OH) in hosting a Congressional staff briefing entitled "Fair Housing, Unfair Practices II: Recent Trends in Housing Discrimination." It is the second staff briefing Hastings has hosted this year to discuss emerging fair housing concerns, particularly those surrounding ways in which banks are maintaining and selling foreclosed homes. Panelists at today's briefing included: Shanna Smith, President and Chief Executive Officer, National Fair Housing Alliance; Sara Pratt, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Enforcement and Program, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity; and Aracely Panameno, Director of Latino Affairs, Center for Responsible Lending. "I am thrilled to see so many people passionate about eradicating housing discrimination, as it is up to us to ensure all citizens are given the opportunity to truly live the 'American Dream'—to own a home and live in a neighborhood of his or her choice—completely free of discrimination," said Hastings. "Housing discrimination is not just an issue that affects minorities, it affects everyone. Women with children, veterans, elderly persons, and other exploited groups have all been subject to discriminatory treatment in housing," further noted Hastings. "Unfortunately, the current housing crisis has exacerbated the prevalence of housing discrimination. Stable housing is thus a dream delayed rather than achieved as our nation struggles to regroup from the worst housing crisis in decades." In February of this year, the U.S. housing market began experiencing its largest decline in 27 years. Right now, 11 percent of all homes in the U.S. are currently standing empty. Similarly, 19 percent of homes in Florida are sitting vacant. That number is 63 percent higher than it was just ten years ago. At the end of 2010, 23 percent of all U.S. homeowners with a mortgage owed more on their homes than their homes were worth. In 1996, 89 percent of Americans believed that it was better to own a home than to rent one. Today, that number has fallen to 63 percent. An all-time record of 2.87 million U.S. households received a foreclosure filing in 2010. "As a representative from South Florida, it pains me to see that our region is by far one of the hardest hit in the country, with the burden of the foreclosure crisis falling most heavily on minority communities," said Hastings. "There were nearly 3,000 foreclosure cases filed in Palm Beach County alone between 2010 and 2011. It is clear that the housing crisis still plagues the foundation and structure of our communities. "As more people lose their homes and begin to return to the rental market, they are faced with the hardships of fair housing violations," Hastings continued. "Lending and housing discrimination practices exacerbate segregation, injustice, and the kind of homogeneity that breeds stagnation, and there is simply no room for such qualities in the strong communities we envision for the future. "I encourage everyone to continue to fight against injustices, like housing discrimination, which plague our society. Discrimination is a disease that will continue to spread unless we actively seek to cure it." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.05.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced the Increasing Access to Voluntary Screening for HIV/AIDS and STIs Act of 2011, which will help reduce the spread and morbidities associated with HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted infections (STIs). (Please find attached a copy of the bill). Among other things, this bill requires Medicaid to cover voluntary screening for HIV/AIDS and other STIs as a mandatory service for all individuals 13 and older, and requires the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to provide Medicare reimbursement for such tests for all beneficiaries 13 and older. In addition, this Act requires group health plans, insurance issuers providing group or individual health insurance coverage, and federal employee health benefits programs to cover routine screening for HIV/AIDS and other STIs; provides states with the support they need to cover low-income individuals infected with HIV until Medicaid is expanded in 2014 under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; and supports access to early medical and mental treatment by linking patients to appropriate services. "HIV/AIDS and STIs are 'syndemics' – overlapping epidemics. Each year in the United States, almost 19 million new STIs occur and an estimated 56,300 Americans are newly infected with HIV. Due to various factors, including stigma, a lack of health care coverage, and an inaccurate perception of risk among communities and providers, HIV and other long-term, initially asymptomatic STIs often remain undiagnosed or are diagnosed at later stages. "All individuals engaging in sexual contact must have access to voluntary screening that is confidential, rapid, accurate, and medically appropriate. In addition, supporting scientifically based, culturally competent, and age-appropriate interventions is key to reducing the incidence of HIV/AIDS and other STIs. Combining the effectiveness of voluntary, routine screening with smart policy can help stem their transmission and improve the health outcomes associated with these infections. "The Increasing Access to Voluntary Screening for HIV/AIDS and STIs Act of 2011 takes an aggressive and multifaceted approach to combating HIV/AIDS and other STIs, including Chlamydia, gonorrhea, syphilis, hepatitis B, hepatitis C, and human papillomavirus (HPV), by increasing access to voluntary screening and other preventive methods while preserving patient rights and confidentiality. "HIV/AIDS and STIs remain a significant challenge to individual and public health. Through early detection and treatment, as well as comprehensive education for health care providers and communities, we can begin to reverse the tide of infections and improve the health of our communities and nation as a whole." Original Co-sponsors (25) include: Representatives John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Raul M. Grijalva (D-AZ), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Jim McGovern (D-MA), Jesse L. Jackson, Jr. (D-IL), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Robert A. Brady (D-PA), Maurice D. Hinchey (D-NY), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Donald M. Payne (D-NJ), Jose E. Serrano (D-NY), Bobby L. Rush (D-IL), Donna M. Christensen (D-VI), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Wm. Lacy Clay (D-MO), Henry C. "Hank" Johnson, Jr. (D-GA), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Barney Frank (D-MA), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Charles B. Rangel (D-NY), Jared Polis (D-CO), David Cicilline (D-RI), Danny K. Davis (D-IL), and Tammy Baldwin (D-WI). In addition, the Increasing Access to Voluntary Screening for HIV/AIDS and STIs Act of 2011 is supported by the Harlem United AIDS Center, The AIDS Institute, AIDS Healthcare Foundation (AHF), the National Association of People with AIDS (NAPWA), the Urban Coalition for HIV/AIDS Prevention Services (UCHAPS), AIDS United, the National Alliance of State and Territorial AIDS Directors (NASTAD), the Human Rights Campaign (HRC), and the National Coalition of STD Directors (NCSD). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Rep._Alcee_L._Hastings_Screening_Bill_2011.pdf
05.03.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement regarding National Teacher Appreciation Week and National Teacher Day: "As our nation's children enter the school system, they begin spending more time in the classroom than they do with their parents. That's why, this week, we celebrate the efforts and achievements of America's educators through our observance of National Teacher Appreciation Week and today's recognition of National Teacher Day. "Behind every scientific breakthrough, every bestselling novel, and every successful business, there stands a chain of remarkable individuals who have decided to dedicate their lives to the seminal practice of opening minds and promoting growth of character and capacity. In truth, teachers hold positions of exceptional consequence, as it is their responsibility to help transform the most vulnerable members of our population—our children—into strong, productive, innovative members of society. Classrooms serve as a child's first community, in which lessons of emotional and social intelligence are just as prevalent as intellectual and academic pursuits. Teachers not only facilitate classroom learning, but also serve as role models for the young people who come to them each day for learning and guidance. "Through tireless commitment, innovative methods, and a remarkable passion for promoting learning and opportunity, educators have made incredible strides in the past several decades. The dropout rate for U.S. high school students decreased from 14 percent in 1980 to eight percent in 2008. American universities are consistently ranked among the best in the world, and the ranking of American 15-year-olds on scientific literacy skills has risen internationally since 2006. The obstacles faced by our nation's educators are certainly considerable as they aim to prepare young people for the challenges and competition of a global society, and we use this week of commemoration to express our unending gratitude and support as they pursue their goals. "We all have memories of those special teachers who truly made a difference in our lives, and I urge everyone to recognize those individuals this week by letting them know how their efforts have made a profound impact." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
05.03.2011	Last night, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced a resolution expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that a Palestinian government, which includes Hamas must be prohibited from receiving United States aid until that government publicly commits to the Quartet principles. The Quartet – the United States, the European Union, the United Nations, and the Russian Federation, require Hamas to recognize Israel's right to exist, to renounce violence, and to accept previous Israeli-Palestinian agreements. (Please find attached a copy of the resolution). "Last week on April 27, 2011, Fatah and Hamas initialed a document of understandings as a foundation for a 'Palestinian National Accord' agreement, which was signed by all of the Palestinian factions this morning in Cairo, under the aegis of the Egyptian transitional government and with the presence of Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas and Hamas Political Bureau head Khaled Mash'al. "That same night on Al-Jazeera TV, Foreign Minister of the Hamas Gaza Government, and a member of the Hamas delegation to the Cairo discussions, Mahmoud Al-Zahhar said: 'We believe that negotiations with the Israeli enemy are in vain....It will be impossible for an interim government to take part in the peace process with Israel.' "We should also be troubled by the announcement by a lead Fatah negotiator that Palestinian Authority Prime Minister Salam Fayyad, who has been a leader in developing the Palestinian economy in the West Bank as well as a primary peace negotiator with Israel, will not be a part of the interim unity government. "Hamas embraces violence against innocent women, children, and men and calls for the destruction of Israel in its charter. It has been a designated terrorist organization by the United States since 1995 and by the European Union since 2003. Hamas terrorists have murdered hundreds of innocent Israelis, kidnapped and refused Red Cross access to Israeli soldiers, smuggled Iranian arms into the Gaza Strip, and launched thousands of rockets and mortars into Israel, including more than 300 since the beginning of 2011. "I urge my colleagues to support this resolution and reaffirm the notions that a Palestinian government which includes Hamas, a U.S.-designated terrorist group, must be prohibited from receiving U.S. aid. This resolution further acknowledges that the United States House of Representatives has a deep interest in achieving a resolution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict through the creation of a viable and independent Palestinian state living in peace alongside the State of Israel." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### H.Res._244.pdf
05.02.2011	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the killing of Osama bin Laden: "We should all applaud the President and his administration, military, and our intelligence community, for their heroic efforts to capture and kill Osama bin Laden. The men and women serving in the military, intelligence and counterterrorism communities work courageously on the front lines each day to ensure the security of our nation and the world. "Osama bin Laden, for 10 years, has held the title of scourge of the earth. I am glad that justice has been served. It is my hope that the families of 9/11 and the East African Embassy bombings can find a little more closure now. "We must be extremely mindful that Al Qaeda has not been removed, nor has the sentiment of this very dangerous societal element. We must remain ever vigilant. "The irony of two events on May 1 should not be lost. First, the late Pope John Paul II was beatified and moved closer to Sainthood. He spent his life blazing a path of enlightenment, peace, love, and uplifting humanity. Secondly, bin Laden spent his life lighting a path of murder, deceit, and the destruction of humanity. While one found Sainthood, the other found Satan. It is good that bin Laden no longer plagues the earth and the hope for human kind is that Pope John Paul II would be our exemplar of goodness." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.26.2011	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), Education and the Workforce Committee Chairman John Kline, Congressman Robert Andrews (D-NJ) and a group 113 Members of Congress sent the following bipartisan letter to President Obama requesting that the Department of Education (DOE) withdraw its proposed "gainful employment" regulation. This regulation would place arbitrary restrictions on private-sector colleges and universities that would disproportionately affect the most disadvantaged students. The House of Representatives passed a bipartisan amendment to H.R. 1, the Full Year Continuing Appropriations Act of 2011, by a vote of 289-136, which would have blocked the implementation of this regulation. Furthermore, the letter expresses disappointment that this language was not included in the final legislation, which appropriated funds through the end of Fiscal Year 2011. It also urges the administration to withdraw this regulation and work with Congress to enact meaningful reforms to our nation's higher education system that preserve access to postsecondary education and expand career choices for all Americans. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter). April 27, 2011 The Honorable Barack ObamaPresident of the United StatesThe White House1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NWWashington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President, We write to express our disappointment that language was not included in the final, compromise funding measure for fiscal year 2011 prohibiting the Department of Education from implementing its misguided regulation defining "gainful employment." In your first State of the Union, you proclaimed the United States would once again lead the world in college graduates by 2020. However, contrary to this objective, the Department's arbitrary proposed rules on private sector colleges and universities will disproportionately affect the most disadvantaged of students and limit access to one of the few sectors of higher education that continually evolves to meet workforce needs. While the regulations attempt to address real problems, they miss the target. Instead, the implementation of these new rules will be so burdensome and the projected impact so broad that many reputable schools, particularly those serving the most at-risk students, will be adversely impacted. These rules will limit student access to higher education while failing to effectively address problem schools and rising student debt. Today, over 3 million students attend career colleges. Seventy-six percent of these students live independently, without parental support. Sixty-three percent are 24 years old or older. Fifty-four percent delayed postsecondary education after high school. Forty-seven percent have dependent children, and almost one-third of these students are single parents. The Department's suggested approach will harm these nontraditional and lower-income students who have no choice but to rely on student loans to pursue a postsecondary education and need the flexibility career colleges provide. Given the significant impact of this proposed rule, the only responsible course of action is for the Department to completely withdraw this regulation and work with Congress to develop policies that truly protect taxpayer funds and measure and improve educational quality across all sectors of higher education. The House of Representatives passed by a wide, bipartisan vote of 289 to136 an amendment to H.R. 1, the Full Year Continuing Appropriations Act of 2011, which would have done just that. Though we are disappointed this language was not included in the final legislation, we hope that as we move forward, you will encourage the Department to jettison its current rule and work with us to enact meaningful reforms to our higher education system that preserve access to postsecondary education and expand career choices for all Americans. Sincerely, Alcee L. HastingsMember of Congress John KlineMember of Congress Robert E. AndrewsMember of Congress Virginia FoxxMember of Congress Donald M. PayneMember of Congress Carolyn McCarthyMember of Congress Sandy AdamsMember of Congress Todd AkinMember of Congress Jason AltmireMember of Congress Steve AustriaMember of Congress Michele BachmannMember of Congress Spencer BachusMember of Congress Lou BarlettaMember of Congress John BarrowMember of Congress Roscoe BartlettMember of Congress Shelley BerkleyMember of Congress Judy BiggertMember of Congress Brian P. BilbrayMember of Congress Gus BilirakisMember of Congress Rob BishopMember of Congress Marsha BlackburnMember of Congress Jo BonnerMember of Congress Vern BuchananMember of Congress Larry BuchsonMember of Congress Dan BurtonMember of Congress Francisco "Quico" CansecoMember of Congress André CarsonMember of Congress John CarterMember of Congress Jason ChaffetzMember of Congress Mike ConawayMember of Congress Chip CravaackMember of Congress Ander CrenshawMember of Congress Mark CritzMember of Congress Henry CuellarMember of Congress Scott DesJarlaisMember of Congress Ted DeutchMember of Congress Mario Diaz-BalartMember of Congress Mike DoyleMember of Congress Elliot L. EngelMember of Congress Blake FarentholdMember of Congress Stephen FincherMember of Congress Mike FitzpatrickMember of Congress Jeff FlakeMember of Congress Trent FranksMember of Congress Jim GerlachMember of Congress Bob GoodlatteMember of Congress Kay GrangerMember of Congress Tim GriffinMember of Congress Brett GuthrieMember of Congress Richard HannaMember of Congress Dean HellerMember of Congress Jeb HensarlingMember of Congress Tim HoldenMember of Congress Randy HultgrenMember of Congress Duncan HunterMember of Congress Steve IsraelMember of Congress Lynn JenkinsMember of Congress Bill JohnsonMember of Congress Mike KellyMember of Congress Doug LambornMember of Congress Steven C. LatouretteMember of Congress Don ManzulloMember of Congress Tom MarinoMember of Congress Jim MathesonMember of Congress Michael McCaulMember of Congress Tom McClintockMember of Congress Thaddeus McCotterMember of Congress Howard P. "Buck" McKeonMember of Congress David McKinleyMember of Congress Cathy McMorris RodgersMember of Congress Patrick MeehanMember of Congress Candice MillerMember of Congress Tim MurphyMember of Congress Randy NeugebauerMember of Congress Kristi NoemMember of Congress Richard NugentMember of Congress Devin NunesMember of Congress Alan NunneleeMember of Congress Ron PaulMember of Congress Erik PaulsenMember of Congress Ed PastorMember of Congress Tom PetriMember of Congress Todd Russell PlattsMember of Congress Bill PoseyMember of Congress Tom PriceMember of Congress Reid RibbleMember of Congress David RiveraMember of Congress Phil RoeMember of Congress Todd RokitaMember of Congress Ileana Ros-LehtinenMember of Congress Dennis RossMember of Congress Tim RyanMember of Congress Loretta SanchezMember of Congress Bobby SchillingMember of Congress Aaron SchockMember of Congress David SchweikertMember of Congress Robert C. "Bobby" ScottMember of Congress David ScottMember of Congress Jim SensenbrennerMember of Congress Pete SessionsMember of Congress John ShimkusMember of Congress Bill ShusterMember of Congress Adrian SmithMember of Congress Steve StiversMember of Congress Bennie ThompsonMember of Congress Glenn 'GT' ThompsonMember of Congress Mac ThornberryMember of Congress Patrick J. TiberiMember of Congress Paul D. TonkoMember of Congress Edolphus "Ed" TownsMember of Congress Tim WalbergMember of Congress Daniel WebsterMember of Congress Allen WestMember of Congress Lynn A. WestmorelandMember of Congress Frederica WilsonMember of Congress Joe WilsonMember of Congress C.W. Bill YoungMember of Congress Todd YoungMember of Congress CC: The Honorable Arne DuncanSecretary, U.S. Department of Education The Honorable Jacob J. LewDirector, Office of Management and Budget The Honorable Harry ReidMajority Leader, United States Senate The Honorable Mitch McConnellMinority Leader, United States Senate The Honorable Tom HarkinChairman, U.S. Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions The Honorable Mike EnziRanking Member, U.S. Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions ### GE_Letter_to_President_Obama_4.27.2011.pdf
04.25.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) expressed sadness upon learning of the death of Dennis Koehler, who died Sunday evening at the age of 69 following a battle with melanoma. Mr. Koehler was a former Commissioner in Palm Beach County and had been a lifelong champion of veterans' rights after serving two tours in Vietnam. "South Florida has lost a true hero with the passing of Dennis Koehler. Dennis served our nation courageously during the war in Vietnam. After coming home to Palm Beach County, he ran for and was elected to a seat on the Palm Beach County Commission. During those eight years, he selflessly worked to help improve the lives of Palm Beach County citizens. He was well-known for his compassion and dedication to the community. "Additionally, Dennis was a major advocate for veterans' rights. He is one of the founding members of Vietnam Veterans of America (VVA) and served on VVA's first National Board of Directors from 1983 to 1985. A veteran himself, Dennis understood the importance of taking care of those who have served our nation with dignity and respect. "As an attorney in private practice, Dennis had earned the gratitude of veterans throughout Florida by using his legal skills to fight for their rights and benefits. Two years ago, when one of my constituents lost his pension following a road accident, Dennis volunteered his time and knowledge to work with my Congressional office to have the Department of Veterans' Affairs reinstate my constituent's benefits. "Dennis' activism on this tragic issue prompted me to introduce the Veterans Pensions Protection Act to ensure that veterans, and their surviving spouses and children, will never again face the threat of losing their pensions because they received payments to cover expenses incurred after an accident. I wish to dedicate the Veterans Pensions Protection Act in honor of Dennis Koehler for his lifetime commitment and service to this nation. "Dennis was a true patriot, a community leader, and an outstanding American. I am deeply saddened by his passing, which is more than a personal loss for just myself, but also a loss to the South Florida community." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.20.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the one year anniversary of the explosion of the Deepwater Horizon oil rig, which led to the BP oil spill and an environmental catastrophe in the Gulf of Mexico: "Of the most recent disasters we have witnessed, many were thought impossible right up until the moment they happened. It never occurred to most Americans that a hurricane would overwhelm a levy and partially destroy an American city. It was likewise common knowledge that nuclear reactors in Japan could withstand the consequences of the strongest earthquake. And no one thought an explosion on an oil rig in the Gulf of Mexico would kill eleven men and pour 200 million gallons of oil into the water one year ago today. It is often what is not accounted for that transforms an incident from relatively minor to tragic. With the resumption of offshore drilling and exploration, we once again hear choruses that the BP oil spill was an anomaly and couldn't happen again. This rationale is unsatisfactory. "There is only one way to ensure that there is never another spill and that is to stop drilling offshore once and for all. We need to break our dependence on fossil fuels and develop a 21st century renewable, green energy plan. Our current energy policies must be changed. We have a responsibility to ourselves and future generations to do so." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.15.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced a resolution welcoming the new state of Southern Sudan, encouraging Sudan and Southern Sudan to resolve separation issues and the future of the Abyei region, and urging the Governments of Sudan and Southern Sudan to abide by the principles of peace, democracy, and human rights. (Please find attached a copy of the resolution). "Sudan is geographically the largest country in Africa and one of the least developed regions of the world. Sudan has been ravaged by civil war intermittently for four decades and ethnic, religious, and economic conflicts have ensued between the Muslim north and Christian-animist south. These past twenty years, an estimated two million people have died and four million people have been displaced. The Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA), signed in January 2005, put an end to the long-lasting conflict between the north and the south by establishing a semi-autonomous government for Southern Sudan for a duration of six years, after which Southern Sudan would vote for secession or unity. "From January 9 to 15, 2011, Sudan held a referendum to decide if Southern Sudan would become a sovereign and independent country, or remain part of Sudan. Approximately 3.8 million Southern Sudanese exercised their right to self determination, and on February 7, 2011, the Southern Sudan Referendum Commission (SSRC) announced the final results, with almost 99 percent voting for independence from the north. "On February 7, 2011, Sudan's President Omar Al-Bashir officially accepted the final results of the referendum, and the United States announced on the same day its intention to formally recognize Southern Sudan. On July 9, 2011, Southern Sudan will become the sovereign and independent Republic of Southern Sudan. "While I applaud these recent accomplishments, several issues pertaining to the separation of the two states remain and must be resolved prior to the conclusion of the transition period. These include and are not limited to: the legal status of populations in the north and south, wealth sharing, resource management - especially oil revenues, division of assets and debt, currency, security arrangements, and infrastructure and institutions building. The future status of the oil rich region of Abyei – full integration with Sudan or Southern Sudan, or partition of the region in two – also needs to be determined. "The United States has played a major role in bringing this devastating conflict to an end. I will continue to monitor the issue and advocate for a peaceful and nonviolent separation. Not only do the people of northern and southern Sudan deserve it, but it is in the interest of our nation and the world to establish peace and stability in the region. Therefore, I encourage other nations to welcome the new state of Southern Sudan and assist with their transition process." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Southern_Sudan_Resolution.pdf
04.15.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in response to the inclusion of $883 million in funding for the AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP) in the full-year Continuing Resolution for FY 2011, which passed on April 14, 2011, in the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate. The domestic HIV/AIDS crisis has been exacerbated by an ongoing shortfall in ADAP funding. In February, Congressman Hastings offered with the support of AIDS Healthcare Foundation (AHF) an amendment to the Continuing Resolution reallocating $42 million in administrative funds to ADAP, which passed in the House of Representatives by a voice vote. "In providing $883 million for our nation's ADAP in the full-year Continuing Resolution, Congress has renewed its commitment to combating HIV/AIDS. This funding, which represents an increase of $48 million over last year, will bring much-needed relief to low-income individuals living with HIV/AIDS who are waiting for antiretroviral treatment and other related services. "I would like to take this opportunity to thank my dear friends and colleagues from Florida, Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Congressman Ted Deutch, and Congresswoman Frederica Wilson, for their continued support of ADAP and other HIV/AIDS programs. In addition, I would also like to thank Congressman Denny Rehberg, Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor and Health and Human Services, for his support of this effort. Finally, I commend my friends at AIDS Healthcare Foundation for their leadership and all that they continue to do each and every single day on behalf of people living with HIV/AIDS. "Ensuring access to treatment remains key to combating HIV/AIDS. By coming together in support of ADAP, we help ensure that states like Florida can provide low-income individuals living with HIV/AIDS access to the treatment they need to stay alive, stem the tide of new infections, and invest in our nation's long-term fiscal health. "However, our work is far from over. According to the National Alliance of State and Territorial AIDS Directors (NASTAD), 7,885 individuals currently remain on ADAP 'waiting lists' in 11 states and thousands more continue to be denied program eligibility due to service cuts. Alarmingly, my home state of Florida accounts for the majority of these cases with 3,807 individuals on the list. "We can and must do better for individuals living with HIV/AIDS in this country. It is unconscionable that, in 2011, a lack of program funding remains a significant barrier to treatment. If we can create a no-fly zone in Libya, we should be able to make a 'no-AIDS zone' here in the United States." Congressman Hastings has been a longtime advocate for the HIV/AIDS community and continues to support robust funding for the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program, including the HIV/AIDS Treatment Modernization Act, the Minority HIV/AIDS Initiative, the National AIDS Strategy, and state ADAPs. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.11.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the 43rd anniversary of the enactment of the Fair Housing Act of 1968: "Passed just days after the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. assassination and considered a seminal act in achieving racial equality in a deeply divided country, the Fair Housing Act prohibits housing discrimination based on race, national origin, religion, color, sex, familial status, and disability. The Fair Housing Act reinforced one of the most fundamental elements of the 'American Dream' for all citizens—to own a home and live in a neighborhood of his or her choice, free of discrimination. This landmark piece of legislation is the broadest, yet sadly, one of the least enforced of our nation's civil rights laws. Today, more than 3.7 million fair housing violations occur each year and an approximate 30,000 are filed through nonprofit fair-housing agencies, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, the U.S. Department of Justice, and state and local agencies. "In Congress, I have worked tirelessly to put an end to housing inequality and discriminatory practices. Over the past decade, however, we have seen the inequality gap widen with the recent collapse in the housing market. "Hoping to dispel the myths on housing, I recently hosted a congressional briefing for Members of Congress and their staff to learn more about the prevalence of housing discrimination and the future of fair housing in America. A panel of distinguished speakers spoke to the realities in housing inequity and recommended solutions to a very real problem in America. "Housing discrimination is absolutely unacceptable in today's society. I will continue fighting against inequality in all forms and urge that the nation reject the status quo in favor of a more equitable future." In the 111th Congress, Hastings co-sponsored H.R. 6500, the Housing Opportunities Made Equal (HOME) Act, introduced by Rep. Jerrold Nadler (D-NY). This bill hoped to amend the Fair Housing Act to prohibit discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, gender identity, source of income, or marital status. He is currently an original co-sponsor of H.R. 284, the Veterans, Women, Families with Children, and Persons With Disabilities Housing Fairness Act of 2011, introduced by Rep. Al Green (D-TX). This bill instructs the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to conduct a nationwide testing program to find the sources and solutions to housing discrimination. It also creates stricter guidelines for funding and matching grant programs to help assist in the fight against fair housing violations. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.07.2011	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) released the following statement on a potential shutdown of the federal government, which will occur if the current appropriations expire at midnight on April 8, 2011: "A government shutdown would be detrimental to America's interests and security. All Americans rely on the federal government and its employees to care for our nation's veterans and administer important services such as those offered by the Social Security Administration, Department of Education, and Department of Health and Human Services. "Federal workers are consumers just like every other American and taking money out of their pockets harms consumer demand at a time when our economy needs it most. This shutdown will make it difficult for these dedicated workers to pay their everyday expenses. A shutdown poses a direct threat to America's economic recovery. "It is completely mind-boggling that Republicans are willing to put the well-being of the nation at risk rather than put forward a clean Continuing Resolution with no ideological riders in order to keep the federal government operating while negotiations on long-term spending continue. This perpetuates their 'my-way-or-the-highway' attitude and is a reckless way to operate. This is not the time to force controversial policies into an emergency spending measure. "There are people struggling to make it in this difficult economy. They are trying to keep their jobs, keep their homes, keep their families together, and keep their children in school. It is time to put partisan politics aside, get a deal on the table that will not shutdown the government, and do what is right for this nation." If a federal government shutdown occurs, the government would stop all non-essential services. Essential services, including the armed forces, air traffic controllers, police, fire departments, and workers, who provide medical care, will continue to operate. The Postal Service and Federal Reserve will also continue to operate since they are self-funded. Expect for national parks, museums, and monuments across the nation to be closed. There may be a delay in the processing of tax refunds, passports, and bankruptcy cases. Social Security checks should continue to be mailed but new claims may not be processed during a shutdown. VA hospitals will remain open but benefits may be reduced. Unemployment programs may be affected depending on the length of a shutdown, if the federal funds for these programs run out. Most non-essential government employees will be furloughed and will not receive pay. Federal contractors will not be paid and will not be eligible for back pay, and most agencies will cease processing grant applications and other contracting services. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.06.2011	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following welcoming remarks in regards to Bishop Henry Fernandez, who served as the Guest Chaplain for the U.S. House of Representatives. Bishop Fernandez delivered the opening prayer at the beginning of today's House proceedings. "An anointed speaker, accomplished author and entrepreneur, Henry B. Fernandez answered the call of God on his life in 1985 and later became an ordained minister in 1988. "In July 1991, Bishop Fernandez began to demonstrate his faith in God and a commitment to 'walk by faith' in every area of life when, along with his wife, Carol, he founded the Plantation Worship Center in the cafeteria of a local elementary school in South Florida with only 11 members. Now known as The Faith Center Ministries, the church makes its home in the former Sunrise Theater where its more than 8,000 members embrace a mission of 'Reaching the World for Jesus.' "Gifted with a strong ability to deliver the Word with clarity and in a practical manner, Bishop Fernandez flows in a strong prophetic anointing as he teaches. A visionary who believes it is God's will for everyone to prosper and be in health, he is committed to helping educate people to what God's Word has to say about living and walking in victory. "Part of that commitment is demonstrated through his founding of The University of Fort Lauderdale, a non-denominational Christian institute fully approved by the Commission of Independent Education. The university, which was established to advance Christian education and promote leadership in both secular and non-secular areas, offers degrees on the associate, bachelor, master, and doctoral levels. "The Henry B. Fernandez Institute for Learning was also established by Bishop Fernandez to offer biblical courses to ministers and lay leaders who may not be seeking a degree, but desire a solid foundation in the understanding of God's word for evangelizing, mentoring, and inspirational leadership. "Bishop Fernandez is an amazing inspirational speaker, author, community servant, and businessman, whose work continues to manifest the freedom of worship enjoyed across our nation. Through his work, he has encouraged us all to exercise faith and live victoriously. "It was with great honor that I welcomed, my friend and inspirational leader, Bishop Henry Fernandez as our Guest Chaplain for today's opening prayer." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.06.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz's appointment as Chair of the Democratic National Committee (DNC): "Debbie is a great friend and leader in Congress. President Obama couldn't have chosen a better person to serve as Chair of the DNC. This appointment is not only good for our nation, but also for the State of Florida. As a fellow Floridian, I have had the honor and privilege of working closely with Debbie for many years and have seen her passion and dedication in action. She brings much-needed leadership, expertise, and experience to the Democratic Party at this critical time in our nation's history. As we head towards 2012, I am comforted to know that Debbie will be our leader. "Again, I want to congratulate my dear friend and colleague on this appointment. I look forward to continuing to work with Debbie both in the House of Representatives and in her new role as Chair of the DNC." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.05.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in recognition of National Minority Health Month, which seeks to raise awareness of, and address, the various issues that contribute to disparate health outcomes for Black and African Americans, Hispanic and Latino Americans, Asian Americans, American Indians and Alaska Natives, Native Hawaiians, and other Pacific Islanders. The Department of Health and Human Services' (HHS) Office of Minority Health (OMH) was created in 1986 in an effort to improve the health of racial and ethnic minority populations in the United States through the development of health policies and programs that help eliminate health disparities. For more information, please visit http://minorityhealth.hhs.gov/. "It is clear that we must do more to improve the health of our nation's minority communities. Due to various factors, including a lack of access to affordable, quality health care, African Americans, Hispanics, Asians, and American Indians experience higher rates of illness and death from certain health conditions compared to their white counterparts. In particular, these include disparate rates of heart disease, stroke, specific cancers, diabetes, HIV/AIDS, asthma, hepatitis B, and being overweight or obese. "In fact, African Americans have the highest prevalence of hypertension in the world and are the most likely to develop diabetes and to suffer from related complications. Health among Hispanics also varies significantly. Puerto Ricans, for example, suffer disproportionately from asthma, HIV/AIDS, and infant mortality while Mexican Americans suffer disproportionately from diabetes. "Furthermore, Asian Americans experience disproportionate rates of certain cancers, tuberculosis, and Hepatitis B, while American Indians and Alaska Natives are at particular risk for mental health conditions like suicide, obesity, substance abuse, sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), teenage pregnancy, liver disease, and hepatitis. "According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, in 2009, 17 percent of the white population under 65 years of age was uninsured compared to 19 percent of African Americans, 33 percent of Hispanics, and 32.5 percent of American Indians. "As we move forward with comprehensive health care reform, we must be mindful of the unique challenges we face, including mistrust, language and cultural barriers, and the lack of health insurance coverage, in improving the health of our communities. Culturally competent health care and education remain key to addressing these health disparities. I support the goals and ideals of National Minority Health Month and will continue working with my colleagues in Congress to improve the health of our nation as a whole." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
04.01.2011	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following remarks regarding the Republican sponsored H.R. 1255, the Government Shutdown Prevention Act of 2011. This legislation would enact H.R. 1, the Full-Year Continuing Appropriations Act, 2011, into law if the Senate has not passed an appropriations measure by April 6, 2011. H.R. 1 was passed by the House of Representatives on February 19, 2011 by a vote of 235-189, but has not been passed by the Senate. A bill must pass both bodies in the same form and be signed by the President in order for it to become law. H.R. 1255 passed the House by a vote of 221 to 202 with one voting present. "This is not only a gimmick and a waste of time but it is flat-out unconstitutional," said Hastings. "We all learned in grade school how a bill becomes a law, and to take from School House Rock's 'I'm Just a Bill': 'You sure gotta climb a lot of steps to get to this Capitol Building here in Washington.' "But House Republicans are trying to circumvent these steps, and the Constitution, with this legislation," further noted Hastings. "It is insulting to the American people. "Having this matter come to the House floor on this date gives new meaning to April Fools' Day. The American people, however, are no fools and when push comes to shove, this will be 'just a bill.'" Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.31.2011	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) was honored to receive a Legislative Leader Award by the Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) and Humane Society Legislative Fund (HSLF) for his leadership on animal welfare legislation in 2010. "I am humbled to receive this recognition by the Humane Society, an organization that I share a commitment with of protecting the well-being of animals and giving a voice to the voiceless," said Hastings. In 2010, Hastings introduced several pieces of legislation in support of animal conservation, including legislation to develop affordable and well qualified opportunities for students to become wildlife and zoo veterinarians in an effort to promote the care and conservation of wild animals; a resolution urging the Government of Canada to end their inhumane seal hunt; and a resolution urging the Conference on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES) to not weaken the protections for many endangered species around the world. Hastings has already reintroduced the CITES resolution in the 112th Congress. In addition to legislation Hastings introduced, he has also supported many other important pieces of pro-animal legislation. This continued support and leadership led to his receiving the Legislative Leader Award in addition to scoring 100 percent on the Humane Society's Humane Scorecard earlier this year. "Representative Hastings has been an important voice for enhancing animal protection in federal law," said Wayne Pacelee, president and CEO of The HSUS. "We're grateful to him for taking the lead and drawing attention to these vital concerns. We thank Representative Hastings for his compassion and determination to ensure that our animal welfare laws reflect our basic values and attitudes shared by people across the country." As a leader in animal protection, last year Hastings also was the recipient of the Florida Panther Protection Award from the Conservancy of Southwest Florida for his efforts to save the Florida Panther from extinction. "I am a staunch believer in the need to protect animals from cruelty in all of its forms and I am also troubled that species conservation continues to be neglected," said Hastings. "With my home state of Florida having the third highest number of endangered species in the nation, I am acutely aware of the need to protect wildlife. "I am proud to have continually supported pro-animal and pro-conservation initiatives throughout my tenure in Congress and I remain committed to these noble causes." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.29.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in response to President Obama's address to the nation Monday evening regarding the U.S. military involvement in Libya: "There is no question that there is an ongoing humanitarian crisis in Libya, driven by Muammar Gaddafi's disregard of basic human rights and continued use of force against his own people. "As a nation still paying a hefty price for our involvement in Iraq and Afghanistan, I had hoped the President would have been more cautious and conferred with Congress before getting the U.S. military involved in a third conflict. One of my biggest concerns about the U.S. involvement in Iraq and Afghanistan was the lack of a coherent military strategy from the outset. Unfortunately, I see this same issue arising in Libya where we seem to be focusing on the process of intervention rather than the overall strategy. "A clear strategy, with stated goals, objectives, and an exit plan, is necessary before sending our young men and women into harm's way. As of now, I do not see a clear strategy in place and this is very troubling. Initially, the President had stated his goal as a regime change in Libya. Now, the President is justifying U.S. involvement as a sense of moral duty to intervene before further massacres occur. But if we are defining ourselves in this way, there are many other areas of the region and the world which are experiencing similar turmoil. In that case, I would have to ask: Why Libya? Why not Yemen, Sudan, Bahrain, or Syria? And if those conflicts also demand our intervention, where do we draw the line for U.S. involvement?" Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.23.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the one-year anniversary of the enactment of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act: "One year ago today, the United States enacted the Affordable Care Act as a promise to the American people that affordable, quality health care would no longer be a privilege for some, but a guaranteed right for all. Millions of Americans have already benefited from the Affordable Care Act, which improves health security, increases insurer accountability, lowers health care costs, guarantees more health care choices, and enhances quality of care. In fact, 32 million more Americans now have health care coverage, and middle class, working poor, and other vulnerable Americans are enjoying new protections and benefits. "In my home state of Florida alone, the positive impact of the Affordable Care Act has been tremendous. Floridians have more freedom and control over their health care choices because of the Affordable Care Act. In particular, the health care reform law has provided: • 3.3 million Medicare beneficiaries in Florida with free preventive services; • 255,996 residents who have hit the "donut hole" with $250 tax-free rebates, and a 50 percent discount when buying brand-name prescription drugs; • Up to 289,995 small businesses with tax credits for purchasing coverage for employees; • $110.4 million in health care funding and grants to the State; • Protection for 960,000 kids with pre-existing conditions; • Protection from lifetime limits on health benefits for 9.3 million Florida residents with private plans; • Protection for 1.2 million Florida residents who buy health insurance on the individual market from coverage denial when they get sick; • Greater value for their premium dollars for 9.3 million Florida residents with private plans; • Protection from unreasonable premium increases; • 280,000 Floridians with the ability to retire before they became eligible for Medicare; • Access to more funding for 360 community health centers throughout Florida. "Unfortunately, my Republican colleagues continue their efforts to dismantle the Affordable Care Act at the expense of the middle class. While I recognize the need to address the so-called 1099 reporting provision, increasing taxes on low-income individuals and families is not the answer. Furthermore, I was especially concerned by Florida Governor Rick Scott's decision in February to return $1 million in federal funds awarded to assist the state with implementing the Affordable Care Act. His continued obstinacy regarding health care reform is not only irresponsible, but detrimental to the well-being of countless Floridians. "As we reflect on the state of health care reform in our nation, we must also not forget the true task that remains before us – creating more jobs. The Affordable Care Act actually creates between 250,000 and 400,000 jobs each year while also cutting the deficit by billions of dollars. Simply put, investing in our nation's health care system is good medicine for our long-term fiscal health. "Without a doubt, the Affordable Care Act represents one of the most significant pieces of legislation in our nation's history. However, comprehensive health care reform does not end here. We can and must do more to move our country forward, not take it back. I remain committed to working with my colleagues in Congress to do just that." As a Member of Congress since 1992, Hastings has always advocated for smart, comprehensive, and sustainable health care reform. In the 111th Congress alone, he sponsored and co-sponsored over 200 health-related bills in order to increase health care affordability, access, and quality, and has led and supported efforts to facilitate better health care at home in his Congressional district and for the nation as a whole. Hastings also introduced legislation to bring fair competition to the drug market and increase patient access to affordable generic medications; increase access to voluntary screening for HIV/AIDS and STIs as well as other preventive services, especially for groups that have been historically underrepresented in public health interventions; and establish a commission designed to construct a comprehensive national strategy on how to increase the affordability, accessibility, and effectiveness of long-term care and community services. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.18.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) reflected on the 8th anniversary of the Iraq War: "March 19 marks a very sad date in American history. Eight years ago, the Bush administration began an invasion of Iraq after lying about the existence of weapons of mass destruction, misleading the international community and the American people in order to justify the war on false pretenses. Without pursuing all non-military options, without a mandate from the United Nations Security Council, and without an iota of a plan for the day-after, the Bush administration committed the United States to an undertaking which has persisted now for eight years, costing tens of thousands of Iraqi and American lives and hundreds of billions of dollars. "Many of us were skeptical about the rationale for military action and tried to convince the U.S. government not to use force in this conflict without establishing certain conditions. In the fall of 2002, I offered an alternative war resolution which required President Bush to provide Congress with a comprehensive plan for the long-term cultural, economic, and political stabilization in a free Iraq as well as a mandate from the UN before committing U.S. Armed Forces to war. Unfortunately, there was no majority in Congress to pass that bill. Instead the Bush administration rushed our nation into war not considering that military action is rarely, if ever, in a nation's best interest. "As does every American citizen I, too, stand by our troops - especially when they are in harm's way. But since March 2003, over 4,700 U.S. and coalition soldiers, marines, airmen, sailors, and civilian employees have died in Iraq, and more than 32,000 have been wounded. Additionally, 100,000 Iraqi civilians may have died because of armed violence since the start of the Iraq war. Congress has committed more than $750 billion to the war thus far; money that could have been used for a better purpose towards thwarting terrorism and promoting peace and democracy than by invading a country that had nothing to do with the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001. "Official combat operations may have ended, but the violence continues, our troops remain in harm's way, and we are still committing billions of dollars that could instead be spent on desperately-needed efforts here at home. I fully support President Obama's goal to bring all of the troops back by the end of 2011. Our nation's servicemen and women have made enormous sacrifices, carrying out their missions with honor and dedication. It is time for them to come home." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.09.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) was joined by Representatives Howard L. Berman of California, John Lewis of Georgia, and Henry A. Waxman of California in hosting a breakfast for Black and Jewish Members of Congress to begin a dialogue on the history of Black and Jewish relations and develop plans for a better future. The Members were also joined by Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer, Israeli Ambassador to the United States Michael Oren, Rabbi Jack Moline of the Agudas Achim Congregation, Reverend Wallace Charles Smith of Shiloh Baptist Church, and Operation Understanding DC student leaders Chinyere Ukaegbu and Sam Edelman. “History has not been gentle to either of our groups,” said Congressman Hastings. “We shared the burden of hatred and yet we overcame.” "The African-American and Jewish communities were proud partners during the civil rights movement and have continued to work together to advance the cause of social justice,” said Democratic Whip Hoyer in his welcoming remarks. “I'm glad that black and Jewish Members of Congress could join to reflect on this shared history and help renew those ties of cooperation." Following Congressman Hastings’ and Democratic Whip Hoyer’s opening remarks, blessings were offered by Rabbi Moline and Reverend Smith, who also shared brief words about their work in engaging and uniting the Black and Jewish communities. Reverend Smith remarked that it was “a blessing to see people of like minds around a table.” Rabbi Moline spoke on the subject of ‘Who’s that man?’ “There is no person, no act, no kindness, no outreach that is superfluous, that is incidental,” said Rabbi Moline. “Each human being, each person in this room and beyond this room determines the course of history.” “The roots of the African-American and Jewish alliance are, like the River Jordan of song, wide and deep. They go back to the decades of partnership between African-American and Jewish activists in the struggle for equal rights in this country—a struggle in which Blacks and Jews gave their lives,” said Ambassador Oren. “Israel, for its part, the Jewish state, is also a multi-racial, multi-ethnic state dedicated to the ideals embodied by Edward Wilmot Blyden, Frederick Douglas, and Dr. Martin Luther King.” “The history that binds African-American Members of Congress with Jewish Members of Congress runs deep,” said Rep. Berman. “Our struggles and triumphs serve as reminders that we must work together to ensure oppression and discrimination against any group will not be tolerated.” “Black and Jewish people have reached beyond their differences in culture and religion to form important alliances which helped to break down the walls of hate in Germany and in America,” said Rep. John Lewis. “That legacy has left this world a little more free from oppression and violence and just a little more enlightened and evolved.” “The historic partnership between African-Americans and Jewish-Americans is alive and well today in Congress and communities around the country,” Rep. Waxman added. “Today’s discussion was not only one of remembrance and tribute, but also of new opportunities to face challenges together.” Student leaders Chinyere Ukaegbu and Sam Edelman gave remarks regarding their experiences as graduates of the six month Operation Understanding DC program. Operation Understanding DC’s mission is to build a generation of African-American and Jewish community leaders who promote respect, understanding, and cooperation while working to eradicate racism, anti-Semitism, and all forms of discrimination. “The history of oppression runs deep within our pasts,” said Congressman Hastings. “By coming together as we have this morning to share our experiences and ideas, and with the support of organizations such as Operation Understanding DC, we can work together for the betterment of all. “As we begin our journey into the 21st century, we remember the troubled times of the past and the accomplishments that have brought us to where we are today,” further noted Hastings. “It is our job to stand guard and make sure the forces of oppression and discrimination never again take root in this country or around the world.” Members In Attendance (32): Gary L. Ackerman (NY), Karen Bass (CA), Shelley Berkley (NV), Howard L. Berman (CA), Donna M. Christensen (VI), David N. Cicilline (RI), Hansen Clarke (MI), Steve Cohen (TN), Susan A. Davis (CA), Theodore E. Deutch (FL), Eliot L. Engel (NY), Marcia L. Fudge (OH), Alcee L. Hastings (FL), Steny H. Hoyer (MD), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX), Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX), Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. (GA), Barbara Lee (CA), Sander M. Levin (MI), John Lewis (GA), Nita Lowey (NY), Gregory W. Meeks (NY), Jerrold Nadler (NY), Jared Polis (CO), Charles B. Rangel (NY), Cedric L. Richmond (LA), Steven R. Rothman (NJ), Janice D. Schakowsky (IL), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL), Melvin L. Watt (NC), Henry A. Waxman (CA), and John A. Yarmuth (KY). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Click Here for Pictures from the Black and Jewish Members of Congress Breakfast
03.03.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced the Veterans Pensions Protection Act, legislation that will protect veterans from losing their pension benefits because they received payments to cover expenses incurred after an accident, theft, loss or casualty loss. (Please find attached a copy of the legislation) “My legislation will fix a loophole under existing law to ensure that pensions are issued to veterans who legitimately meet the income criteria and rely on such benefits to survive,” said Hastings. Currently, if a veteran is seriously injured in an accident or the victim of a theft and receives insurance compensation to cover his or her medical expenses or the cost of replacement of the stolen items, he or she will likely lose their pension. “Such a tragedy happened to one of my constituents, a disabled veteran with muscular dystrophy who was hit by a truck when crossing the street in his wheelchair. His pension was abruptly cut off after he received an insurance settlement payment to cover medical expenses for himself and his service dog, and material expenses to replace his wheelchair. As a result, he fell below the poverty line, could not cover his daily expenses and mortgage payments, and almost lost his home,” Hastings further noted. The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) considers a variety of sources of revenue to determine a veteran’s annual income. If such income exceeds the income limit set by the VA, the veteran does not qualify for a pension or loses his or her benefits. The VA considers any reimbursement that compensates a veteran for their expenses due to accidents, theft or loss as income. The Veterans Pensions Protection Act will exempt these reimbursements from being included into the determination of a veteran’s income. “Current law effectively punishes veterans when they suffer from such an accident, theft or loss. There is clearly something wrong with a law that cancels veterans’ pensions following the award of an insurance payment, which was only intended to cover exceptional medical expenses. My legislation will ensure the continuity of our veterans’ pensions and that no veteran will have their benefits unfairly depreciated or cancelled. At a time when our nation’s servicemen and women are fighting two wars abroad, we have a duty to our past, present, and future veterans to provide them with the very best services and benefits. We owe our veterans an enormous debt, and cannot thank them enough for their service.” Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors of the legislation include: Representatives Corrine Brown, Ted Deutch, Shelley Berkley, Bob Filner, Raul Grijalva, Vern Buchanan, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Al Green, Elijah Cummings, Barney Frank, James McGovern, Judy Chu, Dana Rohrabacher, Laura Richardson, Steve Israel, Larry Kissel, John Mica, Betty Sutton, Ben Ray Luján, Silvestre Reyes, David McKinley, Grace Napolitano, Steve Cohen, David Cicilline, Mike Michaud, Brad Sherman, Kathy Castor, Joe Courtney, Sheila Jackson Lee, Jeff Fortenberry, Howard Berman, Tim Bishop, Karen Bass, and Tim Walz. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Hastings_Veterans_Pensions_Protection_Act_112th.pdf
03.02.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement regarding National Read Across America Day: “Today I join teachers, parents, and children across the country in celebrating National Read Across America Day – a day which seeks to raise awareness of the importance of reading and to provide the resources and motivation needed for teachers, parents, and the community to encourage children to read. “Today also marks the birthday of Dr. Seuss, who brought excitement to reading for children through his creative characters and imaginative books. His birthday was amply chosen to be the date for National Read Across America Day and today we honor his legacy by continuing his efforts of making reading exciting for children to better prepare them to be successful students. “I am a firm believer in the important role early childhood literacy plays in a child’s development and educational success and have long supported programs such as the Reach Out and Read program in West Palm Beach, Florida. This invaluable program was sponsored by the Literacy Coalition of Palm Beach County which has been active in the community for over 20 years promoting literacy, teaching the importance of reading aloud to children, and providing resources to families. “I believe that a quality education begins early in life and that efforts to increase childhood literacy are vital. I will continue to support initiatives such as Reach Out and Read and National Read Across America Day to ensure that all children are afforded every chance to reach their full potential.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ###
03.01.2011	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) spoke at the Winter Meeting of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe’s (OSCE) Parliamentary Assembly in Vienna, Austria on February 25, calling for the OSCE to proactively reach out to help Mediterranean counties in transition to democracy. Congressman Hastings is the Ranking Democratic Member of the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe, commonly referred to as the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and serves as the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly Special Representative on Mediterranean Affairs. (Please find attached a copy of Congressman Hastings’ complete statement). The meeting of more than 230 parliamentarians participating from 53 countries debated the situation in the Mediterranean, where OSCE Partners for Co-operation Egypt and Tunisia both have seen their governments fall in recent weeks. “This debate is inspired by the courage and dignity of the people in Tunisia, Egypt, and throughout the Mediterranean region,” Hastings said. “Others in the region are motivated as well and are making their voices heard – from Tehran to Tangier to Tripoli. “These are challenging and uncertain times but also hopeful in their opportunity. I believe it is incumbent upon all of us, the OSCE and the Parliamentary Assembly, to reach out to our Mediterranean Partners and offer assistance, not only in election organization and monitoring, but regarding democratic institution building as well.” With representatives from Algeria, Egypt, Israel Jordan, Morocco and Tunisia in attendance, Hastings called for swift action to help countries looking to transition to democracy. He said parliamentarians should assist in building democratic institutions in the region through more than election observation and encouraged development of bilateral relationships to ensure that revolutions on the streets lead to lasting stability in governments. “We face dire circumstances of regional food insecurity and energy unreliability if we do not act decisively,” Hastings further noted. “We should understand the sense of urgency on the part of change agents to move forward as quickly as possible. “Clearly, one cannot have a democracy without free and fair elections. But an election does not by itself a democracy make. What is needed is the rule of law, an independent judiciary, free media, respect for the rights of minorities, and conditions that encourage economic investment. “I recommend that participating States and the Lithuanian Chairmanship should be proactive in drafting proposals for support before being asked. I intend to work hard both in the United States Congress and as President Efthymiou’s Special Representative on Mediterranean Affairs to provide any assistance needed by our colleagues in Egypt and Tunisia – and all of our Mediterranean partners – as they seek to meet the aspirations of their people.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Senior Member of the House Rules Committee, Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Democratic Chairman of the Florida Delegation. ### Hastings_-_OSCE_PA_Mediterranean_Debate_25Feb2011.pdf
02.24.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following remarks on the passing of Lena Rahming-Williams, who died on February 16 at the age of 66. Rahming-Williams was a pillar in Palm Beach County, best known for her dedication to children’s causes. “I wish to express my deepest sympathies on the loss of this wonderful lady,” said Hastings. “‘Ms. Lena,’ as she was called with both affection and respect, began Palm Beach County’s Head Start program and served its children and their families for nearly 50 years. She truly gave a head start to five generations of children of all ethnicities and cultures.” Mrs. Rahming-Williams was the chairperson of the City of Boynton Beach’s Black Awareness program for 25 years and for 30 years, she chaired the Caring Center’s Food Pantry. A determined community activist, Lena was considered the people’s ambassador in Boynton Beach. Recognizing her fine character, many organizations and government agencies honored her with awards. The Head Start program, of which she was so proud, gave her its highest award, The Wind Beneath My Wings. She was also named Palm Beach County’s Employee of the Year. One award included a $10,000 prize, which she donated to Head Start. During the presidential election of 2008, Lena Rahming-Williams hosted an appearance by former President Bill Clinton. She was very proud of her role in the election of President Barack Obama. Although her civic activism and political work were important to her, her greatest love was Head Start. She shared the belief of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., who said, “I have the audacity to believe that everyone should have three hot meals a day for their bodies; education and culture for their souls; and freedom, equality and integrity for their spirits.” While proud to be an American citizen, Lena Rahming-Williams never forgot her native Bahamas. She founded the National Association of the Bahamas in Florida and hosted the annual celebration of Bahamas Independence for Bahamians living in Florida. Upon the death of Sir Lynden Pindling, the Bahamas’ first Prime Minister, she helped organize a wonderful memorial service for all Bahamian natives living in the state of Florida. In 1999, Lena and her friend and fellow community activist, Maude Ford Lee, established the Lena Rahming/Maude Ford Lee Scholarship Fund for High school students who are graduates of the Head Start program. “Ms. Lena was a person who walked comfortably among people of all nationalities, cultures and classes,” further noted Hastings. “She was deeply loved and widely respected as someone who exemplified everything that is good about her state, her country and the world. “She has left a mark of greatness and her star will shine brightly forever.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and senior member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
02.18.2011	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the passage by the House of Representative of a bipartisan amendment to H.R. 1, the Fiscal Year 2011 Continuing Resolution, to block funding for the implementation of the Department of Education’s proposed Gainful Employment regulation. Hastings was joined by House Education and the Workforce Committee Chairman John Kline (R-MN), Representative Virginia Foxx (R-NC), Representative Carolyn McCarthy (D-NY) and Representative Donald Payne (D-NJ) in introducing the amendment that passed the House by a vote of 289 to 136. (Please find attached a copy of the amendment). “This proposed rule is so broad and its implementation so burdensome that many schools will undoubtedly close and countless students will lose access to higher education,” said Hastings. “While this may please some of my friends in Congress as well as the Department of Education, what will happen to the single mother looking to change careers who needs the flexibility of a private sector college? What about the first-generation college student who needs the added support and job placement services many of these institutions provide? And how can we be expected to reach President Obama’s goal of the highest percentage of college graduates by 2020 if we’re shutting down access to effective educational programs? "The Department’s suggested approach will disproportionately harm nontraditional and lower-income students who have no choice but to rely on student loans to pursue a postsecondary education and need the flexibility career colleges provide. Too many students will be impacted, and too many questions are still unanswered to justify the Department’s insistence on pursuing the draft regulations. The passage of this amendment will prohibit the Department from moving forward with this harmful and misguided rule. “We all agree that both tax payer funds and students’ best interests should be protected in higher education, but rushing into a blanket approach that will limit student access to higher education and fails to adequately address problem institutions, is not the way to go. “It is my hope that with the passage of this amendment, the Department will finally be compelled to work with Congress to develop meaningful reforms that truly have students’ best interests at heart.” Background on Gainful Employment Regulation Under the Higher Education Act, proprietary colleges and universities and career training programs are required to offer programs that lead to gainful employment in a legally recognized occupation in order to participate in the federal student aid programs. The term “Gainful Employment,” has been in the statute for over 40 years, and during the most recent reauthorization of the Higher Education Act, there was no debate or discussion on a need to further define the term. The U.S. Department of Education is now promulgating a regulation that defines “gainful employment” through a complex matrix that examines the student loan debt-to-income ratio of graduates to the student loan repayment rate of gradates in the programs rather than using actual measures of educational quality such as job placement and graduation rates. The proposed regulation would require the U.S. Department of Education to approve every new program created at a proprietary institution prior to the start of the program. The amendment would prohibit the use of funds for the implementation of the draft regulation the Department issued on October 29, 2010 and would prohibit the Department from promulgating or enforcing new regulations regarding gainful employment. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings represents Florida’s 23rd Congressional district. He is a senior member of the House Rules Committee and U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### GE_Amendment_to_CR.pdf
02.16.2011	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) scored 100 percent on the Humane Society’s Humane Scorecard, while Floridian Members scored an average of 55 percent. Hastings is one of the few Members of Congress with such pro-animals positions. Every year, the Humane Society rates U.S. Senators and Representatives on their leadership and advocacy for animal rights. The scorecard tracks key votes, sponsorship, and co-sponsorship of important pro-animal legislation. In the 111th Congress, Hastings was a cosponsor of the Animal Crush Video Prohibition Act, the Puppy Uniform Protection and Safety Act, the Great Ape Protection Act, and the Preservation of Antibiotics for Medical Treatment Act. In addition, Hastings voted for several bills that funded programs providing service dogs to veterans, as well as conservation and recovery programs for imperiled crane populations, rare felids and canids, marine turtles, and sea otters. Lastly, he supported the prohibition on the commercial sale and slaughter of wild free-roaming horses and burros, the prohibition on interstate and foreign commerce of nonhuman primates for the pet trade, as well as the federal ban on carrying loaded firearms in national parks. “Throughout my career, I have consistently supported legislation that condemns animal cruelty in all of its forms, protects our nation’s wildlife and encourages environmental conservation. It is unacceptable that in today’s society animals continue to be mistreated, and species conservation neglected. The U.S. government should avoid putting the well-being of animals at risk whenever possible and look into better ways to protect those that cannot protect themselves. I will never waiver in my strong support and advocacy of animal rights,” said Hastings. Hastings is also a leader in introducing legislation promoting species conservation. In April 2009, he introduced H.Res. 1314, a resolution urging the government of Canada to end the commercial seal hunt. Last month, he introduced H.Res. 47, a resolution urging the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora to adopt stronger protections for endangered species worldwide. Last year, he also received the Florida Panther Protection Award from the Conservancy of Southwest Florida for his efforts to save the Florida Panther from extinction. Such leadership actions were all factors in Hastings earning a perfect 100 percent on the Humane Scorecard. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and senior member of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
02.07.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) recognized the importance of National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day in the ongoing effort to address the HIV/AIDS crisis. This year marks the 11th anniversary of National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day, which aims to raise awareness of HIV/AIDS, increase involvement, encourage regular testing for HIV/AIDS, and ensure access to treatment for individuals living with HIV/AIDS within Black communities. “National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day reminds us of the devastating impact HIV/AIDS continues to have on our families, friends, and communities. While African Americans represent approximately 12 percent of the United States population, they account for almost half (46 percent) of all people living with HIV/AIDS nationwide as well as almost half (45 percent) of new infections each year. It is clear that African Americans continue to face the most severe HIV/AIDS burden and that we must do better. “It is up to us to take responsibility for our health. Screening remains a key prevention tool and the first step to getting treatment. In fact, one in five individuals is unaware that they have HIV/AIDS, which means that they are more likely to spread it to others. In addition, due to various other factors including stigma, poverty, and limited access to health care, African Americans not only suffer from disproportionately high rates of HIV/AIDS, but other sexually transmitted infections (STIs) as well. “HIV/AIDS is a serious community health challenge that requires a community solution in every sense. I commend the Strategic Leadership Council, as well as the Alliances for Quality Education, Inc., Healthy Black Communities, Inc., My Brother's Keeper, Inc., Multi-Cultural Addictions Network, Inc., National Black Leadership Commission on AIDS, and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for all that they have done, and continue to do, to spread the message of National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day all year round and help stem the tide of HIV/AIDS in this country. “I, too, remain committed to doing my part to help make sure that individuals have access to the testing and treatment services that they need and deserve. That is why I plan to soon reintroduce my legislation, the Increasing Access to Voluntary Screening for HIV/AIDS and STIs Act, which establishes a broad policy for voluntary HIV/AIDS and STI screening that focuses on historically underrepresented communities.” Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day was founded in 1999 by Concerned Black Men, Inc. of Philadelphia, Health Watch Information and Promotion Services, Inc., Jackson State University’s Mississippi Urban Research Center, the National Black Alcoholism and Addictions Council, and National Black Leadership Commission on AIDS together with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). For more information on National Black HIV/Awareness Day, please visit www.blackaidsday.org. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings represents Florida’s 23rd Congressional district. He is a senior member of the House Rules Committee and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
02.03.2011	Earlier this week Florida insurance commissioner Kevin McCarty announced that he was returning $1 million in federal grant money awarded to the state to help hold insurance companies accountable and make sure that the health care plans offered under health care reform (the Affordable Care Act) would be affordable for Florida families. Governor Scott also stated that he was not going to spend his time implementing the new law and hoped that it would be repealed or ruled unconstitutional. This begs the question, if Florida’s insurance commissioner and Governor are returning $1 million meant to help Floridians afford insurance, what’s next? Florida’s Democratic delegation in the U.S. House of Representatives wants to know, will Florida decline to enforce new consumer protections that: Allow young adults to stay on their parent’s plan until age 26? Prevent insurance companies from placing a lifetime limit on how much care they will provide? Require insurance companies to cover recommended preventive services, like mammograms and flu shots, without cost sharing? Require insurance companies to spend at least 80 to 85 percent of premium dollars on health care rather than CEO salaries, bonuses, and corporate profits? We want to know: Will Florida stop its effort to build a new, competitive, private health insurance marketplace for consumers that provides lower costs, one-stop insurance shopping, and greater benefits and protections? Will the state of Florida stop participating in the Early Retiree Reinsurance program? Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20): “Thousands of hard working Florida families are struggling to afford health care and millions more don’t have coverage for even basic medical expenses, let alone major illnesses. With their decision, Gov. Scott and Insurance Commissioner McCarty have turned their backs on millions of Floridians trying to protect their families. Slow-walking the implementation of the health care reform law shows a shocking lack of awareness of the health care needs of Florida working families and small business owners, but it also shows a shocking lack of fiscal responsibility. Why they are returning $1 million to anyone when the state faces a $3.6 billion shortfall is beyond me.” Rep. Alcee Hastings (FL-23): “Despite Judge Vinson’s recent ruling and in light of Wednesday’s Senate vote against repeal, the Affordable Care Act remains the law of the land. Does Governor Scott want to deny Floridians all the new protections and benefits of the health care law by suspending its implementation indefinitely? To add insult to injury, Insurance Commissioner McCarty has returned a $1 million health care grant given to Florida to help inform consumers of the rates of large-group insurers. This is certainly not ‘getting to work’ and truly irresponsible.” Rep. Corrine Brown (FL-03): “In all my years of service, I have worked to make affordable, quality health care available for ALL Americans. Indeed, for nearly a century, leaders across the political spectrum, beginning with President Franklin Delano Roosevelt and the Social Security Act of 1935, have fought for health care and health insurance reform. Apparently, Governor Scott is not only opposed to expanding access to health care for the people of Florida, but also to the numerous beneficial provisions already enacted in the law which greatly benefits Florida residents. These include the prohibition of the denial of coverage to children excluded due to pre-existing conditions, extending coverage to young adults up to age 26, a gradual closing of the prescription drug donut hole for Florida seniors, just to name a few.” Rep. Kathy Castor (FL-11): “Most hardworking families have no idea that only 65 percent to 70 percent of their premiums and copayments are devoted to medical services. The new requirement for 80 percent to 85 percent was adopted to protect consumers and prevent money that rightfully should be devoted to health care from being siphoned off by administrative costs, advertising and CEO salaries. Under the Act, states are given the responsibility to protect consumers and ensure that health insurance pays for medical care. Yet, Commissioner McCarty has decided that the State of Florida will abdicate this responsibility. I urge Commissioner McCarty to reconsider his decision. Florida must move ahead to protect families and consumers.” Rep. Ted Deutch (FL-19): “Governor Scott and the insurance commissioner’s decision to return this funding is pure political showmanship at the expense of our small businesses and working families. In Florida, health insurance premiums have skyrocketed by nearly 40 percent in the last decade, shrinking the paychecks of our workers, stifling the profits of our small businesses, and stunting our economic growth. With the unnecessary suspension of the law’s implementation, Floridians deserve to know what else in the law will not be enforced, from the requirement insurance companies cover children with preexisting conditions to the new rules forbidding insurers from charging exorbitant fees for mammograms, flu shots, and other preventative services.” Rep. Frederica Wilson (FL-17): “With over 3,500 Floridians losing their health coverage every week, Governor Scott and the insurance commissioner’s decision to reject these critical funds is wrong and unwise. Will he also decline to implement protections such as allowing young adults to stay on their parents’ plans until age 26 or requiring insurance companies to cover mammograms and prostate exams? These are crucial reforms that are needed without delay and I urge the Governor to reconsider his decision.” # # #
02.01.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in response to U.S. District Judge Roger Vinson’s recent ruling regarding the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. The Northern District of Florida judge declared the so-called “individual mandate” and, by extension, the entire law, unconstitutional. Judge Vinson’s decision contradicts 14 other court rulings, the opinion of over 100 law professors, and several recent polls showing narrow support by Americans for full repeal of the health care reform law. “Try as some may to repeal the Affordable Care Act, I strongly believe that making prescription drugs more affordable for seniors, helping small businesses provide health insurance to their employees through tax credits, and preventing insurance companies from denying or limiting care is what the American people need and deserve. “Judge Vinson’s ruling is flawed on multiple counts. Not only did he ignore decades of established Supreme Court law by declaring the entire health care reform law null and void, but it is it well within Congress’ constitutional authority to regulate economic activity under the Commerce Clause, the Necessary and Proper Clause, and the General Welfare Clause. “The decision not to purchase health insurance is an economic decision in itself that affects us as a whole. Each and every single day, millions of uninsured individuals access health care services, and these costs become everyone’s costs in the form of higher premiums and taxes. “In order to make affordable, quality health care more accessible for all Americans, we must take responsibility for our own health insurance. In fact, the majority of Americans are already doing this. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office estimates that only 1 percent of all Americans will pay a penalty in 2016 as a result of the ‘individual responsibility’ requirement. “Rather than preserve the many patient protections, benefits, and cost savings under the Affordable Care Act, Judge Vinson has aligned himself with the 25 Republican Attorneys General and Governors who filed the case. Overreaching decisions and partisan rulings have no place in the court room. I am confident that the constitutionality of the Affordable Care Act will prevail and that it is in the best interest of the American people.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings represents Florida’s 23rd Congressional district. He is a senior member of the House Rules Committee and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
02.01.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) issued the following statement in commemoration of the 35th annual Black History Month: “In 1926, Harvard Graduate and noted historian Carter G. Woodson founded ‘Negro History Week,’ a global recognition and celebration of African American contributions to the Americas and to the world in general. Woodson chose the second week of February, because it marked the birthdays of two Americans who had a profound influence in the fight for equality for African-Americans: Abraham Lincoln, the 16th President of the United States and Fredrick Douglass, former slave and abolitionist. “The initial purpose of ‘Negro History Week’ (later Black History Month) was to inform, educate, and dispel racial typecasts and correct the historical record, which suggested the only history African-Americans owned, was one of slavery, subjugation, and inferiority. Woodson believed that in order for African-Americans to eradicate the demoralizing shadows of systematic bondage and move forward into the light of sovereignty, they would need to foster an ideology which revealed their true selves: a people of resilience, intellect, strength, creativity, and determination. “Thirty-five years later, Black History Month continues to educate and highlight the remarkable contributions of people of the African diaspora in the arts, sciences, humanities, military, and politics which are all too often downplayed, denied and ignored. People of the African diaspora have played crucial roles in some of the most famous events in American history. African-American inventor Garrett Augustus Morgan created the gas mask—then became renowned for using his mask to save workers trapped in a toxic fume-filled tunnel. Matthew Henson, an African-American, was one of the first people to reach the North Pole. Otis Boykin, another African-American, invented electronic control devices for guided missiles, IBM computers, and the control unit for a pacemaker. African-American surgeon Charles R. Drew is often credited with the invention of the first large-scale blood bank. Much like the accomplishments of those before him, Barack Obama shattered yet another significant racial barrier in public service by becoming the first African-American President of the United States,” said Hastings. While changes in discriminatory laws and statutes have increased economic, career, and educational opportunities for people of the African diaspora in the United States, vast socioeconomic disparities continue to exist between African-Americans and their white counterparts. The economic downturn has aggravated these disparities. The unemployment rate for African-Americans, for instance, was 15.8 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010, compared to 8.7 percent for whites. While incomes have declined across the board this decade, African-Americans and Latinos were hit the hardest. Since 2000, African-Americans’ household incomes decreased 1.4 percent per year. These rates are significantly higher than that of whites, whose incomes declined 0.5 percent per year between 2000 and 2009. Moreover, in 2009, 25.9 percent of African-Americans were in poverty compared to only 9.4 percent of white Americans. Homeownership rates tell a similar story. In the third quarter of 2010, the homeownership rates for African-Americans was 45.0 percent while the homeownership rate for whites was 74.7 percent. Disparities in health are also troubling. It is appropriate that National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day occurs during Black History Month. Although African-Americans comprise roughly 13 percent of the U.S. population, they account for nearly half of all HIV/AIDS infections. And, African-Americans generally have higher rates of premature births, African-American women have higher mortality rates from breast cancer, and African-American suffer disproportionately from chronic conditions such as diabetes, hypertension and heart disease. “The African-American community continues to face ongoing systematic economic inequalities in the 21st century which is reminiscent of our nation’s past. However, such history gives us an opportunity to build a better and brighter future. Black History Month allows us to celebrate the contributions and progress that African-Americans have made, and develop solutions that will combat persistent inequalities which will result in stronger communities and a stronger nation. For these reasons, I am extremely pleased to commemorate Black History Month and encourage my colleagues to join me in doing so as well,” Hastings further commented. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings represents Florida’s 23rd Congressional district. He is a senior member of the House Rules Committee and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
02.01.2011	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) will be hosting a Congressional staff briefing entitled “Fair Housing, Unfair Practices: The Prevalence of Housing Discrimination” on Thursday, February 3 at 2:00 p.m. in room 2103 of the Rayburn House Office Building. This briefing will discuss current trends in housing discrimination; the widespread under-enforcement of federal fair housing and lending laws; disparate impact of housing discrimination on minorities, women with children and persons with disabilities; and the link between the lack of fair housing enforcement and our current foreclosure crisis. DETAILS: WHAT: “Fair Housing, Unfair Practices: The Prevalence of Housing Discrimination”Congressional Staff Briefing WHEN:Thursday, February 3, 2011 at 2:00 pm WHERE:2103 Rayburn House Office Building (Washington, DC) PANELISTS: Sara Pratt, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Enforcement and Program, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity Shanna Smith, President and Chief Executive Officer, National Fair Housing Alliance Don Kahl, Executive Director, Equal Rights Center Keenya Robertson, Esq., President and Chief Executive Officer, Housing Opportunities Project for Excellence, Inc. Fair Housing Center Aracely Panameno, Director of Latino Affairs, Center for Responsible Lending Congressman Alcee L. Hastings represents Florida’s 23rd Congressional district. He is a senior member of the House Rules Committee and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
01.28.2011	On Wednesday, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) co-sponsored the Preserving Our Promise to Seniors Act, which was reintroduced by Congressman Ted Deutch (FL-19) on the heels of President Obama’s call to strengthen Social Security for future generations in Tuesday’s State of the Union address. Joining Hastings as co-sponsors of this legislation are Reps. Barney Frank (MA-4), Russ Carnahan (MO-3), Chellie Pingree (ME-1), and Mark Critz (PA-12). In an era of gutted pensions, a volatile stock market, and low home values, the Preserving our Promise to Seniors Act extends the solvency of Social Security, America’s most trusted and reliable domestic program. This comprehensive legislation solidifies Social Security’s fiscal future without raising the retirement age or slashing benefits, and finally ensures adequate cost of living adjustments for seniors each year. “Proponents of the privatization of Social Security and cuts to benefits must stop pretending that these are equitable solutions to the challenges that we face and take real steps to continue strengthening the program for this and future generations,” said Congressman Hastings. “The Preserving our Promise to Seniors Act does exactly this. I stand with the seniors of South Florida, the Treasure Coast, and our nation as a whole to ensure that they have a reliable source of income with which to retire with dignity and live independently following a lifetime of hard work and paying their fair share.” “In the coming weeks and months, my Republican colleagues are likely to perpetuate the tired falsehood that Social Security will go bankrupt unless we cut it, gut it, or tie to the whims of Wall Street,” said Congressman Deutch. “The seniors in my district will not stand for it, because they know that by bringing fairness back to the Social Security contribution system, we can close the solvency gap and improve benefits for all retirees. The American people do not believe in handouts, but they do believe in a hard day’s work. A lifetime of productivity should translate into a basic sense of financial security at retirement.” Last year, Social Security recipients were informed that for the second consecutive year, they would not receive a cost of living increase to their monthly benefits. This unprecedented announcement underscored the need to change how cost of living adjustments are calculated. The Preserving our Promise to Seniors Act improves retirement benefits by establishing a Consumer Price Index for the Elderly that accurately reflects the expenses faced by today’s seniors. The legislation also institutes an automatic supplemental payment of $250 to Social Security beneficiaries in times of economic depression, a provision designed to protect this important benefit from future attempts to sabotage it. “As we’ve seen from the past two years, we must change how the Social Security COLA is calculated so that seniors’ benefits rise with inflation,” said Congressman Critz. “After a lifetime of hard work, our seniors deserve to get the Social Security benefits that they’ve earned, and this important legislation will help both current and future beneficiaries.” “Seniors didn’t get a cost of living increase last year because the government said prices didn’t go up, but anyone who is trying to get by on Social Security while paying for heat, food and prescriptions will tell you that just isn’t true,” Congresswoman Pingree said. “This bill would create a cost of living index that reflects what seniors really are paying to get by.” “Wherever I go, I hear from seniors who are really feeling the strain of making ends meet without a cost of living increase,” said Congressman Carnahan. “Food, medicine – all of those prices have gone up. When you’re living on a fixed income, every single penny matters, and seniors count on those few additional dollars they get with their annual cost of living increase.” “Seniors face rising costs and the Social Security cost-of-living formula should reflect that. It’s a simple matter of fairness,” added Congressman Frank. Even with the oncoming retirement of the baby boomers, Social Security will not add a dollar to the deficit until 2037, at which point it will only be able to pay out 75 percent of the benefits it owes. Rising income inequality and a shrinking middle class have left fewer wages subject to Social Security taxes. In fact, the current cap is down to 84 percent of all wages earned, a 30-year low that threatens solvency. This bill instead extends the program’s solvency by lifting the Social Security cap and bringing fairness back to the contribution system. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings represents Florida’s 23rd Congressional district. He is a senior member of the House Rules Committee and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
01.27.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) joined the international community in commemorating International Holocaust Remembrance Day and honoring the victims of the Holocaust. This year marks the 66th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz, the largest of the camps established by the Nazis, and was designated by the United Nations in 2005 as International Holocaust Remembrance Day. “Auschwitz was the site of the largest mass murder in human history. Today, I join the world in honoring the victims the Holocaust and remember the approximately six million Jews and countless other minorities who were murdered at the hands of the Nazis. “Furthermore, I have joined my colleague Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky and other Members of Congress in co-sponsoring a resolution commemorating International Holocaust Remembrance Day and renewing our commitment to work together to fight against racism, intolerance, bigotry, and anti-Semitism wherever it occurs. “As a representative of South Florida which possesses one of the largest populations of Holocaust survivors in the world, I solemnly recall the words of German-Jewish essayist Kurt Tucholsky on this memorial day: ‘A country is not just what it does - it is also what it tolerates.’ Today provides us with an opportunity to honor the survivors but it is also a chance to examine our own lives and communities. I will continue to work to ensure that the memories of those who suffered and perished during the Holocaust are never forgotten. And as their memories live on, so will the fight against the hatred and brutality that fueled the Holocaust in order to prevent the same evil from taking place again in the future. “The United Nation’s has declared this year’s theme for International Holocaust Remembrance Day: Woman and the Holocaust – Courage and Compassion. Today, I honor the courageous women who struggled to survive and protect their children from the horrors inflicted by the Nazis. Through their determination, leadership, compassion, and willpower, they fed their families, helped to maintain a sense of community and religious traditions and faced Nazi persecution with dignity and strength.” Between 1940 and 1945, around 1.3 million people were sent to Auschwitz. Of those, 1.1 million died there, including at least 960,000 Jews, 74,000 Poles, 21,000 Roma, 15,000 Soviet prisoners of war, and as many as 15,000 members of other nationalities, including Czechs, Yugoslavs, French, Germans, and Austrians. The camp was liberated on January 27, 1945 by the Soviet army. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings represents Florida’s 23rd Congressional district. He is a senior member of the House Rules Committee and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
01.25.2011	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in response to President Obama’s State of the Union address: “One year ago, President Obama spoke of economic recovery. The Democratic-led Congress heard this call and immediately went to work passing legislation to help Americans get back on their feet. Legislation that extended unemployment benefits for millions of Americans across the nation and in my home state of Florida, which has one of the highest rates of unemployment at 12 percent. Legislation that created and saved 320,000 jobs for teachers, police officers, and firefighters. Legislation to reform Wall Street to protect consumers. And, legislation to reform our nation’s health care system to ensure that access to affordable, quality health care is not simply a privilege for some, but a guaranteed right for all. Each and every one of these laws have helped Americans through difficult times and we are beginning to see the fruit of all of these efforts. “Much was accomplished in the 111th Congress, but too many Americans remain unemployed and continue to struggle. Now more than ever, it is imperative that we come together, and work together, to move America forward. Now is not the time to return to failed policies of the previous administration. It is time to get serious about job creation. As Co-Chairman of the Democratic Caucus’ Jobs Task Force, I am committed to doing just that. “I welcome the President’s call for increasing our nation’s competitiveness. I agree with him that, in order to spur job creation and for our long-term recovery, it is critical that America remain competitive in the global market. To do this, we must also ensure that everyone has access to a quality and affordable education. Now is not the time to enact policies that hinder students’ options and access to post-secondary education. “I agree with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle that we need to get serious about government spending and our country’s deficit. But we must address this issue in its entirety and stop the political nonsense. The ‘YouCut’ project is a prime example of the Republicans’ diversionary tactics. Additionally, if these programs were to be cut, they would not even make a dent in the deficit compared to a five-percent cut of military spending, which I support. “As a nation, we must keep moving forward. It is time that we tone down the rhetoric and get down to the business of the American people.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings represents Florida’s 23rd Congressional district. He is a senior member of the House Rules Committee and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
01.22.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in recognition of the 38th anniversary of the landmark Supreme Court decision, Roe v. Wade, which legalized abortion and gave women an immutable voice on matters of their own health: “Since 1972, women in America have been able to determine their own reproductive lives. The constitutional right to privacy has withstood numerous legal challenges and helped ensure that more women have access to lifesaving reproductive services. While the legacy of Roe v. Wade has endured, the commemoration of this important Supreme Court case and its implications for our society are no less important than in years past. “Each year, the recognition of Roe v. Wade’s anniversary is met with indignation from anti-choice activists. This year, anti-choice demonstrators will march behind the theme: ‘Thou Shalt Protect the Equal Right to Life of Each Innocent Born and Preborn Human in Existence at Fertilization. No Exception! No Compromise!’ While I understand their point of view, I respectfully disagree. Because of Roe v. Wade, thousands of women’s lives have been spared through legal abortion care. It is unconscionable that any woman should have to suffer the indignity of an illegal ‘back alley’ abortion, which often results in infertility or death. It is utterly preposterous that a victim of rape or incest should be forced to bear their attacker’s child as some anti-choice activists would prefer. As history shows, outlawing abortion will not prevent the procedure from being performed in an illegal and unsafe manner. “Appropriately, a woman’s right to privacy on matters of reproductive and personal health, the legal basis for abortion that is protected by Roe v. Wade, is firmly grounded in constitutional precedent. Integral to Roe v. Wade’s constitutional viability were the Supreme Court cases Griswold v. Connecticut (1965) and Eisenstadt v. Baird (1972). Together, these cases recognized the right of an individual ‘to be free from unwarranted governmental intrusion into matters so fundamentally affecting a person as the decision whether to bear or beget a child.’ “While abortion remains protected by constitutional precedent, challenges to Roe v. Wade’s protection of abortion have generated mandatory waiting periods, biased counseling requirements, restrictions of young women’s access, and costly and unnecessary regulations that make it increasingly difficult for women to obtain safe abortion care. “Abortion generates a passionate reaction in many Americans. While I understand that some may personally be opposed to abortion, I lament the vitriol that surrounds abortion within our cultural discourse. The most recent and tragic example of the corrosive effects of hyperbolic anti-choice rhetoric was the 2009 murder of Dr. George Tiller, an abortion provider in Wichita, Kansas, who was gunned-down while he was at church. “As we reflect on the 38th anniversary of Roe v. Wade, a culture of misinformation, violence, and intimidation pervades the national discussion on abortion and hinders women from receiving appropriate care and counseling. I remain committed to supporting a woman’s constitutional right to make decisions about her own body and echo the professional opinion of Dr. Nada Stotland, a psychiatrist and professor of obstetrics and gynecology who testified before the Senate: ‘[women should be able to make decisions] on the basis of their own values, beliefs, and circumstances, free from pressure or coercion, and to have those decisions, whether to terminate or continue a pregnancy, supported by their families, friends, and society in general.’” ###
01.20.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) sent the following letter to Administrator J. Randolph Babbitt of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) requesting an extension of the lease of the Lockhart Stadium to the School Board of Broward County. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter). January 20, 2011 Mr. J. Randolph BabbittAdministratorFederal Aviation AdministrationU.S. Department of Transportation800 Independence Avenue, S.W.Washington, D.C. 20591 Dear Administrator Babbitt: I write to request that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) concur with a two-year lease extension of Lockhart Stadium, located at Fort Lauderdale Executive Airport, to the School Board of Broward County. For the past 25 years, Lockhart Stadium has been home to several area school teams and a popular venue for community sporting events. Allowing the School Board’s current lease to expire on June 30, 2011, will have a detrimental effect on thousands of students, parents, and residents in my Congressional district and neighboring communities. Lockhart Stadium embodies both the school spirit of the students who play there as well as that of the Fort Lauderdale community. Fort Lauderdale, Stranahan, and Dillard High Schools utilize Lockhart as their home stadium, which makes up a central component of the interscholastic programs of several Broward County schools. In fact, Lockhart Stadium is host to many high school and community sporting events that regularly attract 6,000 spectators per game, as well as multiple high and middle school soccer events, high school combines, and competitions. Furthermore, major high school athletic events such as state playoff football games, the BCAA All-Star Football Classic, SOUL Bowl Game, All-Star Soccer Game, and All-Star Flag Football Game are also played there. As you know, the FAA did not concur with the City of Fort Lauderdale’s May 18, 2010, request for a five-year lease extension of Lockhart Stadium, citing its plan for future use of the property including the conversion of the site from parkland to an airport zoning designation. While I recognize the FAA’s prerogative to utilize and develop this property, given the considerable impact that this would have on area schools and the greater community, I respectfully ask that the City of Fort Lauderdale be granted a two-year lease extension so that it may prepare together with Executive Airport staff and the School Board of Broward County a plan for the management of the stadium. In addition, given overextended city budgets and major reductions to education funding during this difficult economic time, I also ask that the FAA extend the current lease at the current rate. The City of Fort Lauderdale, in support of high school sports, has maintained this cooperative lease arrangement with Lockhart Stadium and its partnership with the School Board over the years to ensure that students have access to a quality athletic facility. Unfortunately, previous efforts to construct new on-campus stadiums at Stranahan and other Broward County high schools have been cancelled, as the capital construction of athletic facilities has been significantly reduced. Lockhart Stadium therefore remains the sole athletic facility providing access and stability to these schools and the greater community. Thank you for your consideration of this matter. It is my sincere hope that the FAA will continue to support interscholastic sports and the Fort Lauderdale community by concurring with this short-term lease extension. Consequently, I respectfully ask to be kept informed of the overall progress of this request. Should you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact me. Sincerely, Alcee L. HastingsMember of Congress ### Rep_Alcee_Hastings_Letter_to_FAA_Administrator_Babbitt_1_20_2011.pdf
01.20.2011	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced a resolution expressing the sense of the House of Representatives regarding the contributions of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES). CITES was created in 1973 to ensure that the survival of endangered species is not threatened by international trade. (Please find attached a copy of the legislation) “Nearly 5,000 species of animals and 28,000 species of plants are protected by the Convention against over-exploitation through international trade. Unfortunately, international trade, both legal and illegal, has exacerbated the dangers and brought more and more species close to extinction. International wildlife trade is estimated to be worth billions of dollars per year and to include hundreds of millions of live plants and animals and derived products such as food products, leather and fur, ornamentals, ivory, and timber,” said Hastings. Every two to three years the parties of CITES meet at the Conference of the Parties to review the status of species in danger of extinction and establish trade restrictions. The 15th meeting of the Conference of the Parties was held last year. “Several proposals were submitted during the summit, some of them ensuring better protections for endangered species, others trying to downlist species and re-open trade. While proposals to downlist elephant populations were successfully defeated, numerous proposals to establish stronger protections for the polar bear, eight sharks, the bluefin tuna and other species were unfortunately rejected. I am saddened to see that economic interests have prevailed over species conservation, which could ultimately bring them to extinction. This is unacceptable. “The United States has a moral obligation to protect endangered species and their natural habitat. Wild animals are a very important part of our commonly held natural resources and contribute to the diversity and stability of our environment. It is essential to work with the international community to ensure the survival of these incredible species. I believe that the stakes are too high to let national interests and differences hinder the future of our planet,” added Hastings. The resolution will recognize the important contributions the Convention has made in regulating international trade in endangered species and protecting endangered species worldwide. It will also applaud the Convention’s leadership in protecting elephants in Tanzania and Zambia. Lastly, the resolution will urge all parties to the Convention to collaborate effectively to curb excessive exploitation of species for international trade and to adopt stronger protections for several endangered species at the 16th meeting of the Conference of the Parties in 2013. Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors are Representatives (16) Earl Blumenauer, Gerry Connolly, Ted Deutch, Keith Ellison, Eni Faleomavaega, Sam Farr, Mazie Hirono, Barbara Lee, John Lewis, James Moran, Grace Napolitano, Bobby Rush, Fortney Pete Stark, Mike Thompson, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, and David Wu. ### CITES_resolution_112th.pdf
01.20.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement decrying gun violence and the shooting of two Miami-Dade police officers. The officers were shot while attempting to serve an arrest warrant this morning in Miami, Florida. “My thoughts and prayers are with all those affected by the tragic and senseless deaths of two Miami-Dade officers this morning. I have been deeply concerned about Florida’s relaxed gun control laws and now more than ever it is clear that stronger gun control measures are needed. “The United States is a rife with gun violence. We have 285 million guns and 310 million citizens, 85 guns for every 100 Americans, and more than 30,000 people are killed every year. After September 11, in which 10 percent of that number died, we began a global war, spent trillions of dollars, and reformed enormous swaths of our federal government to try to prevent even one more attack. But for gun violence? We wring our hands. “The lessons learned from this shooting, and that of the tragedy in Tucson, are staring us in the face and we need to take action to address the ludicrous availability of guns in this country.” Hastings is a co-sponsor of H.R. 263, the Fire Sale Loophole Closing Act introduced by Congressman Gary Ackerman and H.R. 308, the Large Capacity Ammunition Feeding Device Act introduced by Congresswoman Carolyn McCarthy. ###
01.19.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) blasted the passage of H.R. 2, the Repealing the Jobs-Killing Health Care Law Act. This Republican-sponsored bill repeals the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, which has expanded access to affordable, quality health care for 32 million Americans and continues to provide further benefits and protections to millions more since its enactment on March 23, 2010. “It is indeed a sad day for our nation when my Republican colleagues would vote to help themselves over helping the American people. Rather than focus on the true task before us -- putting more Americans back to work --, House Republicans have set the tone for the beginning of the 112th Congress by pursuing this fruitless repeal effort for their own political gain instead of measures to create jobs and grow our economy. “Republicans may be able to change words on a page as if nothing happened, but they cannot undo the Affordable Care Act without hurting those whom it has helped, and the millions more it will help. Because of the Affordable Care Act, young adults looking for jobs can stay on their parents’ plans until they turn 26; children with pre-existing conditions cannot be denied coverage; prescription drugs for seniors under Medicare Part D are more affordable; and much, much more. “While it is troubling that Republicans would gamble with the health of Americans, I am confident that this legislation will go no further in the Senate nor ultimately be signed into law by President Obama. “It is my sincere hope that the American people will now see through the hypocrisy and political rhetoric of the Republicans. Repealing comprehensive health care reform is nothing more than a political stunt that promises to strip middle class, working poor, and other vulnerable American of their access to affordable, quality health care. One that, I might add, also grows the deficit by $230 billion dollars over the next 10 years and over $1 trillion in the following decade. “The bottom line is that Republicans would rather take this country back to a time when looking for a job meant going without health care than move this country forward. Frankly, it is time to create more of the jobs that the American people need and deserve, not take extreme measures like the one passed today.” As a Member of Congress since 1992, Hastings has always advocated for smart, comprehensive, and sustainable health care reform. In the 111th Congress alone, he sponsored and co-sponsored over 200 health-related bills in order to increase health care affordability, access, and quality, and has led and supported efforts to facilitate better health care at home in his Congressional district and for the nation as a whole. Hastings also introduced legislation to bring fair competition to the drug market and increase patient access to affordable generic medications; increase access to voluntary screening for HIV/AIDS and STIs as well as other preventive services, especially for groups that have been historically underrepresented in public health interventions; and establish a commission designed to construct a comprehensive national strategy on how to increase the affordability, accessibility, and effectiveness of long-term care and community services. ###
01.17.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) issued the following statement in commemoration of the 25th annual Martin Luther King, Jr. Day: “We are all forever indebted to Dr. King for fighting to change America’s legacy from racism and hatred to a goal of acceptance and equality. Dr. King led a movement which sparked the conscience of America and turned the race dialogue into ground-breaking legislation that would attack years of slavery and segregation. From the march in Selma came the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Down the path to Montgomery came the Voting Rights Act of 1965. And the rallies in Chicago spurred the Fair Housing Act of 1968, the last of the historic civil rights legislation that sprang from Dr. King. “Dr. King once said ‘Change does not roll in on the wheels of inevitability, but comes through continuous struggle. And so we must straighten our backs and work for our freedom. A man can't ride you unless your back is bent.’ “While we have made momentous progress in the fight against discrimination and inequity, the long road to success still stretches before us. Disparities in employment, health, and wealth continue to persist among communities of color in the United States and abroad, and this will require inclusive and sustainable interventions. “Dr. King was a pivotal character of the civil rights era, and his legacy to strive for the equality and well-being of all people continues to live on. I hearten all Americans to recognize Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day as not only a day off from work or school, but a day to consider what more we can be doing to fulfill Dr. King's dream and foster progress in our local and international community.” ###
01.12.2011	(Washington, DC) Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the one year anniversary of the 7.0 magnitude earthquake that devastated Haiti in 2010, causing thousands of casualties and severely damaging the infrastructure of the nation: “A year ago today, we all watched in horror as millions of Haitians fought for their lives among the wreckage of crumbling buildings. Yet a year later, far too many Haitians are still struggling for survival. Though the generosity of the global community has been commendable, much more needs to be done. “The rubble has yet to be cleared, over a million remain without permanent housing, and a lack of clean water has led to a full-blown cholera epidemic. Though it has been a year, now is not the time to turn our backs on our Haitian neighbors. “Not only is more needed to address Haiti’s immediate needs, but investment in Haiti’s long-term development is vital to the ultimate success of this recovery. It is both our moral obligation and in the United States’ best interest to stand with Haiti in order to build the thriving, self-sufficient nation it has all the potential to become. “On this somber day, I remain steadfast in my commitment to the Haitian people and have faith that with the good will, cooperation, and resources of the United States, the Haitian government, and the international community, this unspeakable tragedy will lead to a much brighter future for Haiti.” ###
01.11.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement recognizing the importance of Human Trafficking Awareness Day: “Human trafficking is a global crime and yet most Americans do not realize that the United States is one of the biggest hubs for trafficking of persons. Florida is a major human trafficking destination and is rated as one of the top four ‘destination states’ for domestic trafficking. I was dismayed to hear that a chief assistant U.S. attorney who has prosecuted multiple human trafficking crimes deemed South Florida the ‘ground zero for modern slavery.’ “I believe that we have a responsibility to make ourselves aware of the tragic circumstances taking place here in the United States from children being forced into prostitution to workers exploited in the fields and in factories. “I encourage all Americans to join me in recognizing the efforts of government workers and nongovernmental organizations that are dedicated to identifying these victims and their fight to shut down the over $10 billion human trafficking industry. “Awareness is the best form of prevention and I am proud to be a part of the movement to bring light to this domestic crisis today. In the next few days, I will be launching a new page on my website (www.alceehastings.house.gov) that will shed light on this issue and provide my constituents and other readers with ways in which we can all play a role in preventing and putting an end to this tragic form of modern day slavery,” said Hastings. There are an estimated 27 million people in slavery around the world. The Florida Department of Children and Families’ Protections for Child Victims of Human Trafficking Information Kit reported that an estimated 14,500-17,500 people are “trafficked” annually in the United States, 80 percent of which are women and children. Identified trafficking victims in Florida have included: women from Latin America and Eastern Europe; as well as U.S. teenage runaways forced into prostitution; male and female immigrant farm laborers from Central America; Eastern European women exploited while working in hotels; U.S. citizens who are homeless men recruited as farm laborers; and girls from Haiti, Honduras, and India held as house slaves. For more information, please visit http://nhtrc.polarisproject.org/. ###
01.08.2011	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) released the following statement on the news that Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords and others were shot at an event in Tuscan, AZ earlier today: “Gabby is truly a nice person, highly principled and tenacious. The attack on her, staff members, constituents and bystanders is incredibly senseless. My prayer and hope is that Gabby and all who were injured will be made whole. My condolences go out to those who have lost loved ones. Once all the facts are known, appropriate authorities should see to it that her attacker is brought to justice swiftly. All persons in America should call for our society to teach tolerance, love, and civility,” said Hastings. ###
01.06.2011	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) expressed sadness upon learning of the death of Katherine C. Kelly, who died this morning at the age of 86. Katherine was a lifelong champion of human rights and universal health care. “I would like to take this opportunity to honor the life of a great American, Mrs. Katherine C. Kelly,” said Hastings. “Katherine was a good friend and supporter for more than 40 years.” Katherine was born on June 20, 1924 in New Rochelle, New York and grew up in South Orange, New Jersey where she graduated from Miss Beard’s School in 1942 before going on to graduate from Wellesley College in 1946. She went on to be the founding member of the Society of Women Engineers in addition to the International Fishing Association. Additionally, in the 1980s, Katherine helped to lead Americans for Democratic Action. Over the course of her life, she and her late husband, Edward M. Kelly, were prominently active in the Civil Rights movement, the fight for women’s rights, gay rights, and other progressive movements in the United States. Katherine dedicated her life to the Democratic Party, serving as State Committeewoman from Palm Beach County for 26 years. Additionally, she was named to the Electoral College and served as a delegate to five Democratic National Conventions. Katherine also served as the Legislative Director for Florida NOW, as Vice President of the Florida Women’s Political Caucus, as a Board member for NARAL, and as Development Director of Women Leaders Online. Her continued dedication to political and progressive causes led to recognition as the Outstanding Feminist 2001 by Florida NOW and Woman of the Year in 2008 by the Democratic Women’s Club Palm Beach County. “Katherine was deeply loved and widely respected by everyone who knew her,” further noted Hastings. “Today, our nation has lost someone who represented all that is good in the world.” ###
12.18.2010	Tonight, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the Senate's passage of legislation to repeal Don't Ask, Don't Tell, the 1993 law that bans open service by gay and lesbian Americans in the military: “The activists for tolerance living and dead are united today in a long awaited and overdue celebration. “I am truly elated that we have taken one more intolerable policy of intolerance off the political table. “I would be terribly remiss if I did not take this opportunity to thank the countless individuals who have worked tirelessly on behalf of this cause. Today, the United States reaffirms its commitment to honor, integrity, and equality for all. “Now, the Army model can become the mantra of all persons’ service to this great country, ‘be all that you can be.’ God bless America,” said Hastings. Hastings has been a leader in the fight to repeal ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,’ having introduced an amendment to ban the use of defense appropriations funds to investigate and discharge service members for telling their sexual orientation and legislation that would protect active-duty service members, regardless of their sexual orientation, who openly testify in Congressional hearings by expanding current whistleblower protections between members of the Armed Forces and Members of Congress. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
12.17.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) released the following statement in support of the repeal of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell: “Once again, the House of Representatives has acted to lift the ban on gay and lesbian Americans serving openly in the military by passing H.R. 2965, the “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell Repeal Act of 2010”, by a vote of 250-175. Earlier this year, the House also passed national defense authorization along with a repeal provision. I applaud Majority Leader Hoyer and Congressman Murphy for their leadership in this effort. “Strong leadership has been, and remains, the key to successfully repealing Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell and replacing it with a policy of inclusion and non-discrimination. It is now up to the Senate to seal the deal. I urge the Senate in the strongest possible terms to act as soon as possible to pass the legislation necessary to repeal Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell before the end of the year. “I stand with President Obama, Defense Secretary Gates, Adm. Mullen, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the majority of service members and Americans on this matter. It is clear from the Pentagon’s recently concluded study that the 1993 Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell law runs counter to the values that our Armed Forces embody and, indeed, our brave men and women in uniform. “Furthermore, it dispels the argument that Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell repeal would harm military readiness and unit cohesion. In fact, approximately 70 percent of service members, including their families, support open service by gay and lesbian Americans and that Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell repeal would have no negative effects on their units’ ability to “work together to get the job done.” “There is no doubt in my mind that the Pentagon will be able to move forward with repeal in a manner that ensures our military’s readiness and our national security while meeting the needs of our service members and their families. “Despite everything that has already been said, however, there are those who will vote to preserve Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell. I can think of only one reason why anyone would vote to condone such a farce of a policy rather than support our troops, and that, is prejudice. “At this moment, we stand closer to repeal than ever before. I could go on and reiterate all the reasons why we should repeal Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell, but the time for talk is over. After 17 years of discussion, the only thing left remaining to do is to repeal it. It is the right thing to do for our troops, the American people, and our nation as a whole.” Congressman Hastings has been a leader in the fight to repeal ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,’ having introduced an amendment to ban the use of defense appropriations funds to investigate and discharge service members for telling their sexual orientation and legislation that would protect active-duty service members, regardless of their sexual orientation, who openly testify in Congressional hearings by expanding current whistleblower protections between members of the Armed Forces and Members of Congress. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
12.15.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced a resolution welcoming the release of Burmese democracy leader and Nobel Peace Prize Laureate Aung San Suu Kyi on November 13th, 2010. Additionally, the resolution calls for a continued focus on securing the release of all political prisoners and prisoners of conscience in Burma. (Please find attached a copy of the resolution). “I was pleased by the release of Aung San Suu Kyi last month from Burma’s military regime and strongly urge her release to be permanent and unconditional,” said Hastings. “This is a step towards democratic progress, but there is still much more that needs to be done.” Aung San Suu Kyi has spent 15 of the past 21 years in detainment after first being placed on house arrest in Burma on July 20, 1989. Even though offered freedom if she left the country at that time, Daw Aung Suu Kyi remained in Burma and continued her non-violent struggle against oppression. She has served as an inspiration to the Burmese people and the world, having been honored with the Nobel Peace Prize in 1991. Additionally, Daw Aung Suu Kyi received the Presidential Medal of Honor in 2000, the highest civilian award in the United States, and the Congressional Medal of Honor in 2008. “Aung San Suu Kyi has demonstrated unwavering and determined political leadership, provided inspiration, and garnered respect from the people of Burma and democracy-loving people around the world,” said Hastings. “I am humbled by her tireless efforts in pursuit of human rights and democracy in Burma.” Hastings’ resolution recognizes the contributions made by Aung San Suu Kyi and welcomes her release. Additionally, it calls for the immediate and unconditional release of all political prisoners and prisoners of conscience in Burma, including Aung San Suu Kyi’s supporters in the National League for Democracy and ordinary citizens of Burma, including ethnic minorities, who publicly and courageously speak out against the regime’s many injustices. “Today, however, we must not rejoice. Daw Aung San Suu Kyi has called on all world leaders to stay focused on the plight of each one of the millions of Burmese struggling against the military rule, on the over two thousand two hundred political prisoners suffering unjustly in Burmese prisons, and the thousands of women and children being systematically raped and taken as sex slaves and porters for the military whose rule they suffer under. “The House of Representatives has the opportunity today to celebrate Daw Aung San Suu Kyi’s freedom. And, yet, we celebrate with a heavy heart for all of the millions still suffering in Burma. I urge my colleagues to stand firmly in solidarity with Aung San Suu Kyi and the people of Burma with your support of the passage of this resolution, human rights, an end to the junta-imposed violence, democratic progress, and for the release of all prisoners of conscience in Burma.” Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors are Representatives (16): Madeleine Bordallo, Joseph Cao, Joseph Crowley, Donna Edwards, John Hall, Rush Holt, Peter King, Jim McGovern, Jim Moran, Hank Johnson, John Lewis, John Olver, Joseph Pitts, Chris Van Hollen, Aaron Schock, Frank Wolf Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Aung_San_Suu_Kyi_Resolution_12-15-10.pdf
12.14.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings applauded the first-ever White House Forum on Environmental Justice. The forum will be held on December 15, 2010, and participants include White House Council on Environmental Quality Chair Nancy Sutley, EPA Administrator Lisa P. Jackson, Attorney General Eric Holder, Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar, Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis, Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius, Secretary of Energy Steven Chu, and Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano. “For too long, at-risk minority and low-income communities have been forced to endure more than their share of our country’s environmental impact,” said Hastings. “I’ve been fighting for this issue for years and am pleased that the White House is offering its support to protect minority and low-income communities from continued environmental injustices.” More than 70 percent of African Americans and Latinos, compared to only 58 percent of non-minority populations, live in counties that regularly fail to meet current clean air standards. In these areas, a disproportionate number of citizens are suffering from cancer, asthma, toxic poisoning and lung-related deaths. “It’s no coincidence that the majority of power plants and refineries in the United States are built in low-income neighborhoods,” Hastings continued. “Our government cannot ignore obvious dangers simply because they are posed to citizens with little political influence. I hope that this forum is a step in the right direction to meet the needs of our society. Justice should never be reserved only for those who can afford to help themselves. I look forward to working with President Obama and my colleagues in Congress to solve these disparities.” Congressman Hastings led the first effort to incorporate environmental justice principles in appropriations legislation. Additionally, he has co-authored key legislation to codify Executive Order 12898, Federal Actions to Address Environmental Justice in Minority Populations and Low-Income Populations, signed by former President Clinton in 1994. Hastings has also authored legislation in the 109th and 110th Congresses on developing capacity for environmental justice communities through initiatives to identify environmental burdens and mitigate their impacts. He will introduce related legislation in the 112th Congress. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
12.03.2010	Last night, the House of Representatives adopted under suspension of the rules a House Concurrent Resolution introduced by Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) expressing Congress’s support of the goals and ideals of National Homeless Persons’ Memorial Day. (Please find attached a copy of this resolution). With the support of the National Coalition for the Homeless, the National Consumer Advisory Board, and the National Health Care for the Homeless Council, National Homeless Persons’ Memorial Day brings attention to the tragedy of homelessness by holding memorial services for homeless individuals who have died from causes related to their homelessness. Hastings’ resolution encourages state and local governments, the President, media, and the general public to support the goals and ideals of National Homeless Persons’ Memorial Day as well as reaffirms our country’s commitment to helping those less fortunate members of society and acknowledges the efforts of those who currently are. Hastings, who serves as the Co-Founder and Co-Chairman of the Congressional Caucus on Homelessness, released the following statement regarding his resolution: “I offer my strong support of House Concurrent Resolution 325, a concurrent resolution to support the goals and ideals of a National Homeless Persons’ Memorial Day, in recognition of the people who have died on our streets, in emergency shelters, condemned or abandoned properties, and from elements directly related to homelessness. “On or near the first day of winter and the longest night of the year, National Homeless Persons’ Memorial Day events have been held nationwide every year since 1990 to remember the homeless persons whose lives and deaths might otherwise go without any recognition. “Throughout my home state of Florida, this important day is recognized, along with over 200 other local municipalities, organizations, and statewide organizations throughout the United States holding community-wide vigils, memorials, and service events. “More than half a million people in the United States do not have a place to call home each night and half of them are without shelter. Nationwide each year, an estimated 2,000,000 people experience homelessness. Furthermore, the mortality rate among homeless populations has been shown to be almost four times that of the general population. Homelessness is expensive and can be prevented. “This resolution provides us with the opportunity to commend the efforts of the States, territories, and possessions of the United States who support the goals and ideals of National Homeless Persons’ Memorial Day, to encourage those not already doing so, and to salute the dedicated professionals and organizations who provide assistance 365 days a year to people in need. “Most importantly, a national memorial day will ensure that we keep the problem in perspective. Through all the statistics on homelessness, all too often, we forget that numbers correspond to actual individuals with actual lives and families. “As the 2010 Federal Strategic Plan to Prevent and End Homelessness declares: “There are no ‘homeless people,’ but rather people who have lost their homes who deserve to be treated with dignity and respect.” In remembering those who died on the streets, the cause of ending homelessness is kept urgent as is the Nation's collective commitment to preventing such deaths in the future. “We must remember their lives—men, women, and children—and we must remember why they died. “The passage of this resolution reaffirms Congress’ commitment to ending homelessness by promoting a comprehensive national response that addresses the housing, health care, income, and civil rights causal factors and consequences of extreme poverty. Let us make this year’s first night of winter and longest night of the year, December 21, 2010, a true National Memorial Day.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### H.Con.Res._325_-_National_Homeless_Persons_Memorial_Day.pdf
12.01.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) recognized the importance of World AIDS Day in the global effort to combat the HIV/AIDS epidemic. According to the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV and AIDS (UNAIDS), there are now 33.3 million people living with HIV/AIDS worldwide, including 2.5 million children. In the United States, approximately 1.1 million people are living with HIV/AIDS and an estimated 56,300 Americans are newly infected with HIV each year. As the 22nd annual World AIDS Day is observed around the world, HIV/AIDS remains a significant public health challenge. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), more than one in five HIV-positive individuals are unaware that they are infected, which means that they may be transmitting HIV without knowing it. This year’s World AIDS Day theme is “Universal Access and Human Rights,” underscoring the critical importance of increasing access to prevention services and treatment and recognizing the rights of HIV/AIDS patients as human rights. “Every first of December for the past 22 years, we have commemorated World AIDS Day to increase awareness, improve education, combat prejudice, remember those who are no longer with us, and celebrate how far we have come in the struggle against HIV/AIDS. Thanks to the dedication of countless scientists, health care providers, government officials, organizations, and activists, more and more people can live with HIV/AIDS rather than die from it. “Although HIV/AIDS knows no borders, the disease has taken a particularly devastating toll on my district. My home state of Florida continues to rank among the top-three states in the nation in reported HIV/AIDS cases. Nearly half of these are concentrated in Broward, Miami-Dade, and Orange Counties, with Broward County having the second highest rate of HIV/AIDS in Florida. “To make matters worse, our nation’s state AIDS Drug Assistance Programs (ADAPs) are in crisis. Due to a federal funding shortfall, state budget cuts, and an increase in the number of individuals who rely on state ADAPs for access to HIV-related medications and other vital services, nine states, including Florida, have had to create ADAP waiting lists and cut services. We must ensure that individuals living with HIV/AIDS have reliable access to the care they need and deserve. “There is, however, hope in the struggle to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS. Most recently, the Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis Initiative (iPrEx) released a study suggesting that the risk of HIV/AIDS infection in men may be significantly reduced through adherence to a daily antiretroviral regimen and safe sex practices. I applaud the pioneering work of the researchers involved with the Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis Initiative and look forward to future successful developments in efforts to prevent, reduce, and manage HIV/AIDS. “On this World AIDS Day, my thoughts and prayers are with those across this nation and around the world who live with HIV/AIDS every day. While we have certainly made great strides in the battle against HIV/AIDS, our work is far from over. As we approach the beginning of the 112th Congress, I stand committed to working with my colleagues to continue protecting the rights of HIV/AIDS patients and increasing access to testing and treatment.” Congressman Hastings has been a longtime advocate for the HIV/AIDS community, having introduced a resolution to recognize the life and legacy of AIDS activist Pedro Zamora and legislation to increase access to voluntary screening for HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases (STIs). In addition, Hastings continues to support robust funding for the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program, including the HIV/AIDS Treatment Modernization Act, the Minority HIV/AIDS Initiative, the National AIDS Strategy, and state ADAPs. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
12.01.2010	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) applauded the House of Representatives on joining the Senate in passing the Claims Settlement Act of 2010 (H.R. 4783) on November 30, 2010. The bill contains funding to implement the settlements of the Pigford II class action lawsuit involving past racial discrimination against African-American farmers by the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the Cobell v. Salazar class action lawsuit involving the mismanagement of trust funds for Native Americans by the U.S. Department of the Interior. The funding to implement the Pigford settlement is estimated to be $1.15 billion and to implement the Cobell settlement $3.41 billion. “African-American farmers and Native American trust holders are long overdue for the injustices they have endured,” said Hastings. “The passage of the Claims Settlement Act brings much-needed closure for these disenfranchised communities. “Justice has finally been delivered to these farmers by compensating them for past failures of the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the U.S. Department of the Interior. I commend the House of Representatives and the Senate for finally closing the door on a dishonorable chapter of our Nation’s history and rectifying past discriminatory treatment through justice and fair dealing.” As a lawyer and former judge, Hastings has been at the forefront of many of the most important judiciary issues facing the country and remains committed to fighting against injustice and racial discrimination. “While the passage of the Claims Settlement Act serves as a fervent display of our nation’s progress, we must continue to remedy past injustices by working tirelessly to resolve claims of past discrimination, including those made by women and Hispanic farmers in a expeditious and just manner.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
11.30.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) issued the following statement in response to the release of the Pentagon’s study entitled, “Report of the Comprehensive Review of the Issues Associated with a Repeal of ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell.’” The long-awaited report is the culmination of a near 10-month long study conducted by Army Gen. Carter F. Ham and Defense Department General Counsel Jeh C. Johnson, which included surveys from 115,000 service members and 44,200 military spouses, 72,000 unsolicited opinions made by service members to an online drop box, and comments from open meetings held on military bases. The study finds that approximately 70 percent of service members, including their families, support open service by gay and lesbian Americans and that ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ repeal would have positive, mixed, or no effects on their units’ ability to “work together to get the job done.” “The Pentagon’s comprehensive review of the 1993 ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ law confirms that it runs counter to the values that our Armed Forces embody and, indeed, our brave men and women in uniform. Furthermore, it dispels the argument that ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ repeal would harm military readiness and unit cohesion. After 17 years of discussion, the only thing left remaining to do is to repeal it. “Time is of the essence. In May, the House of Representatives passed bipartisan legislation to repeal ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell.’ I join President Obama, Defense Secretary Gates, and Adm. Mullen, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, in calling on the Senate to act as soon as possible in passing the legislation necessary to repeal ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ before the end of the year. “I look forward to ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ soon being repealed once and for all. Strong leadership has been, and remains, the key to successfully repealing ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ and replacing it with a policy of inclusion and non-discrimination. I am confident that, equipped with this new report, the Pentagon will finally be able to move forward with repeal in a manner that ensures our military’s readiness and our national security while meeting the needs of our service members and their families.” Congressman Hastings has been a leader in the fight to repeal ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,’ having introduced an amendment to ban the use of defense appropriations funds to investigate and discharge service members for telling their sexual orientation and legislation that would protect active-duty service members, regardless of their sexual orientation, who openly testify in Congressional hearings by expanding current whistleblower protections between members of the Armed Forces and Members of Congress. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### [Archived Blog Entries]
11.29.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced a resolution in support of the Republic of India gaining a permanent seat on the United Nations (UN) Security Council. An overwhelming majority of the United Nations General Assembly recently elected India to serve as the Asian regional representative to the Security Council. (Please find attached a copy of the resolution). “Addressing a joint session of India’s Parliament this past November 8, President Obama said that ‘the United States not only welcomes India as a rising global power, we fervently support it.’ And I could not agree more,” said Hastings. “As the international community looks to reform the policies and procedures of the Security Council, no nation deserves a seat at the table more than India.” India is the world’s most populous democracy and second most-populous nation. India has one of the fastest-growing economies in the world, enjoys the second-largest labor force, and is rapidly becoming a major hub for high-tech industry, telecommunications, and automobile manufacturing. As a major export/import nation, India is an important trading partner for dozens of countries around the world. “India’s position at the nexus of global security issues, from Pakistan and Kashmir to China and the Indian Ocean, makes its participation in international security decisions essential,” further noted Hastings. “India has thus demonstrated a commitment to international dialogue and constructive engagement, and, indeed, enjoys good relations with most countries around the world.” India regularly participates in numerous regional and international organizations, including the G20, the World Trade Organization, the East Asian Summit, and the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation. Additionally, India has provided tens of thousands of troops for dozens of UN peacekeeping missions around the world. “As a nation which has suffered more casualties from terrorism than almost any other, India’s commitment to effective counterterrorism measures is aligned with the United States’ goals, and India has proved an indispensible ally with respect to our efforts in South Asia,” said Hastings. “India is already a nation of great influence, respect, ambition, and ability, and a trusted member of the international community. “As President Obama and many other world leaders have pointed out, India deserves a permanent seat on a reformed Security Council, where its voice and clout will be a much-welcomed and much-needed addition to the global security regime.” Joining Hastings as original cosponsor is Representative Madeleine Z. Bordallo (GU). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### India_UN_Security_Council_Resolution.pdf
11.18.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced the Targeted Tax Lien Act of 2010. This legislation will amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide the IRS with the means to ensure that a notice of a federal tax lien is filed only when it would be in the best interest of both the IRS and taxpayer. (Please find attached a copy of the bill). “The Targeted Tax Lien Act ends the IRS’s current one-size-fits-all lien filing policy that, in the IRS Taxpayer Advocate’s own words, ‘circumvent the spirit of the law, fail to promote future tax compliance, and unnecessarily harm taxpayers’,” said Hastings. “A public filing of a notice of a federal tax lien often does little to increase the likelihood of collecting the tax liability, yet can impact a taxpayer’s credit and ability to obtain financing, find or retain a job, secure affordable housing or insurance, and ultimately, the taxpayer’s ability to pay the balance.” The Targeted Tax Lien Act requires an IRS supervisor to review and make an affirmative, specific finding on a case-by-case basis that a lien is warranted and not disproportionately harmful to the taxpayer. The bill provides a list of factors to consider, such as the amount due, the value of the property, a taxpayer’s compliance history, and extenuating circumstances. Furthermore, the IRS’s ability to collect tax liabilities will not diminish under these new policies. A recent IRS National Taxpayer Advocate study suggests that in most instances where the source of payment of a tax debt to the IRS is specified, more than 95 percent of all payments and more than 80 percent of all revenue collected did not result from a notice of lien filing and would have been collected even without the filing. Additionally, a separate analysis performed by the Advocate shows that only about five percent of all payment transactions and approximately twenty percent of the total dollars collected from these taxpayers are attributable to federal tax liens. “These results suggest that the IRS’s current use of liens may not be furthering revenue collection despite the impact liens have on taxpayers and their credit,” said Hastings. “The current automatic filing process can often result in the filing of a notice of a federal tax lien when another collection technique would have been more appropriate and effective. “Small businesses and middle class families are most often impacted by an erroneous filing, the Targeted Tax Lien Act of 2010 will allow the IRS to avoid unnecessary expenses, ensuring it uses its resources more efficiently,” Hastings further noted. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Targeted_Tax_Lien_Act_of_2010.pdf
10.25.2010	The North American Pollinator Protection Campaign (NAPPC) awarded Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) with the 2010 Pollinator Advocate Award at their 10th Annual Conference which was held in Washington, D.C. October 20-22, 2010. NAPPC promotes and protects pollinators and the agricultural and ecological services they provide. “Congressman Hastings richly deserves this recognition and thanks for his actions as an outstanding and effective pollinator champion,” said Laurie Davies Adams, executive director of the Pollinator Partnership, the nonprofit that manages NAPPC. “For example, he was directly responsible for getting first-ever conservation and research provisions for honey bees and native pollinators enacted as part of the farm bill, and has fought successfully for critical pollinator research funding in the annual appropriations process.” “I am humbled and honored to receive the Pollinator Advocate Award,” said Hastings. “I hope to continue to bring much-needed attention to the vital role pollinators play in our society. “Pollinators are crucial to the survival of our ecosystems as well as the sustainability and security of our food supply,” further noted Hastings. “Through the efforts of the Pollinator Partnership and NAPPC, we have seen great progress in regards to Colony Collapse Disorder and the health of honey bees. But the fight isn’t over. “We still need to increase awareness of all pollinators, including bees, bats, birds, and butterflies, in an effort to encourage the growth and survival of these important species.” In 2010, Congressman Hastings co-chaired and co-founded the bi-partisan Congressional Pollinator Protection Caucus. Additionally, Hastings introduced a resolution recognizing the important role pollinators play in sustaining the ecosystems and supporting the goals and ideals of National Pollinator Week, which passed the House of Representatives unanimously on July 1, 2010. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
09.29.2010	Last night, the House of Representatives passed the Veterans Benefits and Economic Welfare Improvement Act of 2010 (H.R. 6132). Included in this legislation is the Veterans Pensions Protection Act of 2010 (H.R. 4541), which was introduced by Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) and protects veterans from losing their pensions because they received payments to cover expenses incurred after an accident, theft, loss, or casualty loss. (Please find attached a copy of the bill). Hastings made the following statement on September 28, 2010 regarding this legislation: “Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 6132, the Veterans Benefits and Economic Welfare Improvement Act of 2010. This important legislation extends much-needed improvements to benefits and services for our nation’s veterans, who deserve the best we can offer. This legislation makes a number of critical corrections and updates to streamline services, expedite benefits, and ensure that veterans can take advantage of educational and vocational training opportunities to develop skills relevant to today’s job market. “I am extremely pleased that the underlying legislation includes my bill, H.R. 4541, the Veterans Pensions Protection Act of 2010. This legislation protects veterans from losing their pension benefits because they received payments to cover expenses incurred after an accident, theft, loss or casualty loss. “Under current law, if a veteran is seriously injured in an accident or is the victim of a theft and receives insurance compensation, he or she may lose their pension if the money exceeds the income limit set by the VA. This means that the law effectively punishes veterans when they suffer from such an accident or theft. “Such a tragedy happened to one of my constituents, a Navy veteran with muscular dystrophy who was hit by a truck when crossing the street in his wheelchair. His pension was abruptly cut off after he received an insurance settlement payment to cover medical expenses for himself and his service dog, and material expenses to replace his wheelchair. As a result, he could not cover his daily expenses and mortgage payments and almost lost his home. This is unacceptable. “The Veterans Pensions Protection Act exempts the reimbursement of expenses related to accidents, theft, loss or casualty loss from being included into the determination of a veteran’s income. “I want to thank Chairman Bob Filner as well as Subcommittee Chairman John Hall and Ranking Member Doug Lamborn for their support on this issue. “Madam Speaker, at a time when our nation’s servicemen and women are fighting two wars abroad and engaged in action in other parts of the world, we have a duty to our past, present, and future veterans to provide the very best in health care, job training, housing assistance, educational opportunities, and other services and benefits. We owe our veterans an enormous debt, and cannot thank them enough for their service. I urge my colleagues to give their unanimous support to this legislation.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Veterans_Benefits_and_Economic_Welfare_Improvement_Act.pdf
09.29.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced a House Concurrent Resolution expressing Congress’s support of the goals and ideals of National Homeless Persons’ Memorial Day. This year marks the 10th anniversary of National Homeless Persons’ Memorial Day, which is observed on December 21, 2010. (Please find attached a copy of this resolution). “Winter is a notoriously difficult time of year for homeless people,” said Hastings, who serves as the Co-Founder and Co-Chairman of the Congressional Caucus on Homelessness. “Furthermore, the spirit of the holiday season provides an opportunity for promoting compassion and concern for all, especially the homeless.” On or around the longest night of the year, December 21, the National Coalition for the Homeless and National Health Care for the Homeless Council hold memorial services for homeless individuals who have died from causes related to their homelessness. Throughout the state of Florida, this important day is being recognized, along with over 200 other local municipalities, organizations, and statewide organizations throughout the United States. With the support of the National Coalition for the Homeless, National Consumer Advisory Board, and National Health Care for the Homeless Council; National Homeless Persons' Memorial Day brings attention to the tragedy of homelessness. “Homelessness, however, is not just a local issue; it is a national problem that beckons national attention,” said Hastings. Hastings’ resolution encourages state and local governments, the President, media, and the general public to support the goals and ideals of National Homeless Persons’ Memorial Day as well as reaffirms our country’s commitment to helping those less fortunate members of society and acknowledges the efforts of those who currently are. “A national memorial day will ensure that we keep the problem in perspective,” further noted Hastings. “Through all the statistics on homelessness, it’s easy to forget that numbers correspond to actual individuals with lives and families. “We must remember their lives—men, women, and children—and we must remember why they died.” Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors are (15) Representatives Eddie Bernice Johnson, Judy Biggert, Kathy Castor, Steve Cohen, John Conyers, Jr., Elijah E. Cummings, Geoff Davis, Ted Deutch, Barney Frank, Raúl M. Grijalva, Luis V. Gutiérrez, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Chellie Pingree, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, and Lynn Woolsey. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### National_Homeless_Persons_Memorial_Day_Resolution.pdf
09.29.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced a resolution supporting the goals and ideals of the Decade of Action for Road Safety. This resolution expresses the House of Representatives’ support for the Decade of Action and encourages the federal government to support efforts to reduce road fatalities, preventing needless deaths and injuries both here at home and around the world. (Please find attached a copy of the resolution). “This is a critically important issue, as millions of people in every corner of the globe are affected by traffic accidents, inadequate public policies, and underdeveloped or neglected transportation infrastructure,” said Hastings. “The United States can take the lead in furthering the goals of the Decade of Action declared by the United Nations General Assembly, saving millions of lives and billions of dollars.” The leading cause of death for people ages 5 to 29 is not disease or war but road crashes. Nearly 1.3 million people are killed in road crashes every year and another twenty to fifty million are injured in traffic accidents. On average, over 1,000 people under the age of 25 die every single day on the world’s roads. And these numbers are going up dramatically. “The world cannot afford such needless, heartbreaking losses,” further noted Hastings. “In addition to the catastrophic human costs – not only the lives lost but amongst their friends and families as well – road crashes cost the global community over $518 billion a year, an enormous sum when you consider that many of the countries most plagued by road crashes are underdeveloped or developing nations. “The global community must build on the initial, important steps already taken to enhance international cooperation to improve road safety.” In November 2009, the Moscow Declaration, signed by 150 countries, encouraged the establishment of a Decade of Action for Road Safety from 2011 to 2020, and laid the foundation for United Nations General Assembly Resolution 64/255 adopted in March 2010. This U.N. resolution recognizes that the devastation caused by road crashes negatively impacts the social, economic, and health targets of the Millennium Development Goals and reaffirms the importance of international collaboration during the Decade of Action. “It is critical that the nations of the world work together to stabilize and reduce traffic fatalities by taking advantage of opportunities at the global, national, regional, and local level,” said Hastings. “The United States can set an example for the rest of the world by improving transportation management, infrastructure, vehicle safety, education, and post-crash care and rehabilitation here at home. “We must continue to support public policies designed to reduce key risk factors like speeding, drunk driving, distracted driving, and the failure of many Americans to use seat belts, child restraints, and other safety devices.” Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors of this resolution are Representatives Chris Van Hollen (MD) and Dan Burton (IN). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Decade_of_Action_for_Road_Safety_Resolution_xml.pdf
09.28.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced the Haitian Educational Empowerment Act of 2010. This legislation will allow Haitian students who have had their studies disrupted as a result of the January 12, 2010 earthquake to complete their education at a university in the United States. It will also provide grants to American universities that have taken in Haitian students so that these schools can provide necessary support services. (Please find attached a copy of the bill). “In addition to the massive physical devastation and loss of human life, the earthquake also dealt a devastating blow to Haiti’s already struggling higher education sector,” said Hastings. “With 87 percent of Haiti’s universities located in the affected region, the earthquake leveled many university buildings and killed scores of students and academics. The State University of Haiti, the nation’s largest, saw 80 percent of its buildings destroyed.” Hastings’ legislation allows these students to finish their studies while requiring them to return to the island upon completion to put their education to work. “At a time of extreme instability and crisis, the United States must do all within its power to help Haiti rebuild from this current tragedy,” further noted Hastings. “However, this recovery cannot be sustainable if Haitians lack the necessary skills to participate in the process. “While investments are made to rebuild and expand Haiti’s university system, it would be counterproductive if, in the meantime, we allow Haiti to fall even further behind in educational attainment,” said Hastings. “My legislation will not only provide immediate relief to those struggling students who saw their hopes squandered on January 12, but will also help ensure a more robust, long-term recovery.” Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors are (4) Representatives Marcia L. Fudge (OH), Jesse L. Jackson, Jr. (IL), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), and Charles B. Rangel (NY). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Haitian_Educational_Empowerment_Act.pdf
09.27.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) issued the following statement on the tragic murder-suicide in Riviera Beach that took place Sunday night: “I am deeply saddened by the tragedy that took place last night. The loss of so many young lives is heartbreaking. “My thoughts and prayers are with the surviving and injured children and I extend my deepest sympathies to the family and friends of the victims. “Their loss is one that can never be made right but we must come together as a community to ensure that this family has the support it needs to begin to heal.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
09.23.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP) funding crisis. Due to a federal funding shortfall, state budget cuts, and an increase in the number of individuals who rely on state ADAPs for HIV-related medications, nine states, including Florida, have had to create ADAP waiting lists and cut services. State ADAPs are funded through the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program, which was established in 1990 to help provide health care services to low-income individuals living with HIV/AIDS in the United States. It currently serves more than half a million people, many of whom are uninsured and the majority of whom are underinsured. On September 22, Hastings sent a letter to Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, and Majority Whip James E. Clyburn calling on the House of Representatives to bring an emergency supplemental of $25 million to the floor for a vote as soon as possible to provide relief to state ADAPs, and for Congress as a whole to take swift and meaningful action to ensure that low-income, uninsured, and underinsured people living with HIV/AIDS have reliable access to their lifesaving medications. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter.) “Our nation’s AIDS Drug Assistance Programs are experiencing a funding crisis. Thousands of our most vulnerable citizens are counting on Congress to ensure that they have access to the medications they need to stay alive. “To make matters worse, the Census Bureau reports that the number of uninsured Americans rose sharply last year to an all-time high of 50.7 million due to the difficult economy. It is projected that tens of thousands more individuals will soon require the vital services that state ADAPs provide to low-income, uninsured, and underinsured individuals living with HIV/AIDS. “This issue hits close to home. Currently, of the 3,214 individuals on ADAP waiting lists, Florida has 1,712. This is outrageous! “Congress must increase its commitment to state ADAPs while continuing to fund other AIDS programs. This problem is not going away; we need a long-term solution until the Affordable Care Act takes full effect in 2014. “I urge the House to bring an emergency supplemental of $25 million to the floor for a vote as soon as possible to provide relief to state ADAPs.” Congressman Hastings has been a longtime advocate for the HIV/AIDS community, having introduced a resolution to recognize the life and legacy of AIDS activist Pedro Zamora and legislation to increase access to voluntary screening for HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases (STIs). In addition, Hastings continues to support robust funding for the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program, including the HIV/AIDS Treatment Modernization Act, the Minority HIV/AIDS Initiative, and the National AIDS Strategy. The text of Representative Hastings’ letter follows: September 22, 2010 The Honorable Nancy PelosiSpeaker of the HouseH-232, The CapitolWashington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Steny Hoyer House Majority Leader H-107, The Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable James E. ClyburnHouse Majority WhipH-329, The CapitolWashington, D.C. 20515 Dear Speaker Pelosi, Majority Leader Hoyer, and Majority Whip Clyburn: I write to bring to your attention an urgent matter that requires immediate consideration. Our nation’s AIDS Drug Assistance Programs (ADAPs) are experiencing a funding crisis. With the uninsured rate at a record high due to the difficult economy; a growing number of individuals living with HIV/AIDS who rely on state ADAPs for access to treatment and other services; stagnant federal funding; and state budget cuts; thousands of Americans are counting on Congress to adequately and appropriately fund state ADAPs and thereby ensure that they have reliable access to the medications they need to stay alive. As you know, state ADAPs are funded through the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program, which was established in 1990 to help provide health care services to some of our nation’s most vulnerable citizens. It currently serves more than half a million low-income people living with HIV/AIDS in the United States, many of whom are uninsured and the majority of whom are underinsured. However, due to a federal funding shortfall, state budget cuts, and an increase in the number of individuals who rely on state ADAPs for HIV-related medications, nine states, including Florida, have had to create ADAP waiting lists and cut services by reducing eligibility criteria, changing formularies, and closing enrollment. Furthermore, many other states have established various cost containment measures, which include dropping current beneficiaries from their programs and removing mental health drugs and medications for co-occurring conditions such as heart disease and diabetes. This poses a significant challenge to people living with HIV/AIDS who rely on state ADAPs to access mental health drugs, as well as threatens adherence to their current regimens. To make matters worse, according to recent data released by the Census Bureau, the number of uninsured Americans rose sharply last year to an all-time high of 50.7 million due to the difficult economy. It is projected that tens of thousands more individuals will soon require the vital services that state ADAPs provide. This issue hits close to home. Currently, of the 3,214 individuals on ADAP waiting lists, Florida has 1,712 of them. That is, 53 percent of the poorest people in our nation who are waiting for AIDS medications are living in one state. This is outrageous, especially given that the actual number of individuals requiring access to care nationwide is much higher. The actual number of people not receiving care and ineligible for ADAPs is unknown. States that have reduced their eligibility requirements may have decreased their waiting lists, but states are not tracking how many individuals are now ineligible. It is clear that Congress must do more and work together with states and communities to address this national crisis. While President Obama has provided $25 million to states that have been hit hardest, this is simply not enough. Congress must increase its commitment to state ADAPs while continuing to fund other AIDS programs. This problem is not going away; we need a long-term solution to ensure that these individuals have access to the care they need until the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act takes full effect in 2014. Madam Speaker, Majority Leader Hoyer, and Majority Whip Clyburn, it is my sincere hope that Congress will take swift and meaningful action to ensure that low-income, uninsured, and underinsured people living with AIDS have access to their lifesaving and sustaining medications. To that end, I urge you to bring an emergency supplemental of $25 million to the floor for a vote as soon as possible before the General Election on November 2, 2010, to provide relief to state ADAPs. I appreciate your support and look forward to working together with you to pass this crucial legislation. Sincerely, Alcee L. HastingsMember of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### ALH_Letter_to_Speaker_Pelosi_Majority_Leader_Hoyer_and_Majority_Whip_Clyburn_on_ADAP_-_09_22_10.pdf
09.23.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced a resolution to raise hypertension awareness and help reverse its prevalence through education, further research, and efforts to reduce the excess salt content in foods. Commonly known as high blood pressure, hypertension is the most frequently diagnosed chronic health condition in the United States, afflicting approximately 74.5 million people. In addition, hypertension is directly and indirectly responsible for tens of thousands of deaths in the United States each year, and its prevalence is expected to grow due to a large aging population and high rates of obesity and diabetes. (Please find attached a copy of the resolution.) “High blood pressure is a serious health concern facing our communities and nation as a whole. About one out of three adults in the United States is hypertensive. Furthermore, about one in four adults is pre-hypertensive, which means that they are at greater risk for developing hypertension. “Hypertension is a ‘silent killer’ because there are often no symptoms that indicate that an individual's blood pressure has reached a deadly level. In fact, more than one out of five individuals is unaware that they have high blood pressure. This is unacceptable. “Due to various social, cultural, and environmental factors, certain communities have disproportionately high rates of hypertension and varying levels of awareness, treatment, and control. In particular, individuals living in the Southeast and African Americans have the highest prevalence of hypertension in the United States, and are more likely to develop it at earlier ages, develop cardiovascular disease, and die from hypertension or hypertension-related illnesses. “Fortunately, through education, healthy lifestyle habits, advances in medical science, research, and smart health care policy, we can begin to reverse these alarming trends. According to a study by the American Medical Association, 150,000 lives could be saved each year if the sodium content in processed foods and restaurant foods were decreased by 50 percent. “I remain committed to supporting national, state, and community efforts to address potentially deadly health conditions like hypertension and to combating health disparities. To that end, we must set mandatory national standards for sodium content in foods, improve access to affordable, healthy foods for all Americans, and ensure that consumers have the information they need to make informed decisions about their food purchases.” Joining Congressman Hastings as original co-sponsors of the resolution are Representatives (13): Joe Baca (D-CA), Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA), Madeleine Z. Bordallo (D-GU), Corrine Brown (D-FL), Donna M. Christensen (D-VI), Wm. Lacy Clay (D-MO), Marcia Fudge (D-OH), Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ), Rubén Hinojosa (D-TX), Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), Gregory Meeks (D-NY), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), and Charles B. Rangel (D-NY). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Congressman_Alcee_L__Hastings_-_Hypertension_Awareness_Resolution_-_09_23_10.pdf
09.22.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced the American Infrastructure Investment Act. Joining Hastings in introducing the legislation are Representatives Ron Klein (FL-22) and Theodore E. Deutch (FL-19). This legislation amends the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to encourage an increase of investment in infrastructure, and for other purposes. (Please see attached a copy of the bill). “In tough economic times, it is important to invest in areas which reap the most benefit,” said Hastings. “Infrastructure investments do just that.” It has been found that for every $1 billion invested in infrastructure, 18,000 jobs are supported nationwide. The American Infrastructure Investment Act extends a number of successful job creation programs that are set to expire. By providing federal support for private sector infrastructure investment, this legislation creates real jobs through investment in long-term sustainable economic development. These infrastructure investment programs are used to fund the construction of projects such as bridges, roads, schools and hospitals. “Millions of Americans still cannot find work,” said Hastings. “It is incentives like this that will help our nation get the economy back on track and restore employment levels to what they once were. “These are the very kinds of successful private investment incentive programs that the government should sponsor to kick-start the economy,” further noted Hastings. “Make no mistake about it – job creation is my number one priority. I urge my colleagues to support this legislation and help create jobs that are desperately needed now.” "This is about jobs, jobs, jobs," Klein said. "Our top priority is creating jobs in South Florida, because that will be the engine of our economic recovery. I strongly support this legislation as a way to spur private investment in our community and create new jobs." "The construction industry has always been vital to South Florida's economy,” said Deutch. “With one out of four construction workers unemployed, encouraging commercial development and investments in infrastructure is a critical element of America's economic recovery. Extending the Build America Bonds program will help Palm Beach County and local governments across America finance projects that will require hiring new workers in construction, private contracting, engineering, and other fields. I am pleased to join Reps. Hastings and Klein to introduce legislation that will create new jobs and ultimately, foster much-needed economic growth in South Florida." Some of the programs this bill would extend include Build America Bonds, Recovery Zone Bonds, and the New Market Tax Credit programs. The Build America Bonds program would be extended through 2012 and has allowed State and local governments to invest more than $100 billion in infrastructure projects nationwide and has supported more than 1.7 million jobs nationwide. The bill would extend the Recovery Zone Bonds program through 2011, which helps local municipalities raise more than $25 billion of capital for infrastructure and economic development projects and supports more than 450,000 jobs nationwide. The New Market Tax Credit AMT Offset would also be extended through 2011. Through this program, the Treasury Department has made 495 awards totaling $26 billion in allocation authority for economic development and revitalization efforts in low-income communities. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### American_Infrastructure_Investment_Act.pdf
09.22.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement recognizing Ms. Essie “Big Mama” Reed as a Hastings’ Hero for her outstanding contributions to the Ft. Lauderdale community: “Big Mama stands apart as an exemplary citizen and living testimony to compassion and generosity. “Big Mama’s impact on Ft. Lauderdale began in 1988. When her youngest son was just a month old, Big Mama’s husband abandoned the family, leaving them homeless. For the next three years, Big Mama and her three sons slept on the concrete floor of the fish market she owned. Despite being destitute and unable to provide her sons with such basic things as school supplies, Big Mama and her boys regularly prayed after school at the Royal Assembly Church. “It is her triumph over personal adversity that inspired Big Mama to begin a crusade of personal outreach. Realizing how fortunate she was to have caring neighbors who provided her and her sons with basic needs, Big Mama decided to give back by helping at-risk youth avoid the common street predators of drugs, gangs, and prostitution. “In the early 1990s, Big Mama solidified a values-based approach that, when coupled with her uncommon bravery in the face of long odds, has helped keep over 1,300 area youth on a promising path. “Big Mama’s contribution has been particularly meaningful to the Ft. Lauderdale School System. With scores of students who come from disadvantaged backgrounds, Big Mama provides personal afterschool care and guidance for students who might not get the attention they need at home. Big Mama also holds popular “shut-ins” four times a year at her church, where local school children are exposed to a “selfless passion for excellence in education and social advancement” through self-reliance. All this prompted Rhoda Gawlowski, assistant principal at New River Middle School, to say of Big Mama: ‘I have never, ever met a person like her. She helps everyone in our school: the children, the parents, members of the community. I don't know how she does it, but she manages to find time to spend with every student who seeks her out.’ “Big Mama’s commitment to service, however, is not limited to Ft. Lauderdale schools. After Hurricane Wilma devastated Florida in 2005, leaving residents without power and food, Big Mama made sure everybody had something to eat. And I mean everybody. Working together with local leaders, Big Mama was able to secure enough donations to personally cook for 1,000 low-income residents in a week. All of this from a woman who recently faced her second bout with homelessness because her house – what people in Ft. Lauderdale refer to as a sanctuary – did not meet local code with its leaky roof covered, in some parts, with a plastic tarp. “Big Mama also founded the Team of Life, a Ft. Lauderdale nonprofit, to allow her personal outreach efforts to reach even more people in her community. The organization regularly organizes charitable drives during the holiday and back-to-school seasons with great success. In addition to an annual turkey drive that collects turkeys for needy families – 20,000 in 2009 alone – so that they may enjoy the Thanksgiving holiday, Big Mama organizes an annual health drive to immunize local children whose families otherwise could not afford such vital care. “Through it all, Big Mama has never asked for recognition. All she wants is for Ft. Lauderdale children to experience the reality of a better tomorrow. Because of such uncommon grace, compassion, and generosity, I am proud to recognize Ms. Essie “Big Mama” Reed as a true American hero.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
09.20.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) congratulated Evan Goldman of Ft. Lauderdale, FL on receiving the 2010 Angels in Adoption Award. Hastings nominated Goldman for the award, which is given through the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI) to an individual, couple or organization that has made extraordinary contributions on behalf of children in need of homes. “I was proud to nominate Evan Goldman for the 2010 Angels in Adoption Award and am thrilled to see him recognized with this honor,” said Hastings. “Evan has a heart of gold and gives selflessly to the children and youth of South Florida.” Goldman currently works as the Senior Government and Public Affairs Specialist for the Children’s Services Council of Broward County, which provides leadership, advocacy, and funding for services for and on behalf of children. He is also Team Leader of the Broward Days’ Children's Issues Team, which addresses critical issues affecting thousands of at-risk children in our community and throughout the state. His team examines legislation related to family support services, kinship care, improvements to Florida’s dependency system, support for children with special needs, early childhood issues, immigrant children and other crucial issues affecting our most vulnerable population. “Evan is a truly selfless man who is known throughout South Florida for zealously advocating on behalf of Florida’s marginalized youth,” further noted Hastings. “He is a hero and role model to everyone who knows him and he is most deserving of the Angels in Adoption Award. “Evan’s commitment to ensuring all children of Broward County realize their full potential, their hopes and their dreams is unparalleled and I cannot think of anyone more deserving of this honor.” Goldman will join other 2010 Angels in Adoption winners in traveling to Washington, D.C. on October 4-6, where they will participate in training events, celebrate their achievements, and bring much-needed attention to the fostering and adoption processes. For more information on Angels in Adoption, please visit: www.angelsinadoption.org. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
09.15.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced a resolution recognizing the important role zoos, aquariums, and other wildlife organizations have played in the response efforts in the Gulf region following the Deepwater Horizon oil spill. (Please see attached a copy of the resolution). “Even in difficult economic times, zoos, aquariums, and other wildlife institutions have provided valuable staff and resources for rescue and rehabilitation efforts in the Gulf region,” said Hastings. “These organizations deserve praise and thanks for their dedication and selfless contributions.” The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service have identified zoos and aquariums as important partners in the rescue and rehabilitation efforts of the wildlife impacted by the oil spill. Many of these institutions already have in place established programs for animal rescue and rehabilitation as well as the resources needed to address short-term and long-term impacts of the oil spill on animals and habitats in the Gulf of Mexico region. “The unique expertise of the professionals at zoos and aquariums is invaluable to responding to environmental disasters like that in the Gulf,” said Hastings. “Additionally, their contributions to conservation programs, science education, and community development deserve our continued support and appreciation.” The Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA) is a nonprofit organization founded in 1924 which is dedicated to advancing the work of zoos and aquariums in the areas of conservation, education, science, and recreation. There are over 200 AZA-accredited zoos and aquariums which are found in 46 states, where they support more than 126,000 jobs and attract 180 million visitors annually. “I am proud to have the Palm Beach Zoo, an AZA-accredited institution, in my district," further noted Hastings. “The Palm Beach Zoo actively promotes conservation and education programs, including the incorporation of Species Survival Plans and Population Management Plans through the AZA.” Joining Hastings as original co-sponsor of this resolution are Representatives Spencer Bachus (AL-06), Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Anh “Joseph” Cao (LA-02), Kathy Castor (FL-11), Susan A. Davis (CA-53), Theodore E. Deutch (FL-19), John Lewis (GA-05), Daniel Lipinski (IL-03) and Bill Posey (FL-15). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Zoo_and_Aquarium_Resolution.pdf
09.10.2010	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in recognition of the 9th anniversary of 9/11: “Perhaps the most remarkable outcome of the September 11 attacks was the way our country responded with fervent unity. A day of unimaginable horror was met with levels of solidarity experienced only a few times in American history. President Bush’s approval rating soared overnight, sales of American flags sky-rocketed, and the country coalesced around an adopted national motto: “United We Stand.” As President Bush addressed the country at a national prayer service only four days after the attacks, he invoked FDR, reminding the nation that, “today we feel the warm courage of national unity. “The national unity that was so visible in the days after the attacks, however, has faded. As America marks the ninth anniversary of the 9/11 attacks, the national mood surrounding the memory of September 11 seems more acrimonious than in previous years. Americans stand divided over precisely who – or what – was responsible for 9/11: was it al Qaeda or Islam? “This fundamental question driving the bitterness that defines the latest anniversary of 9/11 is evident in nearly every corner of America. From the debates over the proposed Islamic cultural centers in Lower Manhattan and Murfreesboro, Tennessee, to misinformed cable news and radio personalities streaming into living rooms across America, Americans increasingly identify Islam, not al Qaeda, as 9/11’s primary culprit. “The rancor amplifying the debate over the proposed Islamic cultural centers, however, is a symptom of America’s disunity regarding the memory of September 11 rather than its cause. On the ninth anniversary of 9/11, the country’s division is motivated by an anxiety over a lack of tangible progress in our two-front mission to punish those who attacked us. Americans can see signs of progress in Iraq and, more fleetingly, in Afghanistan, but we cannot feel them. “Prior to 9/11, radical Islam was an afterthought for most Americans. Even after the United States weathered the al Qaeda-directed attacks on our embassies in Kenya and Tanzania and the bombing of the USS Cole, Americans remained largely inattentive to this looming threat. Now that radical Islam is a front-burner issue for the majority of the country, Americans are increasingly fearful of an unseen, yet seemingly omnipresent enemy that lurks in the netherworld of Afghanistan’s mountainous border shared with Pakistan’s lawless tribal regions. “Adding to our collective anxiety is the expansion of our enemy’s composition. In the days after 9/11, newspapers across the country ran headlines attributing the attacks to al Qaeda and Osama Bin Laden. Nine years on, with al Qaeda reportedly marginalized, newspapers and cable news outlets are filled with headlines detailing indiscriminate suicide bombings and improvised explosive attacks from an unidentifiable perpetrator. Was it the Taliban? Al Qaeda? Lashkar-e-Tayyiba? It seems that the number of terrorist groups America must contain has only increased since our invasions of Iraq and Afghanistan. “After America responded to 9/11 by invading Afghanistan in 2001, it entered the region from which a majority of radical Islamic terror emanated, and our view of the enemy devolved. As more terrorist groups reared their ugly heads – even after our military assured us that al Qaeda was “on the run” – we looked for a common tie to make this violence easier to understand. Of course the common thread among these terror groups was their devotion to a radical interpretation of Islam, and, as a result, Americans began to see Islam not as a religion of peace as President Bush and other politicians told us, but as a religion of terror. “This brings us to 2010. Americans’ increasing suspicion of Islam as a promoter of violence has divided the country on what should be its most united moment. Islam, and those who practice the religion, is being marginalized not by our laws, but by our culture. A majority of the country – 61 percent according to a recent Time poll – is opposed to the proposed Islamic cultural center in Lower Manhattan. A majority of the country, however, knows the issue only as the “mosque at Ground Zero,” a distortion of the facts considering that the proposed site is neither a mosque nor exactly located at Ground Zero. “A fear of Islam has even affected American politics. As President Obama’s popularity has dipped, the number of Americans who incorrectly believe he is a Muslim has grown. In January 2009, when President Obama assumed office, his approval rating stood at 65 percent, and just 11 percent of the country thought he was a Muslim. Today, President Obama’s job approval rating hovers at 45 percent, while the number of Americans who believe he is a Muslim has climbed to 24 percent. With the dissatisfaction over the proposed Islamic cultural centers in Lower Manhattan and Murfreesboro, and the growing number of Americans who incorrectly believe their President is a Muslim, it is clear Americans are letting a growing fear of Islam – driven by a real anxiety over a lack of tangible success in Iraq and Afghanistan – get to them. “Americans were once united in their reaction to 9/11, but are now divided over how to respond. With America ending its combat mission in Iraq and its apparent steadfast commitment to withdraw its troops from Afghanistan in 2011, it is clear that the American military is not the panacea that we are desperately seeking in our battle against radical Islamic terror. Instead, a greater sense of national cohesion is needed to beat back the will of our enemy. On this anniversary of 9/11, it is time for America to reach backward and recall the spirit of unity that was so pronounced on September 12 and move beyond our growing fears.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
09.10.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) issued the following statement in response to the ruling yesterday by U.S. District Judge Virginia A. Phillips regarding ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell.’ In Log Cabin Republicans v. the United States of America, the California judge declared that the 1993 law banning open service by gay and lesbian Americans is unconstitutional, violating the First and Fifth Amendments. “Judge Phillips’ historic ruling is yet further affirmation that ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ is both legally and militarily indefensible. As Judge Phillips concluded, ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ threatens our national security and impedes military readiness and unit cohesion. The majority of Americans agree that ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ has no relevance in 2010. “In May, the House of Representatives passed bipartisan legislation to repeal ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell.’ I strongly urge the Senate to pass the National Defense Authorization Act when it reconvenes in September, which will allow the Pentagon to move forward with implementing ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ repeal and replacing it with a policy of inclusion and non-discrimination. “I applaud Judge Phillips and the Log Cabin Republicans for standing up for what is right for our country and military. As Judge Phillips awaits the submission of a proposed injunction by the Log Cabin Republicans to nullify ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,’ we must also continue to push for legislative repeal of this discriminatory policy. The fact of the matter is, as long as ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ remains law, our brave servicemen and women are put at unnecessary risk. I remain committed to working together with President Obama, Secretary Gates, and my colleagues in Congress in repealing ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ once and for all.” Congressman Hastings has been a leader in the fight to repeal ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,’ having introduced an amendment to ban the use of defense appropriations funds to investigate and discharge service members for telling their sexual orientation and legislation that would protect active-duty service members, regardless of their sexual orientation, who openly testify in Congressional hearings by expanding current whistleblower protections between members of the Armed Forces and Members of Congress. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
09.08.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) condemned the plan by the Dove World Outreach Center in Gainesville, Florida to burn copies of the Quran to mark the 9th anniversary of the terrorist attacks on September 11th: “The downright racism behind this hate-filled organization’s threat to burn copies of the Quran is disgraceful to American values. The issue here is not our coveted right of free speech; the issue is American values. Hate is hate and this is free speech running amuck. It is irresponsible to hide behind the First Amendment and knowingly put our U.S. military in harm’s way. “Not only do I condemn these proposed actions for their complete disrespect to the Islamic religion, but I condemn these actions for their potential to incite further violence and hate crimes. The powerfully offensive images of burning the Islamic holy book will undoubtedly cause anger and riots, and are sure to be used by extremists to build anti-American sentiment around the world, potentially putting our men and women in uniform in jeopardy. “The actions of a small group of people can skew the image of America into a country breeding hate and intolerance. In 1821, the German philosopher Heinrich Heine famously foreshadowed the horrors of the Nazi regime in the 20th Century: ‘Where they burn books, they will ultimately also burn people.’ Should this event take place this weekend, it has the potential to create unintentional consequences and portray a false image that our country’s values are not what they once were. “The idea that this in some way will memorialize the September 11th terrorist attacks is misguided. Those attacks showed us the damage that hate can cause. You cannot fight fire with fire, nor hate with hate. If this hate-filled organization makes the mistake of following through with this threat to burn copies of the Quran, I hope my colleagues in Congress will join me in condemning this event. I have always dedicated my efforts to combating religious intolerance, including anti-Semitism and anti-Islamic rhetoric. There is no excuse for such hateful behavior and I will continue to work toward eradicating all forms of hatred wherever it occurs.” If the event moves forward this weekend, Hastings plans to introduce a resolution next week condemning the burning of the copies of the Quran by the Dove World Outreach Center on September 11th as well as the associated anti-Islamic bigotry it represents. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
09.08.2010	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in recognition of the Jewish holiday Rosh Hashanah, which begins at sundown tonight: “As Rosh Hashanah begins, I would like to extend my warmest wishes to my friends in the Jewish community as they welcome in the New Year. It is a time for reflection and hope for all the coming year has to bring. May we all take this opportunity for introspective thought and recommit ourselves to working together for the betterment of our nation and world. Though diverse in our beliefs, together we can all respect our individual commitments to faith and join in celebrating a new start towards a better future. Shana Tova.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
08.26.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) recognized the 90th anniversary of the adoption of the 19th Amendment: “Every year, our country marks August 26th as ‘Women’s Equality Day.’ On the 90th anniversary of the women’s suffrage movement's great victory, we commemorate the countless suffragettes and pioneers whose courageous and persistent struggle on behalf of women’s rights resulted in securing civil rights and political independence for American women. The courage, determination, and tenacity of the remarkable tens of thousands women who united across the country to win the right to vote should be recognized and revered today.” “These brave women waged a non-violent campaign for 72 years and, as someone who has fought for civil rights my entire life, I am proud to pay my respects today to the mothers, daughters, grandmothers, and sisters for their historical achievement.” “In the years since the ratification of the 19th Amendment, critical milestones for women’s equality have been reached. Today, we have women serving at every level of government, including a woman as Speaker of the House and a woman as our country’s Secretary of State, as well as three women justices sitting on the United States Supreme Court. These are but a few examples of the important strides we have made in the fight for gender equality in our country. On this day, we recommit ourselves to continue moving forward together in the name of social and political equality for all Americans.” On August 26, 1920, the 19th Amendment, guaranteeing women the right to vote, was formally certified by proclamation of Secretary of State Bainbridge Colby. The text of the amendment reads: "The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of sex" and "Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
08.11.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) responded to Florida Attorney General Bill McCollum’s proposed immigration reform plan. The plan would have similar requirements as the controversial immigration law in Arizona. “This is a divisive plan that only polarizes the state of Florida,” said Hastings. “The Attorney General’s proposal is a clear political stunt, which raises questions as to his true motivation for delving into the issues surrounding immigration.” “And why now?” asked Hastings. “Why add fat to the fire?” “Our nation’s immigration system is in desperate need of reform, but enacting patchwork policies that conflict with existing federal laws and could lead to profiling and discrimination of all Floridians is not the answer,” said Hastings. “I am a proud cosponsor of comprehensive immigration reform legislation in the House and will continue to urge House leadership and our President to bring this to the forefront of our legislative agenda.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
07.30.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced a resolution recognizing the Black Barbershop Health Outreach Program, a unique initiative that seeks to improve health outcomes in black communities across the country through education, community involvement, research, and culturally relevant strategies. (Please find attached a copy of the resolution.) In 2007, the Diabetic Amputation Prevention Foundation launched the Black Barbershop Health Outreach Program in an effort to increase public awareness about cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and hypertension among black men by partnering with black-owned barbershops, as well as local leaders, facilities, and organizations, to provide culturally specific education and health services to black men. “The Black Barbershop Health Outreach Program empowers individuals to take control of their health and to become informed health advocates in their communities,” said Hastings. Due to various factors, including inadequate access to quality health care services, African American men suffer from disproportionately high rates of hypertension, diabetes, and other health conditions that are largely preventable and manageable. “The black barbershop is an institution in the African American community, providing a trusted and familiar place for many black men to receive health information and services that they would otherwise not have access to,” further noted Hastings. To date, the Black Barbershop Health Outreach Program has screened over 10,000 men in 230 black-owned barbershops for diabetes, hypertension, and prostate cancer across the country. The project’s organizers plan to screen 20,000 men in 2010 and 500,000 men by 2012. Furthermore, the Black Barbershop Health Program will also target black-owned beauty shops to reach black women. “I commend the Black Barbershop Health Outreach Program for its important work in improving community health and remain committed to supporting health legislation and other initiatives in the fight against racial health disparities.” For more information on the Black Barbershop Health Outreach Program, please visit its official Web site at (http://www.blackbarbershop.org/). Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors of the resolution are Representatives (16): Corrine Brown (D-FL), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Laura Richardson (D-CA), Donald M. Payne (D-NJ), Donna Christensen (D-VI), Bobby Rush (D-IL), Bennie Thompson (D-MS), Donna Edwards (D-MD), Hank Johnson (D-GA), Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Edolphus Towns (D-NY), Kendrick Meek (D-FL), Charles Rangel (D-NY), Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), Danny Davis (D-IL), and Al Green (D-TX). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Black_Barbershop_Health_Outreach_Program_Resolution.pdf
07.30.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) issued the following statement in recognition of the 45th anniversary of Medicare and Medicaid being signed into law: “Compared to a time when only about half of our nation’s seniors had health insurance, Medicare now serves approximately one in seven Americans and virtually all of the population aged 65 and older. “However, our job is far from over. It is imperative that we continue to protect and improve Medicare so that we can fulfill our promise of providing older and disabled Americans with the benefits that they need and deserve. “In March, I proudly voted in favor of the Affordable Care Act, which makes numerous changes to Medicare to ensure its ability to provide affordable and quality health care to our nation’s most vulnerable citizens. The Affordable Care Act will make it easier for seniors to afford seeing their doctors, fill their prescriptions, and provide them with free preventative screenings and tests. Furthermore, it will close the infamous Medicare “doughnut hole,” helps middle-class families afford long-term care, strengthens the fiscal solvency of the Medicare Trust Fund, and much, much more. “Medicare is one of our nation’s great health care success stories. As we celebrate 45 years of health care coverage for the hundreds of millions of Americans who have benefitted from Medicare, we must not forget our commitment to this and future generations by ensuring its preservation and continued improvement. This is our legacy.” On July 30, 1965, President Lyndon B. Johnson signed into law the Social Security Amendments of 1965, thereby establishing the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Forty-five years later, Medicare provides health care coverage to an estimated 39 million seniors and 8 million disabled persons. In addition, Medicaid provides primary and acute medical services, as well as long-term care, to more than 68 million people. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
07.29.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced a resolution supporting the goals and ideals of Jubilee Day. Fisk University in Nashville, Tennessee celebrates Jubilee Day annually on October 6. (Please find attached a copy of the resolution). “Fisk has educated countless intellectual, artistic, and civic leaders, and has played a pivotal role in the advancement of education for African-American students,” Hastings stated. “None of its accomplishments would have been possible without the talents and sacrifices of that first group of nine students who not only kept Fisk University from closing, but also introduced the world to the spirituals of enslaved Africans as a musical genre.” Just after the end of the Civil War, the Fisk School was founded in Nashville, Tennessee as an educational institute that would be open to all, regardless of race or age. In 1871, a group of students formed a choral group, the Fisk Jubilee Singers, with the goal of raising money to fund the institution. That same year, the Fisk Jubilee Singers toured the United States and Europe and raised enough funds to not only preserve the university but to also pay for the construction of Jubilee Hall, the first permanent structure to be built for the education of African-American students in the South. “As a proud alumnus of Fisk University, I am personally grateful for the contributions the original Jubilee Singers made to Fisk,” said Hastings. “The generations of Jubilee Singers who followed in their footsteps also should be recognized for their continual contributions to the community.” October 6, 2010 marks the 139th Jubilee Day. This year, members of the Fisk community in Washington, DC will come together for an event at the Capitol to celebrate Jubilee Day along with the Fisk community in Nashville. Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors of the resolution are Representatives Jim Cooper (D-TN), John Lewis (D-GA), Danny K. Davis (D-IL), Marsha Blackburn (R-TN), Carolyn C. Kilpatrick (D-MI), Wm. Lacy Clay (D-MO), and Gwen Moore (D-WI). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Fisk_Resolution.pdf
07.28.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) sent the following letter to Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano. The letter requests an update and additional information regarding the granting of Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Haitians. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter). July 28, 2010 The Honorable Janet NapolitanoSecretary of Homeland SecurityU.S. Department of Homeland Security Washington, D.C. 20528 Dear Secretary Napolitano, As we commemorate the six month anniversary of the devastating earthquake in Haiti and as a result, the granting of Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Haitians, I am concerned that many of the individuals who qualify for TPS are not benefitting from this protection. I therefore respectfully request an update and additional information regarding the implementation of the TPS program. First, I would greatly appreciate it if you would provide me with the number of individuals who have applied for TPS, the number who have received it, the number who are awaiting a decision, and the number who have been denied. Of those who have been denied, please explain the primary reasons for denial. Such information would better allow me to understand the extent to which Haitians are seeking TPS and if there are any impediments in the process. I am also concerned that many who may benefit from TPS are not seeking this status. Has your Department identified particular challenges faced by applicants during the application process? For example, have fees been a particular burden, and how many individuals have been granted fee waivers? Additionally, have there been many incidences of fraud found thus far, both with regard to individuals submitting fraudulent applications and with those who take advantage of likely applicants? What measures has your Department taken to better educate the Haitian community on TPS and the application process? As you know, TPS is a key component of Haiti’s ongoing recovery efforts. Remittances sent by those who are now able to legally work sustain countless lives on the island, and repatriated Haitians would only be an additional burden to the already struggling government. As such, it is in our best interest to ensure that TPS is implemented in an effective, efficient fashion. I greatly appreciate your recent extension of the application deadline for TPS, and look forward to working with you to ensure that all who qualify are seeking and receiving this protection. Thank you for consideration. Sincerely, Alcee L. HastingsMember of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Letter_to_Napolitano_-_TPS_Question_7.28.10.pdf
07.27.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) issued the following statement as part of the Congressional Black Caucus’s (CBC) Foreign Policy and International Relations Taskforce event “Focus on Haiti: The Road to Recovery – A Six Month Review”: “As we commemorate the six month anniversary of the devastating earthquake in Haiti, there is no doubt that much progress has been made in that time. The outpouring of support, from U.S. and foreign governments, charities, NGOs, and everyday Americans, has been truly inspiring. “At the precarious time in which Haiti finds itself, it wouldn’t take much more than a thunderstorm to undo much of the good work that has been done. Now, as the focus shifts away from the immediate needs, we must focus on Haiti’s long-term development. “While supplying food is undoubtedly important, we must also invest in the agricultural sector and sustainable agricultural practices. While organizations have provided much needed medical care, their services must not further cripple Haiti’s struggling medical system. And while a tarp is certainly better than being exposed to the elements, short-term, emergency shelter cannot not lead to years in tent cities. “Finally, as we work to build Haiti’s physical and economic infrastructure, we cannot forget that at the foundation of it all is an effective government. Our assistance must supplement and not supplant the Government of Haiti. We cannot create an eternally dependent state. “Haiti must be able to stand on its own when the aid organizations leave. “There are a lot of great ideas out there, and there are a lot of smart, hard-working people committed to helping Haiti. However, as decades of dependence on foreign aid have shown us, with the possibility to do good comes the very real possibility of waste, duplication, and inefficiencies in the rebuilding and recovery process. “It is for this reason that I have introduced a bill calling for a White House Conference on Haiti. It will bring together all of the major stakeholders in the rebuilding, along with other interested parties, to share their knowledge and best practices and identify gaps in the recovery process. It is my sincere hope that out of this Conference, opportunities for collaboration and coordination in projects big and small will emerge. “As the media’s attention has now focused on other matters, it is more important than ever that people remember that while the cameras have turned away, the suffering in Haiti endures. We must remain steadfast in our commitment to helping the people of Haiti.” July 12, 2010 marked the six month anniversary of the 7.0 magnitude earthquake that devastated Haiti on January 12, 2010. The earthquake caused hundreds of thousands of casualties as well as severely damaged the infrastructure of the nation. Today’s CBC “Focus on Haiti” event allowed for an update on the progress of ongoing recovery efforts from USAID, the United Nations, and Haitian and U.S. civil society organizations in order to better address current challenges and opportunities in the reconstruction process. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
07.26.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) issued the following statement in commemoration of the 20th anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA): “Twenty years ago, we took a historic step in the direction of equality when the Americans with Disabilities Act was signed into law. “The Americans with Disabilities Act restores dignity and respect to persons with disabilities by ensuring that they have the tools and protections necessary to live active and independent lives. “The ADA ensures equal opportunity for persons with disabilities in employment, State and local government services, public accommodations, commercial facilities, and transportation. Furthermore, it requires the establishment of telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD)/telephone relay services. “The Americans with Disabilities Act was an important milestone in our nation’s history and I am pleased to join in celebrating its 20th anniversary. Our work, however, is far from over, and I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to ensure the equal treatment of all Americans. “Through civil rights legislation such as the Americans with Disabilities Act, we are making equality a reality. I would like to congratulate my esteemed colleague, Congressman Jim Langevin of Rhode Island, who today became the first Member in a wheelchair to preside over the House of Representatives. His historic achievement is truly an inspiration to us all and a testament to the principle of equality for all. I would also like to thank my colleagues Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa, Congressman Edward Markey of Massachusetts, Congressman Patrick Kennedy of Rhode Island, and Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner of Wisconsin, as well as former Congressman Tony Coelho of California, for their leadership in making the Americans with Disabilities Act a reality.” The ADA was signed into law on July 26, 1990 by President George H.W. Bush following its passage in both the House of Representatives and the Senate. Greater protections were given to disabled workers on September 25, 2008 when President Bush signed several amendments to the ADA into law. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
07.21.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letter to Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Administrator Randy Babbitt. The letter requests the postponement of efforts to realign air traffic control (ATC) services in Florida until a reassessment and comprehensive safety and cost analysis have been conducted. Joining Hastings on the letter are Senator Bill Nelson (D-FL) and Representatives Allen Boyd (D-FL), Corrine Brown (D-FL), Ginny Brown-Waite (R-FL), Kathy Castor (D-FL), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Alan Grayson (D-FL), Ron Klein (D-FL), Suzanne M. Kosmas (D-FL), Kendrick B. Meek (D-FL), Jeff Miller (R-FL), Bill Posey (R-FL), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Thomas J. Rooney (R-FL), and Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL). (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter.) July 21, 2010 Mr. J. Randolph BabbittAdministratorFederal Aviation Administration800 Independence Avenue, SWWashington, DC 20591 Dear Administrator Babbitt: We write today regarding the recently released report by the Department of Transportation’s Inspector General (IG) concerning the consolidation of the Terminal Radar Approach Control facility (TRACON) at Boise. Because the IG's report confirms the state delegation's long-held convictions that such consolidations do not save money or improve operational efficiency, we respectfully request that your agency postpone its efforts to realign air traffic control (ATC) services in Florida until a similar comprehensive review has been conducted. As you know, the Florida delegation has expressed reservations regarding the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) plan to consolidate air traffic control services in our state, raising several questions about the safety and financial impacts to the local aviation communities. The IG’s report appears to validate those concerns, concluding that the “FAA’s cost estimates of the option to keep the TRACON in Boise were questionable.” In addition, the report states that “approximately…89 percent of the FAA’s projected investment costs for keeping the TRACON in Boise were questionable.” We are concerned that the IG’s conclusions may not be unique to Boise and, instead, could be indicative of the FAA’s decision-making process in the proposed realignments throughout Florida. Over the past several years the Florida delegation has expressed to the FAA and Department of Transportation (DOT) our collective concerns with efforts to realign air traffic control facilities and services across the state. In 2009, several of us met with Secretary Ray LaHood in West Palm Beach to express those concerns, insisting that we were unconvinced that consolidation would have any benefit to the flying public or the taxpayer, particularly if such efforts to de-combine such facilities were done without proper vetting and scrutiny. It is evident from the recent report that the FAA’s validations for Boise did not stand up against such vetting and scrutiny. The IG found that the “FAA’s business case was flawed and lacked transparency,” raising questions about whether any of the intended goals are achieved through consolidation. The IG report on Boise concludes that the FAA “must periodically reassess business cases for consolidating air traffic facilities to evaluate whether the assumptions underlying any projected cost-savings remain valid and adjust the course of action as appropriate.” We applaud your decision to reverse the Boise TRACON transfer proposal after learning of the flaws in the business case. We believe that the plans for realigning the radar facilities in Florida should be placed on hold until such a reassessment and comprehensive safety and cost analysis have been conducted. We appreciate your attention to this critical aviation safety matter and look forward to your timely response. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### FL_Delegation_Letter_to_FAA.pdf
07.15.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar), Co-Chairman of the Democratic Caucus’ Jobs Task Force, made the following statement calling on the Senate to take immediate action by extending unemployment benefits and passing an urgently needed jobs bill: “It is far past time for the Senate to act on creating jobs by passing the necessary legislation to boost economic growth. Too many Americans are out of work, too many are waiting around for this Congress to act, and too many are fed up with a Senate that has been more interested in preserving tax loopholes for the ultra-wealthy than with ensuring that millions of Americans receive the unemployment compensation they need to feed their families and keep their homes,” said Hastings. “The House of Representatives has funded a wide range of job creation measures. Now when will the Senate act?” “Senate Republicans are committed to saying ‘No’ to everything in hopes of derailing the Democratic effort to bring our economy out of a recession. But who they are really saying ‘No’ to are the millions of unemployed Americans who cannot find a job and struggle to care of their families. While Republicans are spending their time trying to throw Democrats out of office, they are really throwing away the futures of millions of Americans who need Congress to pass legislation that will create jobs. I urge the Senate to act on House-passed jobs legislation, and if the Republicans insist on keeping America down so they can rise up, well then I say let them tell that to struggling Floridians in my home district.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
07.01.2010	Today, the House of Representatives passed a resolution introduced by Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) recognizing the important role pollinators play in sustaining the ecosystem and supporting the goals and ideals of National Pollinator Week. This year marked the fourth anniversary of National Pollinator Week, which was celebrated June 21-27, 2010. The resolution passed unanimously. (Please find attached a copy of the resolution.) Hastings made the following remarks on the House floor on June 29, 2010 regarding his resolution: “Madam Speaker, today the House will consider H.Res. 1460, which honors National Pollinator Week. With the efforts of the Pollinator Partnership, a majority of states and a number of federal agencies, including the Department of Agriculture, have officially recognized June 21-27, 2010 as a time to reflect upon the importance of, and challenges facing, these species. My resolution acknowledges how vital these animals are to our ecosystem and agriculture and supports the goals and ideals of National Pollinator Week. “Seventy-five percent of all flowering plant species rely on creatures like birds, bats, bees and butterflies for fertilization. It would be a misconception, however, to think that pollinators are only important to plants and provide little benefit to us. In fact, one out of every three bites of food that we eat, as well as $20 billion of products in the United States alone, derive from pollinators. In light of those kinds of figures, the security of our food supply clearly hinges on the survival of these species. National Pollinator Week is a time to reflect upon these contributions and what we can do to help preserve these animals. “On a similar note, Madam Speaker, to further emphasize the importance of this issue, I recently co-founded and now co-chair the Congressional Pollinator Protection Caucus along with Representative Tim Johnson. The Caucus is a bi-partisan source of information and discussion related to how natural, political and economic developments impact the security of pollinators and their habitats. Last week, a briefing on the future of pollinators and in recognition of National Pollinator Week was held in conjunction with the Caucus, which was a tremendous success. We are planning more events and briefings to keep Members and their staff informed on this important issue. I urge all of my colleagues to become members of the Congressional Pollinator Protection Caucus. “Madam Speaker, National Pollinator Week provided us an opportunity to recognize how important pollinators are to the sustainability of our environment and to our food supply. Therefore, I strongly urge my colleagues to vote in favor of my resolution. Thank you.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Pollinator_Resolution.pdf
07.01.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) testified before the Subcommittee on Disability Assistance & Memorial Affairs of the House Committee on Veterans Affairs regarding legislation that he introduced entitled, the Veterans Pensions Protection Act of 2010 (H.R. 4541). The bill would protect veterans from losing their pension benefits because they received payments to cover expenses incurred after an accident, theft, loss or casualty loss. (Please find attached a copy of the bill.) Please find below a copy of Congressman Hastings’ prepared remarks: “In the spring of 2009, one of my constituents, a navy veteran with muscular dystrophy, reached out to my office in desperate need of assistance. The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) had abruptly cancelled his pension and he had fallen below the poverty line. Unable to pay for daily expenses, unable to meet his mortgage payments, Mr. Scriber was on the verge of losing his home and joining the ranks of the 100,000 homeless veterans in our nation. “Mr. Scriber did not break the law, nor did he commit any crime. In March 2008, he was hit by a truck when crossing the street in his wheelchair, with his service dog. Mr. Scriber was on his way to the pharmacy. ‘People who saw it said I went 10 feet into the air. I landed head-first into the pavement,’ he told me. Mr. Scriber suffered from broken bones and teeth. His dog was also injured and his wheelchair destroyed. “As a law-abiding citizen, Mr. Scriber reported to the VA the insurance settlement payment that he received from the driver’s insurance to cover his medical expenses and the replacement cost of his wheelchair. As a result, the VA cancelled his pension benefits for an entire year. When assessing a veteran’s eligibility for a pension, the VA considers a variety of sources of revenue to determine a veteran’s annual income. If such income exceeds the income limit set by the VA, the veteran does not qualify for a pension or loses their benefits. Currently, the VA considers any reimbursement that compensates a veteran for his or her expenses due to accidents, theft or loss as income. Only reimbursements of expenses related to casualty loss are currently exempted from determination of income. “Under the current law, if a veteran is seriously injured in an accident or is the victim of a theft and receives insurance compensation to cover his or her medical expenses, the replacement cost of the stolen items, or for pain and suffering, he or she will likely lose their pension as a result. This means that the law effectively punishes veterans when they suffer from such an accident or theft. “Mr. Scriber reached out to the VA several times, asking to have his pension reinstated because he could not cover his medical expenses, replace his wheelchair, pay for daily expenses, and afford his mortgage without his pension. Each time, the VA refused to reinstate his pension. This is when I became personally involved. I contacted the West Palm Beach VA medical center and wrote several letters to Secretary Shinseki but the VA did not change its policy, nor did they restore Mr. Scriber’s benefits for a whole year. “I am distraught that the VA can cancel the pensions of unemployed and disabled veterans without further notice. The VA has a moral responsibility to care for our veterans and ensure that they live decent lives. After serving our nation so valiantly, they deserve no less than the very best benefits. No veterans should be unable to pay their medical bills, unable to get the care that they need, or be in a situation where they could lose their home. This is simply unacceptable and this is why I introduced H.R. 4541, the Veterans Pensions Protection Act. “The Veterans Pensions Protection Act will amend the US Code to exempt the reimbursement of expenses related to accidents, theft, loss or casualty loss from being included in the determination of a veteran’s income. This will guarantee the continuity of our veterans’ pensions and that no veteran will have their benefits unfairly and abruptly depreciated or cancelled. My distinguished colleague in the Senate, Mr. Tester of Montana introduced the Veterans Pensions Protection Act last month after a similar incident happened to one of his constituents. “I understand that the VA is facing increasing issues with regards to providing care and benefits to our returning servicemembers, and the veterans of previous conflicts. With more veterans coming home from Iraq and Afghanistan, the costs of transition and long-term care continue to increase. The backlog of claims filed by those who served in uniform is growing. While I understand these difficulties, I refuse to let them overtake our veterans’ well-being. The VA must ensure that no veterans are left behind, like Mr. Scriber was. “There is clearly something wrong with a law that cancels veterans’ pensions for a whole year following the award of an insurance payment, which was only intended to cover exceptional medical expenses. Mr. Scriber will never be compensated for his loss. It disheartens me that veterans are overlooked and mistreated due to flaws in VA regulations. I urge the VA to support the Veterans Pensions Protection Act and the Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs to take action on it. “Mr. Chairman, we must ensure that pension benefits are issued to veterans who legitimately meet the income criteria and rely on such assistance to survive. We must enact regulations that help veterans live better lives, not hurt them. Our veterans have shown their devotion to our nation with their bravery and sacrifice. We must now prove our dedication to those heroes by treating them in accordance with the values and ideals upon which we have founded this great nation.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Veterans_Pensions_Protection_Act.pdf
06.29.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) and Congressman Kendrick B. Meek (D-Miami) introduced the Gulf Coast Conservation Act of 2010. This legislation would create jobs by forming a workforce to assist in the clean-up and restoration efforts in the Gulf Coast following the BP oil spill. (Please find attached a copy of the bill). “Even before the oil spill, the region was suffering under extraordinary unemployment levels,” said Hastings. “The tourist industry contributed 620,000 jobs and over $9 billion in wages to the Gulf region. The fishing industry supports over 200,000 jobs with related economic activity of $5.5 billion. With so much of the federal waters unavailable for fishing and so many tourists cancelling planned vacations, the dire need to get people back to work is obvious.” “The Gulf Coast Conservation Corps is a win-win: Not only will the program create a workforce to clean-up the worst environmental disaster in American history, but it will also tackle the problem of chronic unemployment in Gulf Coast communities,” said Meek. “I’m thrilled to join Rep. Hastings to jumpstart a vital public-private partnership that will benefit our country for years to come.” The Gulf Coast Conservation Corps program will be similar to that of the Civil Conservation Corps, which was created by President Franklin D. Roosevelt during the Great Depression. The Corps will be a partnership between government and business and will provide workers with the means, training and knowledge they need to clean-up the environmental disaster in the Gulf Coast. On April 20, the BP operated Deepwater Horizon oil rig exploded and sank, starting a chain of events that would lead to the worst environmental disaster in the history of the United States. Since BP was unable to stop the leak at the time of the explosion, oil has continually been pouring into the waters of the Gulf of Mexico since April. Current estimates hold that 60,000 barrels of crude oil enter the Gulf every day and that this catastrophe is well on its way to being the largest oil spill in history. This disaster has had devastating consequences both environmentally and economically. The oil continues to threaten marine and wildlife habitats, causing great harm to the plants and animals they support. Persons dependent upon the Gulf to make a living, specifically in the fishing and tourism industries have become victims of the oil spill and many have become unemployed. Joining Hastings and Meek as an original co-sponsor of this bill is Representative Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. (GA). ### Gulf_Coast_Conservation_Corps.pdf
06.22.2010	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar), Co-Founder and Co-Chairman of the Congressional Caucus on Homelessness, today congratulated the United States Interagency Council on Homelessness (USICH) on the release of their comprehensive plan to end homelessness entitled, Opening Doors: The Federal Strategic Plan to Prevent and End Homelessness. “This 19-agency strong collaboration sends a clear message that eradicating homelessness among individuals, families, children, youth, and veterans is a central goal of this government,” Hastings said. Studies indicate that, on any given night in America, anywhere from 700,000 to 2 million people are homeless. Sadly, the recession has coincided with increases in homelessness, as reported by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, public schools, and local homeless service agencies. Hastings further noted, “The unfortunate fact is that the State of Florida has the third highest homelessness rate in the country. As Co-Chairman of the Congressional Caucus on Homelessness, I share the Council’s core mission: ‘Homelessness is unacceptable, homelessness is solvable, and no one should be without a safe, stable place to call home.’” As the most expansive and ambitious plan to end homelessness in our nation’s history, Opening Doors will strive to align mainstream health, housing, education, and human services to prevent Americans from experiencing homelessness. The four key goals of the plan are: end chronic homelessness in five years; prevent and end homelessness among veterans in five years; prevent and end homelessness for families, youth, and children in ten years; and set a path to ending all types of homelessness. “Adequate housing is essential for healthy families and communities,” Hastings said. “I would like to congratulate and thank the U.S. Interagency Council on Homelessness as well as those who worked tirelessly on this plan to ensure that a path is set to end all types of homelessness.” “The comprehensive nature of the plan is a targeted roadmap that is as achievable as it is impressive. This is a very exciting moment and I look forward to working with the Obama administration to continue coordination on this important cause.” For more information on the U.S. Interagency Council on Homelessness, please visit: http://www.ich.gov/. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
06.22.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced a resolution commemorating the 4th anniversary of National Pollinator Week, which takes place from June 21 – 27, 2010. (Please find attached a copy of the resolution). “National Pollinator Week is a time to acknowledge the vital place pollinators occupy in our society,” said Hastings. “One-third of all food and beverages as well as $20 billion worth of products in the United States alone are derived from pollinators. These animals are essential for the survival of ecosystems across the country as well as the sustainability and security of our food supply.” Pollinators such as bees, bats, birds and butterflies enable the fertilization of plants and crops by moving their pollen. Because of the indispensability of these animals, National Pollinator Week is necessary to increase awareness of pollinators and highlight the need to protect them. “There are many things people can do to help protect and encourage pollinators’ growth and survival,” Hastings acknowledged. “For instance, you can plant a garden with native flowering plants supplying pollinators with nectar, pollen and homes as well as work to minimize pollution and use of chemicals that contaminate their habitats.“I hope that this year’s National Pollinator Week celebration will educate the public about the pollinators’ important role. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this resolution to protect these species and our environment.” Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors of the resolution are Representatives Tim Johnson (R-IL), Dennis Cardoza (D-CA), Henry Brown (R-SC), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Leonard Boswell (D-IA), Michael Michaud (D-ME), Tim Holden (D-PA) and Adam Putnam (R-FL). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### RESOLUTION_Pollinator_Week.pdf
06.19.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) recognized the 145th anniversary of Juneteenth. Nearly three years after President Abraham Lincoln signed the Emancipation Proclamation, Union General Gordon Granger and 2,000 troops marched to Galveston, Texas on June 19, 1865, to inform enslaved men, women and children that they were free. “The end of slavery did not mark the end of discrimination. Federal and state laws were soon enacted that excluded blacks and other people of color from equal rights for more than a century. However, Juneteenth is a defining moment in our nation’s history when this country took an important step in extending the promise of liberty to all Americans,” said Hastings. “Almost a century and a half later, the descendants of slaves have occupied some of the most powerful positions in the world. However, jarring disparities in employment, health, and wealth persist in black communities across the nation. And, although over 140 years have passed since slavery was legally abolished in the U.S., millions of men, women and children are enslaved around the world, and tens of thousands of slaves are trafficked into this country each year,” continued Hastings. “Thankfully, our country has taken steps to combat modern slavery and inequality domestically and internationally. The U.S. has followed other progressive nations by issuing a formal apology for its history of enslavement, and has committed to building a more equitable and just future for people living in the U.S. and abroad,” Hastings further noted. “This past Wednesday, members of Congress unveiled commemorative plaques that honored the contributions that slaves made in building the U.S. Capitol, and our country as a whole. I commend my colleagues and other parties for spearheading this effort, and recognize it as a strong attempt for our nation to tell a more accurate and comprehensive version of our history. “As we celebrate Juneteenth, Americans of all backgrounds must remember to continue the work of fighting the injustices that continue to deprive countless people of the basic rights and privileges that should be afforded to all individuals.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
06.17.2010	Meets Artist at Unveiling Ceremony in Washington Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) announced that Ms. Tamzn Pienaar of Ft. Lauderdale, Florida has won the 29th Annual Congressional Art Competition for Florida’s 23rd district. Pienaar’s oil painting, a piece entitled “Self Portrait,” was selected to represent the 23rd district in Washington for the next year. “Tamzn’s self portrait was truly a standout. Among the many submissions that I received this year, hers was the most striking,” said Hastings. Pienaar, a senior at Stranahan High School in Ft. Lauderdale, studies art under her teacher Nancy Green. She describes “Self Portrait” as a study of her eating habits and depicts herself sucking spaghetti from a bowl in the painting. In addition to winning the district art competition, Pienaar traveled with her mother, Geraldine, to Washington, DC in order to attend an unveiling ceremony hosted by the House of Representatives on June 17, 2010. “Self Portrait,” along with the artwork of other national winners, will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. “With art programs being cut throughout schools in Florida, it is imperative that we continue to support the arts in education. The Congressional Art Competition has served as a national canvas for young artists to display their creativity for the past 29 years and is an excellent way for Congress to encourage the nurturing of their artistic talent,” further noted Hastings. “I congratulate Tamzn on her distinguished achievement and wish her the best of luck in her studies and future artistic endeavors.” Hastings’ Art Competition is held annually and is open to any student attending a school located in the 23rd Congressional district, which includes parts of Broward, Palm Beach, Martin, St. Lucie, and Hendry Counties. Artwork that can be submitted range from paintings, drawings, collages, prints, mixed media, computer generated art, and photography. Students and teachers interested in learning more about the Congressional Art Competition should contact Hastings’ Fort Lauderdale Office at (954) 733-2800. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
06.14.2010	On Saturday, June 12, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) was awarded an honorary Doctorate degree of Philosophy and Educational Leadership from Keiser University. He also gave the commencement address to 350 graduates of its Fort Lauderdale campus. Please find below a copy of Hastings’ remarks: Let me begin by thanking Keiser University for inviting me here today. I am a longtime supporter of Keiser and am privileged to consider Belinda and Art Keiser dear friends.I am consistently impressed by the institution they have created as well as the caliber of students who walk through its doors. I truly am honored to be in your company today. I also want to take a moment to congratulate, not only the students, but also the parents, families, and loved ones who have helped you reach this moment. A college degree is an incredible achievement, and you would not be here without the countless hours of hard work you have put into your schooling. But also, remind yourselves of all of those individuals who provided the support, encouragement, and assistance to make this day possible. It is the tradition for commencement speakers to impart advice, extol the merits of the graduates, and expound upon the myriad of possibilities that await you beyond these walls. Well, for those of you who know me, I am not one for tradition. By virtue of the fact that you have chosen to attend this institution, it is clear that you are well aware of the benefits of higher education. You long-ago decided to take the reins of your future, you realized that it is your sole responsibility to create opportunities for yourself, and you have been adequately prepared to seize the opportunities your education has provided. Today, rather than weaving a fairytale of how your diploma will surely be a golden ticket to boundless prosperity, I am going to put a few more challenges on your plate. The stark truth is we are living in uncertain times with an uncertain future. It was only a short time ago that our economy was on the brink of collapse, the housing market in Florida continues to struggle, and unemployment remains near record highs. While our economy appears to be rebounding, there is still concern that global economic pressures will impede our recovery. And yet, as I have visited Keiser and spoken with countless students, I am always taken aback by the professional drive you share, your commitment to succeed, and your focused approach to professional development. A few years ago, in the months before my mother passed, she spent much of her time hospitalized. Of the many medical professionals who cared for her, at least 8 of the nurses were Keiser graduates. I can say then that I am well-acquainted with your talents and capabilities, so I will not stand here and wish you the future successes I am sure you will attain. Instead, I challenge you to do more. You have already been given the tools needed to advance in your professions of choice, so now, I urge you to look beyond the benefits that your education will provide to just you and your families. I realize it may be impolite to discuss politics in a commencement address, but seeing as I already wish to do away with tradition, I will go ahead. Whether it be in Washington, DC or South Florida, you can’t ignore the toxic political dialogue. The talking heads focus on the horse race and which side is right or wrong, winning or losing, rather than on how we can work together to improve the lives of our citizens. Therefore, I challenge you to rise above the bitterness. As the future leaders of our nation, I challenge you to take ownership of your community’s future, both as it recovers from the current slump and as we encounter further challenges. Statistics have consistently shown that higher education is not merely about personal improvement. A more educated community is a more prosperous community, not simply in the economic sense, but in the social as well. As you make your way through the professional world, seek opportunities to help those around you as well. Whether it is by mentoring a coworker, volunteering your time, or speaking out for what is just, reach outside your inner circle and use the lessons you have learned in the classroom to improve the world around you. Be proactive in shaping your communities. You do not need to be a politician or a CEO to change the world. The changes and innovations that have had the greatest impact on our society were born out of the passion and dedication of those who pursued their goals despite the doubt and discouragement from otherwise seemingly rational critics. I am reminded of a poem I heard recently entitled “Think.” It begins: Few things possess more Power than a Thought. Because a Thought has a potential to become something significant.To solve something meaningful.And to inspire us to achieve great things. What makes a Thought so powerful is that it can be created by anybody.At anytime.From anywhere. That’s why thinking should be encouraged and nurtured in all its forms.No matter how small.Or how impossibly grand. Because wherever Thinking happens, Big ideas follow.Minds become enlightened.Knowledge grows.And people discover new ways to unlock theirPotential. So start Thinking. When boiled down to its essence, this is what an education is all about – the ability to harness the power of thought. Learning teaches you to think critically of the world around you, to adapt to changing circumstances and conditions, to use your minds to create, to build, to teach, to explore. Each and every one of you has the capacity to achieve anything within those limits which only you set for yourselves, so start thinking. Nearly a generation ago, President Clinton said, in his first inaugural address, “There is nothing wrong with America that cannot be cured by what is right with America.” You are what is right with America, and never underestimate that of which you are capable. You are the ones who can deliver a century of unprecedented advancements in business, medicine, and technology. You are the ones who will bring us out of this recession. And you have the power to ensure we never go down this road again. Graduation is not simply about you; it is also about what you will contribute when you head out these doors. So get to work. I wish you much success as you chart a path forward for yourself and help to rebuild this nation. Thank you, and congratulations! About Keiser University: Keiser University is Florida’s leading statewide provider of career-focused, post-secondary education and is regionally accredited by the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools. Keiser University serves approximately 18,000 students seeking associate, bachelor’s, master’s and doctoral degrees in over 50 high demand degree programs at its 14 campuses and through its online, Graduate School and College of Golf divisions. Keiser University’s educational reach extends globally through its international programs including the Latin Division and cooperative agreements in the Eastern European nation of Moldova, as well as the new campus in Shanghai, China. For more information on Keiser University, visit www.keiseruniversity.edu. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
06.01.2010	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) has introduced a resolution recognizing the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) on its 35th anniversary, which is July 1, 2010. CITES was created in 1973 to ensure that international trade in wild plants and animals does not threaten their survival. (Please find attached a copy of the legislation) “Launched with a few signatory nations, CITES has now 175 parties that have an international obligation and responsibility to protect our planets’ endangered animals and plants. Nearly 5,000 species of animals and 28,000 species of plants are protected by the Convention against over-exploitation through international trade. Adherence to these protective measures has proven to have benefited the conservation of animals and plants worldwide,” said Hastings. “Unfortunately, more and more species are at risk of extinction and international trade, both legal and illegal, has exacerbated the dangers. International wildlife trade is estimated to be worth billions of dollars per year and to include hundreds of millions of live plants and animals and derived products such as food products, leather and fur, ornamentals, ivory, and timber. Such high levels of exploitation and trade in wild animals and plants, together with other factors such as habitat loss, are capable of bringing some species close to extinction.” Every two to three years the parties of CITES meet at the Conference of the Parties to review the status of species in danger of extinction and establish trade restrictions. The 15th meeting of the Conference of the Parties was held in March 2010. “Several proposals were submitted during the summit, some of them ensuring better protections for endangered species, others trying to downlist species and re-open trade. While proposals to downlist elephant populations in Tanzania and Zambia were successfully defeated, several proposals to establish stronger protections for the polar bear, eight sharks, the bluefin tuna and other species were unfortunately rejected. I am saddened to see that economic interests have prevailed over species conservation, which could ultimately bring them close to extinction. This is unacceptable,” added Hastings. The resolution will congratulate the Convention on its 35th anniversary and recognize the important contributions it has made since its establishment in regulating international trade in endangered species and protecting endangered species worldwide. It will also applaud the Convention’s recent leadership in protecting elephants in Tanzania and Zambia. Lastly, the resolution will urge all parties to the Convention to collaborate effectively to curb excessive exploitation of species for international trade and, in particular, to adopt stronger protections for the polar bear, sharks, bluefin tuna and other endangered species at the 16th meeting of the Conference of the Parties in 2013. Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors of the legislation include: Representatives Debbie Wasserman Schultz, John Conyers Jr., and Fortney Pete Stark. Endorsing organizations: The Wildlife Conservation Society and International Fund for Animal Welfare. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Cites_Anniversary.doc.pdf
05.27.2010	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today expressed in a letter to Governor Charlie Crist his concern that the Holocaust Documentation and Education Center’s Holocaust Rail Car Renovation Project may be cut from this year’s state budget. The Holocaust-era rail car from Poland is one of many used by the Nazis during the Holocaust to transport millions of Jews to concentration camps and their untimely deaths. Joined in this effort were Representatives Ron Klein (FL-22), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20), Alan Grayson (FL-8), and Ted Deutch (FL-19). (Please find attached a copy of the letter) “This issue came to my attention when local Jewish community leaders, including Holocaust survivor Norman Frajman, contacted my office. As I have said many times, I will always fight hatred and intolerance wherever it exists, for human freedom depends on the presence of justice, the justice that was denied to so many during the dark days of World War II. To ignore that lesson is unforgivable and this Holocaust-era rail car is tangible proof of the horrors that occur when we fail to respond to injustice,” Hastings said. “I am grateful to the Holocaust Documentation and Education Center for putting names and faces to the victims of the Shoah and I will continue to support their essential mission to educate Floridians and the world alike of the dangers of hate and intolerance. “Governor Crist supported the initial preservation phase of this important project and I urge him to make the decision that we all know is right and just once again.” The text of Representative Hastings' letter follows. May 26, 2010 The Honorable Charlie CristThe Capitol400 South Monroe StreetTallahassee, FL 32399-0001 Dear Governor Crist: We urge you to support the $250,000 Department of State grant in Budget Line Item 3175C for the Holocaust Documentation and Education Center’s Rail Car Renovation Project. It has recently come to our attention that funding for this unique and worthy endeavor, which benefits all Floridians, has been listed as a 2010-11 Florida TaxWatch “Turkey.” We know you have evaluated and wisely rejected some of their recommendations in the past and hope you will do so this time. The initial preservation phase for this meritorious project was funded in 2008 with your help and this grant money will help complete the renovation and preservation of this historical vestige. Millions of victims were torn from their homes and hauled away to Nazi concentration camps in rail cars just like the Center’s Holocaust-era rail car obtained from Poland. Today, there are only nine such Holocaust-era rail cars still in existence in the United States. As home to the world’s third-largest population of Holocaust survivors, as well as thousands of their descendants, Florida is a natural destination for this artifact. The Museum will be the first museum in North America to tell the story of the Holocaust in both English and Spanish, and it will be accessible to millions of individuals and families who otherwise might not have the opportunity to engage directly with these materials. Today, we see genocide still occurring around the world. The Rail Car Project serves as a physical reminder of the horrors possible when hate and violence are left unchecked. Not only is this project an invaluable educational asset in teaching the horrors of genocide, in compliance with Florida’s Holocaust Education Mandate, but it will also be an enormous attractor for scholars, historians, and tourists. This tangible link to the past is especially critical as Holocaust revisionists grow in number while fewer and fewer Holocaust survivors remain to tell their stories. Thank you for your time and consideration of this important request. We urge you to keep this essential finding in the budget and ensure that Florida and the world never forget the Holocaust. Please do not hesitate to contact our offices with further questions. With warm regards, Sincerely, Alcee L. HastingsMember of Congress Ron KleinMember of Congress Debbie Wasserman SchultzMember of Congress Alan GraysonMember of Congress Ted DeutchMember of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Letter_to_Gov_Crist_re_Holocaust_Museum_rail_car_project_May_2010.pdf
05.26.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) withdrew an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act for the Fiscal Year 2011 that would have authorized the International Committee of the Red Cross to access detained individuals under United States control. (Please find attached a copy of the amendment) “Although I believe this amendment would bring much-needed transparency and accountability to our human rights policy, particularly as it pertains to the issue of detaining suspected terrorists, the toxic political environment has forced me to withdraw this amendment,” Hastings said. “It has been made clear to me that to push for this matter will invite heated opposition from Members who think that complying with international human rights law is somehow bad for our national security.” On January 22, 2009, President Obama signed an Executive Order pertaining to lawful interrogation of individuals in United States custody. In that Order, the President included language enabling the Red Cross to access detainees held under U.S. control. Hastings’ amendment follows the language of that Order with one important change. The Executive Order specifies that the Red Cross will have access to detainees pursuant to Department of Defense regulations. The amendment simply removes that clause so that Red Cross access is assured in accordance with international human rights agreements like the Geneva Conventions. “Limiting the Red Cross’ access to Department of Defense policies is problematic for two reasons,” explained Hastings. “The present language leaves the Red Cross and detainees at the mercy of defense policies which can change over time. Second, it signals to other countries that the United States isn’t willing to comply with the Geneva Conventions and other international agreements.” The Red Cross has a permanent mandate under international law to take impartial action for prisoners, the wounded and sick, and civilians affected by conflict. “Whether we’re talking about stripping citizenship from suspects or denying basic civil liberties on the basis of accusations of terrorism, we are failing to understand that one of the single best ways we can combat terrorism and its ideologies is by upholding the very human rights laws we profess to care about,” said Hastings. “This means allowing the Red Cross to access each and every detainee under United States control wherever they are held in the world. “This Congress is going to have to realize that we need sensible, effective, and legal solutions for the problems of detainment,” Hastings further noted. “We cannot simply cede all the authority in this matter to the Executive Branch. “My hope is that we can begin by establishing policies on things we can all agree on, such as Red Cross access to detainees under United States control.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Rep_Alcee_L_Hastings_ICRC_Amendment_withdrawn_5.26.2010.pdf
05.20.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced legislation to honor the late Lena Horne with a Congressional Gold Medal for her outstanding contributions to American culture and the Civil Rights Movement. Ms. Horne passed away in New York City on May 9, 2010 at the age of 92. (Please find attached a copy of the bill) “Ms. Lena Horne was an extraordinarily talented and beautiful woman who entertained America and broke racial barriers as a singer, dancer, and actress for over 60 years,” said Hastings. Horne danced in the chorus of Harlem’s famous Cotton Club, was one of the first African American women to tour with an all-white band, Charlie Barnet’s jazz band, and became the first black artist to sign a long-term contract with a major studio, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer (MGM). She also starred in such musicals as Cabin in the Sky, Stormy Weather, and The Wiz, as well as numerous television specials and variety shows. In 1981, Horne captivated audiences with her one-woman Broadway show, Lena Horne: The Lady and Her Music, which earned her a special Tony Award and two Grammy Awards. “Ms. Horne refused to give up her dreams and fought racial discrimination in film and television and onstage,” further noted Hastings. During McCarthyism in the 1950s, Horne was blacklisted as a communist because of her activism and, in 1963, she participated in the historic March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom, at which Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. delivered his immortal “I Have a Dream” speech. Throughout her career, Horne worked with the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), National Council of Negro Women, Delta Sigma Theta sorority, and the Urban League as a powerful voice for civil rights and equality. “My thoughts and prayers go out to Ms. Horne’s daughter, Ms. Gail Lumet Buckley, and the rest of her family and friends at this most difficult time.” The Congressional Gold Medal has been bestowed by Congress since 1776 in order to express public gratitude for the most distinguished contributions on behalf of the nation. Joining Congressman Hastings as original co-sponsor are (21): Representatives Anh “Joseph” Cao (LA), Raul Grijalva (AZ), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), Bennie Thompson (MS), John Lewis (GA), Diane Watson (CA), C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD), Yvette Clarke (NY), Corrine Brown (FL), Marcia L. Fudge (OH), Kendrick Meek (FL), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX), Carolyn Kilpatrick (MI), Donna M. Christensen (VI), Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA), Danny Davis (IL), Charles B. Rangel (NY), Dana Rohrabacher (CA), Artur Davis (AL), Gregory Meeks (NY), and John Conyers, Jr. (MI). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Rep_Alcee_L_Hastings_Lena_Horne_Bill_5.20.2010.pdf
04.30.2010	Last night, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced a resolution urging the Government of Canada to end the commercial seal hunt. (Please find attached a copy of the legislation) “While the vast majority of countries have banned the commercial seal hunt long ago, Canada is by far the largest remaining seal killer in the world. The commercial seal hunt is not only unnecessary but cruel. Ninety-seven percent of the seals killed are pups between twelve days and twelve weeks of age, without any ability to defend themselves. They are either shot or struck on the head by a hakapik or club. Many are injured in the course of the hunt and escape beneath the ice where they die slowly and are never recovered. Seal pups can also be skinned while still alive,” said Hastings. Each year, about 300,000 harp seal pups are killed for their meat, oil and pelts and almost exclusively traded internationally. The United States and the European Union have banned both the hunting of seals and the importation of any seal products. In recent years, the Minister of Fisheries and Oceans of Canada has authorized historically high quotas for harp seals despite high pup mortality, low seal fur prices and reduced industry participation. “Several reports concluded that avoidable suffering occurs during hunting, sealers fail to comply with regulations and authorities do not effectively monitor the hunt and enforce regulations. Polling has shown that the majority of people in Canada oppose the commercial seal hunt and support foreign nations' ending their trade in seal products. A recent poll even reveals that half of Newfoundland sealers support a federal buyout of the commercial sealing industry,” further noted Hastings. Hastings’ resolution will urge the Government of Canada to prohibit the commercial hunting of seals, while allowing subsistence hunting for aboriginal communities. It will also encourage other countries to ban trade in seal products. “This slaughter has to come to an end. Wild animals are a very important part of our commonly held natural resources and contribute to the diversity and stability of our environment. We cannot let economic interests take over our moral values. Animal cruelty is an inexcusable abomination. The United States must continue to protect those animals that cannot protect themselves and ensure fair and humane treatment.” Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors of the legislation include: Representatives Eni F. H. Faleomavaega, Shelley Berkley, Lynn Woolsey, Barbara Lee, Phil Hare, Jackie Speier, Mazie Hirono, Howard L. Berman, Sam Farr, Raúl Grijalva, Robert Andrews, Jared Polis, and Pete Stark. Endorsing organizations: The Animal Welfare Institute and PETA. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Seal_hunting_resolution_4.2010.doc.pdf
04.30.2010	Last night, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced legislation that would establish a national plan for improving long-term care and community services. The Commission on Improving Long-Term Care and Community Services Act of 2010 directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish a National Commission on Improving Long-Term Care and Services. The Commission will be composed of a variety of federal and national stakeholders that will construct a comprehensive strategy on how to increase the affordability, accessibility and effectiveness of long-term care and community services in the U.S. and U.S. territories (Please find attached a copy of the bill). “In a little more than twenty years, one-fifth of the U.S. population will be age sixty-five or older. States with significant elder populations like Florida know the importance of ensuring that our health care system is well equipped to provide adequate long-term care services,” Hastings stated. “However, there has never been a national plan for long-term care, and nearly twenty years have passed since Congress comprehensively reviewed our nation’s long-term care policy.” Long-term care is a broad range of health and social services that are used by people who cannot care for themselves independently because they live with a physical, cognitive, or mental disability. Well over 9.4 million adults receive long-term care in the United States and this number is expected to rise. Longer life spans among the chronically ill and disabled, and higher incidences of acquired disabilities from unmanaged conditions such as HIV/AIDS, diabetes, obesity and heart disease has created an increase in our reliance on long-term care. “Last year, I introduced H.Res. 217, which expressed the need for a national strategy on long-term care, and the necessity for including long-term care in comprehensive health care reform. Many agreed that addressing the state of long-term care and community services is critically important to improving our health care system. However, concerns about the potentially high cost of implementing corrective measures stymied efforts to aggressively tackle the problem in the health reform bill,” further noted Hastings. “The Commission on Improving Long-Term Care and Community Services Act of 2010 is a cost effective way to ensure that we comprehensively address long-term care and community services in the U.S. and U.S. territories.” Joining Congressman Hastings as original co-sponsors (15) are: Representatives James McGovern (MA), Donna Christensen (VI), John Conyers, Jr. (MI), Corrine Brown (FL), Emanuel Cleaver (IL), , Rosa DeLauro (CA), Bob Filner (CA), Kendrick Meek (FL), Gregory Meeks (NY), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D.C.), Laura Richardson (CA), Bobby Rush (IL), Danny K. Davis (IL), Barbara Lee (CA) and Bennie Thompson (MS). The Commission on Improving Long-term Care and Community Services Act of 2010 is supported by: National Alliance for Caregiving, The National Caucus and Center on Black Aged, Inc (NCBA)., American Association of Homes and Services for the Aging (AAHSA), Alliance for Aging Research, and Association of Jewish Aging Services of North America. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Hastings_COMMISSION_BILL_on_Long-term_Care_4.29.2010.pdf
04.23.2010	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) will deliver the following remarks for this week’s Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) “Message to America” radio address. Hastings who is the Co-Chairman of the Democratic Caucus’ Jobs Task Force will discuss the CBC’s efforts on job creation. The CBC “Message to America” is distributed nationwide to the American Urban Radio Network’s (AURN) affiliate stations and will broadcast at 5:10 PM (EST) on April 23 via closed circuit feed. Hastings will deliver the following remarks: “Hello. This is Congressman Alcee Hastings from Florida’s 23rd Congressional District. I am honored to join you for this week’s Congressional Black Caucus Message to America. “For some time now the Congressional Black Caucus has been focusing our efforts on finding solutions for the chronically unemployed. Our current economic recession has left millions of Americans without jobs, forcing families and individuals to get by on reduced incomes, or sometimes no income at all. “While the national unemployment rate has gone below 10 percent, unemployment for black Americans is still over 16 percent. Black Americans experience longer stretches of unemployment than the general population, and minority-owned businesses have been hit particularly hard. This presents a troubling racial and economic disparity that deserves national attention. “But of the many aspects of unemployment and economic recovery that we can speak about, I want to particularly address youth employment. The fact of the matter is that these difficult economic times are hitting young folks – and especially minority young people – the hardest, creating an entire generation that is missing out on crucial opportunities to integrate into the workforce at an early age. This will have an enormous impact on their future earnings, their ability to attend higher education, and on the likelihood that they and their families will fall into poverty and insecurity. Even now, families who desperately need the income from summer youth employment will have to do without, squeezing their budgets even harder than they were before. “The African American community has been hit especially hard by the lack of youth employment. African American teens are unemployed at a rate of almost 40 percent, nearly double that of the general population. In the long term, this reality makes it even harder for the young members of our community to access higher education and pull themselves out of poverty. “I am pleased to report that the Congressional Black Caucus has been successful in securing federal funding for job creation and economic development, including for employment opportunities aimed at minority youth. “The CBC has secured over $2.5 billion this year for direct job creation and to help people transition out of poverty through the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program. The House of Representatives also recently approved over $600 million to create over 300,000 jobs. The CBC is advocating that those funds be doubled, and concentrated specifically on the creation of summer jobs, which directly benefit local communities and provide critical work experience for young people. “Although the economy shows sign of improving, we must work hard to ensure that all Americans are lifted up. Minority communities are especially vulnerable to the downswings in our economy, and so we must ensure that the federal government provides the necessary funds to increase opportunities, especially for young people. The Congressional Black Caucus is fighting hard to reduce inequality, combat injustice, and set our communities on a path to prosperity. “Once again, this is Congressman Alcee Hastings. Thank you for listening.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
04.22.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) released the following statement marking the 40th anniversary of Earth Day: “Forty years ago, Former Senator Gaylord Nelson sparked a movement that brought awareness to environmental issues and helped change the way people treat the Earth. I congratulate the Earth Day Network for its efforts in organizing and promoting Earth Day 2010. “Environmental and wildlife issues have been close to my heart and a top priority of mine throughout my entire career. My opposition to offshore drilling is unwavering. My dedication to restoration of the Everglades is unwavering. “And, as the climate change battle continues, I will be on the frontlines fighting to ensure a livable world for our children and grandchildren. I hope that this year’s Earth Day celebration inspires many others to join me in preserving and protecting our Earth’s environment.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
04.22.2010	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) is pioneering the fight in Congress to end homelessness across the nation. The establishment of the bi-partisan Congressional Caucus on Homelessness is a significant step to bring attention to this sad reality and find solutions to end homelessness among individuals, families, children, youth, and veterans. The mission of the caucus will be to educate Members of Congress and their staff on the many issues affecting the homeless. Hastings will co-chair the Caucus with Reps. Judy Biggert (R-IL), Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), and Geoff Davis (R-KY). “We live in a country where a large number of people do not have a place they can call home or even a safe place to spend their nights. This is unacceptable and I will continue to push legislation and initiatives to combat this crisis,” said Hastings. “I take great pride in bringing this caucus together and am looking forward to working alongside my distinguished colleagues on such an important matter.” Studies indicate that on any given night in America, anywhere from 700,000 to 2 million people are homeless. In 2009, the National Coalition for the Homeless issued a study, which found that during the past two decades there has been a significant increase in homelessness throughout the United States. In the wake of the recession, increases in homelessness also have been reported by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, public schools, and local homeless service agencies. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
04.21.2010	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) is pleased to accept the 2009 Silver Mouse Award for his official Web site from the Congressional Management Foundation (CMF). The CMF’s biennial Gold Mouse Project evaluation recognizes the best Web sites on Capitol Hill as part of a continual effort to improve Member-constituent communication. All Member, committee, and leadership Web sites are thoroughly evaluated based on issue content, constituent casework, timeliness, and usability. “I would like to thank the Congressional Management Foundation for recognizing my Congressional Web site with its Silver Mouse Award. It is vital to my work in Congress that my Web site is accessible, informative, and helpful to the people of Florida’s 23rd Congressional district as well as all visitors,” said Hastings. “I greatly value the CMF’s feedback, which helps Congressional Members like myself more effectively utilize new technologies in order to best serve our constituents, and am committed to making my Web site the best it can be,” further noted Hastings. Hastings’ Web site was also a recipient of the Silver Mouse Award in 2007. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
04.20.2010	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) expressed sadness upon learning of the death of leading civil rights advocate Dr. Dorothy Height, who died today at the age of 98. “With the passing of Dr. Dorothy Height we have lost a legend who dedicated her life to building up justice and tearing down inequality,” Hastings said. “My condolences go out to Dr. Height’s family and friends. “At a time when civil rights leaders were mostly all men, Dr. Height was there as the matriarch of the movement, building the strategy that created a more just and free world for us all,” Hastings further noted. “From the Presidential Medal of Freedom she received in 1994 from President Bill Clinton to the Congressional Gold Medal President George W. Bush presented her on her 92nd birthday in 2004, the importance of Dr. Height’s civil rights work was lost on no one. “As National President of the National Council of Negro Women and Director of the Center for Racial Justice of the national YWCA, millions were touched by Dr. Height’s vision of justice and passion for improving the human condition. May her legacy of championing social causes and affecting needed change, continue to inspire young women and men to stand up for what is right.” Dr. Height served as president of the National Council of Negro Women from 1957 until 1997 and led the organization during the height of the civil rights movement in the 1960’s. With the YWCA, she was instrumental in helping with desegregation within the organization. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
04.15.2010	Today on the House floor, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) congratulated Congressman Ted Deutch (D-Boca Raton) on his recent victory in the special election for Florida’s 19th Congressional district. Deutch succeeds former Democratic Congressman Robert Wexler, who retired from the House of Representatives in January of 2010 to head the Center for Middle East Peace. “Ted brings with him a common sense and results-driven approach that distinguished him during his time in the Florida State Senate, where he wrote and passed landmark legislation, including a health care bill that will raise $1 billion for essential health services for Floridians,” said Hastings. Deutch had been a member of the Florida State Senate since 2007, where he served as Vice Chair of the Senate Committee on Regulated Industries and the Policy and Steering Committee on Ways and Means. “Throughout his career in public service, Ted has fought on behalf of those who risk losing the most, including seniors, working families, children, Holocaust survivors, veterans, members of the Armed Forces, and small businesses. He is a true defender of equal rights and stands firmly against discrimination in all its forms, whether it is based on race, gender, age, religion, or sexual orientation,” further noted Hastings. Deutch is a widely-respected leader in the community and an active philanthropist. His efforts and dedication to public service have been recognized by the Jewish Federation of South Palm Beach County, which honored him with the James and Marjorie Baer Leadership Award. He also is the recipient of the Florida Education Association’s Champion of Public Education Award and the prestigious Harry S. Truman Scholarship. “I have worked alongside Ted as a leader in the community and as a legislator. I know him well and am confident that he will do an excellent job representing Florida’s 19th Congressional district. It is an honor to welcome Ted into our Congressional family.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
04.13.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced the White House Conference on Haiti Act of 2010, a bill directing the President to convene a White House Conference on Haiti within the next calendar year. (Please find attached a copy of the bill) “If there is a silver lining to the unimaginable tragedy facing Haiti, it is that out of this, the Haitian people have been given the incredible opportunity to right the wrongs of the past and rebuild their nation stronger than ever before,” Hastings stated. “We cannot let this opportunity go to waste.” The January 12th, 7.0 magnitude earthquake impacted nearly one-third of Haiti’s population. Prior to the earthquake, there were already nearly 10,000 nongovernmental organizations operating in Haiti and foreign aid made up a significant portion of the nation’s budget. In its aftermath, the international community has pledged over $5 billion to aid in the reconstruction in addition to the efforts of countless private organizations. “However, with the possibility to do good comes the very real possibility of waste, duplication, and inefficiencies in the rebuilding and recovery process,” Hastings continued. “Under this bill, the major stakeholders in rebuilding, along with other interested parties, will come together to share their knowledge and best practices and identify gaps in the recovery process. It is my hope that out of this Conference, opportunities for collaboration and coordination in projects big and small will emerge. “Most importantly, the White House Conference on Haiti will help ensure that the challenges facing the Haitian people remain in the public eye and in the minds of all Americans. This legislation would not be a costly endeavor, but could stand to save millions of dollars that could be used to improve the lives of the Haitian people for generations to come.” Joining Congressman Hastings as original co-sponsors (20) are: Representatives John Conyers, Jr. (MI), Kendrick B. Meek (FL), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL), Edolphus Towns (NY), Corrine Brown (FL), Janice D. Schakowsky (IL), Yvette D. Clarke (NY), Charles B. Rangel (NY), Diane E. Watson (CA), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL), Marcia L. Fudge (OH), Jesse L. Jackson, Jr. (IL), John Lewis (GA), Donna M. Christensen (VI), Raul M. Grijalva (AZ), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), Laura Richardson (CA), Bobby L. Rush (IL), Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan (MP), and Anh “Joseph” Cao (LA). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### White_House_Conference_on_Haiti_4.13.2010.pdf
04.01.2010	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on President Obama's proposal to open waters off Florida's coast to offshore drilling: “The President’s proposal is extremely upsetting both for me and the people of Florida. Notwithstanding the environmental concerns, Florida’s $65 billion per-year tourism and fishing industries are dependent on clean beaches and clear water that are now in jeopardy. While I appreciate President Obama’s desire to cut waste, save energy, and reduce our dependence on foreign oil, these goals are accomplished by developing sustainable, clean energy and promoting responsible consumption practices, not by drilling for more oil closer to home. “The future of the United States’ economy is dependent upon our country being at the forefront of the next generation of sustainable energy. Instead, this proposal is more of the same and is leaving us even further behind the technological curve. “This new proposal asks Congress to take back our promise to the people of Florida, while giving them very little in return. I’ve said it before and I will say a thousand times more if I have to, I will be the last man standing in the fight to prevent expanded offshore oil drilling in Florida.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
03.19.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) announced that he will support the health care reform bill, which is expected to come to the House floor for a vote this weekend. “Despite the unquestionable need for health care reform, some have sought to dominate the health care reform discussion with fear mongering, misinterpretations, and misinformation,” noted Hastings. “It is time to move forward and pass this critically important bill to extend health coverage to millions of Americans.” “I am getting a little tired of hearing some of my colleagues talk about socialism and the government take-over of health care. These individuals believe we should eliminate Medicare, eliminate Medicaid, eliminate the Social Security safety net, eliminate the Centers for Disease Control, and eliminate the National Institutes of Health. All of these are government-run programs. In the greatest country in the world, it is morally wrong for millions of our fellow Americans to not have affordable health care. We all should be willing to share in order to help the least of us,” Hastings further noted. “The desire to pass the health care reform bill hits close to home. Florida has the sixth highest number of uninsured people in the country and the majority of the uninsured reside in the southern part of the state.” Approximately four million Floridians live without health insurance and the state loses $3.5 billion annually in uncompensated care. Floridians spend $19.4 billion each year in out-of-pocket spending, and most of Florida’s small businesses are unable to afford health care benefits for their employees. In the 23rd district alone, the reform bill would extend insurance coverage to 161,000 residents, improve Medicare coverage for nearly 80,000 beneficiaries, and provide tax credits and assistance to thousands of families and small businesses to make health insurance more affordable. “Across this nation, Americans have lost their homes, jobs, health insurance, and hope. We cannot afford to back down. We must pass this health care bill and deliver the reform that Florida and this country need and deserve. I am committed to working with my colleagues in Congress to ensure that quality and affordable health care is no longer a privilege from some, but a guaranteed right for all,” said Hastings. In Hastings’ district (FL-23), the health care reform bill will (Source – House Energy & Commerce Committee): Improve coverage for 290,000 residents with health insurance. Give tax credits and other assistance to up to 177,000 families and 22,500 small businesses to help them afford coverage. Improve Medicare for 79,000 beneficiaries, including closing the donut hole. Extend coverage to 161,000 uninsured residents. Guarantee that 24,600 residents with pre-existing conditions can obtain coverage. Protect 1,100 families from bankruptcy due to unaffordable health care costs. Allow 60,000 young adults to obtain coverage on their parents’ insurance plans. Provide millions of dollars in new funding for 21 community health centers. Reduce the cost of uncompensated care for hospitals and other health care providers by $69 million annually. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
03.12.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced a resolution expressing the sense of the House of Representatives regarding the policy of the United States on wild animals at the Conference of the Parties of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES). (Please find attached a copy of the legislation) CITES was created in 1973 to regulate international trade in endangered species to ensure that it does not threaten their survival. Launched with a few signatory nations, CITES has now 175 parties that have an international obligation and responsibility to protect endangered animals and plants worldwide. Adherence to these protective measures has proven to have benefited the conservation of animals and plants worldwide. “Unfortunately, more and more species are at risk of extinction and international trade, both legal and illegal, has exacerbated the dangers. International wildlife trade is estimated to be worth billions of dollars a year and to include hundreds of millions of live plants and animals and derived products such as food, leather, fur, ivory, and timber. Such high levels of exploitation of and trade in wild animals and plants, together with other factors such as habitat loss, are capable of bringing some species close to extinction,” said Hastings. Between 1979 and 1989 more than 600,000 African elephants were killed for their ivory, cutting the continent’s population in half. Nevertheless, poaching has continued with an estimated 38,000 elephants killed annually and 23.2 tons of poached ivory seized since 2007. As sea ice declines, polar bears will not be able to adapt to a terrestrial-based life resulting in increased mortality, reduced reproduction, increased human-bear conflicts, and overall drastic decline of populations. Bobcats keep being poached for their skins. Several sharks are been severely depleted with declines as high as 99 percent in some areas as a result of the high demand for their fins and meat. Overfishing, increased consumer demand and inadequate enforcement of infractions have led to historically low populations of bluefin tuna. This month, CITES’ signatory nations will meet for the 15th Conference of the Parties to review the status of species in danger of extinction and establish trade restrictions. The Conference will consider proposals offered by several countries to either enhance protections of endangered species or to remove or downlist some animals from the endangered species listings and reauthorize international trade. “Several countries which benefit from trade of animals’ derived products, such as elephants’ ivory, sharks’ fins or bluefin tunas’ meat, are putting economic interests before wild animals’ survival, risking to bring species close to extinction. This is unacceptable. My resolution will help preserve many endangered animals by urging CITES to accept proposals that protect these species and oppose those proposals that put them in greater danger.” “The United States has a moral obligation to protect endangered species and their natural habitat. Wild animals are a very important part of our commonly held natural resources and contribute to the diversity and stability of our environment. We must continue to maintain a balanced and healthy ecosystem that allows for the coexistence of both human beings and the world’s most incredible species,” further noted Hastings. Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors of the legislation include: Representatives Barbara Lee, Eni F. H. Faleomavaega and Debbie Wasserman Schultz. Endorsing organization: the Animal Welfare Institute. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Resolution_on_CITES.doc.pdf
03.10.2010	Tonight, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) and Congressman Al Green (D-TX) introduced a resolution congratulating the Nation Urban League on its Centennial Anniversary. The League will be hosting a conference in Washington from July 28 to 31, 2010, celebrating 100 years of service to the country. (Please find attached a copy of the resolution) “From humble beginnings, the National Urban League has become the famed organization that it is today,” said Hastings. “I am immensely proud of my own affiliation with the Urban League, going back over 35 years. In 1974, I was one of the founding members of the National Urban League of Broward County, the 104th affiliate chapter in the United States. Our goal then was to help alleviate some of the racial tensions felt throughout the community during desegregation. I went on to serve on the original board of directors for the local chapter, where we worked to empower the community, increase educational opportunities for our children, and change lives through strong advocacy for essential public services. I am pleased to add that we enjoyed numerous successes.” “Although we can take great pride in the many outstanding accomplishments of the National Urban League, its work is far from over. As part of its effort to galvanize greater action, the League recently began an initiative called “I AM EMPOWERED,” a social mobilization campaign of volunteers to increase awareness of the League’s efforts to achieve further progress in education, jobs, housing, and health care. With 100 years of experience behind them, the hard working and dedicated men and women of the National Urban League are well poised to carry forth its important mission through the next century of progress,” Hastings further noted. Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors include: Reps. Al Green, Sanford Bishop, Corinne Brown, Andre Carson, Judy Chu, Yvette Clarke, Steve Cohen, Gerry Connolly, John Conyers, Elijah Cummings, Danny Davis, Keith Ellison, Marcia Fudge, John Garamendi, Ruben Hinojosa, Jesse Jackson, Jr., Eddie Bernice Johnson, Carolyn Kilpatrick, Ron Klein, Barbara Lee, John Lewis, Betty McCollum, Greg Meeks, Gwen Moore, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Don Payne, Laura Richardson, Dutch Ruppersberger, Bobby Scott, Betty Sutton, Michael Turner, Chris Van Hollen, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Alan Grayson and Brian Baird. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### National_Urban_League_Resolution_3.2010.pdf
02.26.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) lauded the passage by the House of Representatives of an amendment he introduced to H.R. 2701, the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010. Hastings’ amendment seeks to enhance the diversity of the intelligence community’s workforce. It requires the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (DNI), in coordination with the heads of the elements of the Intel community, to submit to Congress a report on the plans of each element of the community, including the DNI, to increase diversity within that element. The amendment passed by a vote of 401 to 11. (Please find attached a copy of the amendment) “I have stated time and again that the Intelligence Community is not diverse enough to do its job of stealing and analyzing foreign countries’ secrets. Diversity is a mission imperative,” Hastings asserted. “We need people who blend in, speak the language, and understand the cultures in the countries that we are targeting.” “It is time for the Intelligence Community to get serious about improving diversity for the sake of our national security,” further noted Hastings. “Diversity means hiring. Hiring more Arab-Americans. It means hiring more Iranian-Americans, more Pakistani-Americans, more Chinese-Americans, and more Korean-Americans. If the Intelligence Community is to succeed in its global mission, it must have a global face.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Rep._Alcee_L._Hastings_Amendment_to_H.R._2701_FLR-DIVERSITY_001_xml.pdf
02.23.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced a resolution that commemorates the 20th anniversary of the release of Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela from prison and recognizes his lifelong dedication to democracy, racial equality and building a more united world. (Please find attached a copy of the resolution) “I am proud to introduce this resolution celebrating the 20th anniversary of an important moment in world history,” said Hastings. “Nelson Mandela was an extraordinary man who dedicated his life to equality, peace and reconciliation.” On February 11, 1990, 71 year-old Nelson Mandela walked free from Victor Verster Prison in Paarl, South Africa after 27 years of imprisonment. His release resulted from decades of international pressure from activists, artists and politicians in South Africa and the international community, and was a defining moment in the movement to end apartheid and discrimination. “Two decades after his release and over 15 years after he was elected President of South Africa, Nelson Mandela’s wisdom, strength and work continues to inspire people from all walks of life. I am truly honored to recognize his achievements and urge swift passage of this important resolution,” Hastings further noted. Joining Congressman Hastings as original co-sponsors (38) are: Representatives Howard Berman (CA), Charles Rangel (NY), Gary Ackerman (NY), Sanford Bishop, Jr. (GA), Madeleine Bordallo (GU), Corrine Brown (FL), Kathy Castor (FL), Steve Cohen (TN), John Conyers (MI), Ander Crenshaw (FL), Joseph Crowley (NY), Elijah Cummings (MD), Eliot Engel (NY), Eni Faleomanvaega (AS), Chaka Fattah (PA), Marcia Fudge (OH), Al Green (TX), Raul Grijalva (AZ), Mike Honda (CA), Bob Inglis (SC), Sheila Jackson-Lee (TX), Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX), Henry “Hank” Johnson, Jr. (GA), Carolyn Kilpatrick (MI), John Lewis (GA), Jim McDermott (WA), James McGovern (MA), Gregory Meeks (NY), Gwen Moore (WI), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), Donald Payne (NJ), Jared Polis (CO), Laura Richardson (CA), Bobby Rush (IL), Linda Sanchez (CA), Bennie Thompson (MS), Edolphus Towns (NY) and Diane Watson (CA). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Mandela_Resolution_-_2.2010.pdf
02.23.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced a resolution that recognizes the Senate Armed Services Committee’s hearing on Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell, and the testimony of Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates and Admiral Michael G. Mullen, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, at the hearing, as an important first step towards equality in the Armed Forces. Furthermore, Hastings’ resolution expresses the sense of the House of Representatives that the discriminatory law should be repealed in 2010. (Please find attached a copy of the resolution) “The misguided policy known as Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell is yet another enemy to fight at a time when we are strained in two wars. In 2009 alone, we lost 428 service members to Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell at the estimated cost of over $12 million. We cannot allow the strength and unity of our military to suffer from a destructive force within,” said Hastings. “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell is irreconcilable with the values that our great nation was built on and the values that our Armed Forces embody. Defense Secretary Gates and Admiral Mullen’s testimony sent a clear signal across the nation and through the military ranks that discrimination is not a value of our Armed Forces,” further noted Hastings. “It is my sincere hope that President Obama, the Department of Defense, the U.S. military, and Congress will do everything in their power to allow gay and lesbian Americans to serve openly as soon as possible.” Hastings’ resolution also urges the Pentagon working group to deliver an implementation plan to Congress as soon as possible while ensuring that the needs and concerns of all service members are taken into consideration, and strongly recommends that the Senate Armed Services Committee and House Armed Services Committee’s Subcommittee on Military Personnel include active-duty service members in their upcoming hearings regarding Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell. Joining Congressman Hastings as original co-sponsors (26) are: Representatives James P. Moran (VA), Jackie Speier (CA), Sam Farr (CA), Raul M. Grijalva (AZ), Mike Honda (CA), Luis V. Gutierrez (IL), Chellie Pingree (ME), Shelley Berkley (NV), Diane Watson (CA), Barney Frank (MA), Carolyn Kilpatrick (MI), Judy Chu (CA), Bob Filner (CA), Donna M. Christensen (VI), Laura Richardson (CA), Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA), Steve Israel (NY), Maurice Hinchey (NY), Howard L. Berman (CA), John D. Dingell (MI), Elijah E. Cummings (MD), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX), Edolphus Towns (NY), John Lewis (GA), Mike Michaud (ME), and Jared Polis (CO). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Congressman_Alcee_L._Hastings_Resolution_on_Dont_Ask_Dont_Tell_-_02.22.10.pdf
02.03.2010	Tonight, the House of Representatives passed an amendment introduced by Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) to H.R. 4061, the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act. Hastings’ amendment addresses the lack of minority representation in the cybersecurity industry—including women and African-Americans, Hispanics, and Native Americans. The amendment adds language to describe how successful programs are engaging said minorities and addresses a plan of action to include minority-serving institutions on the Cybersecurity University-Industry Task Force. The amendment passed by a vote of 417 to 5. (Please find attached a copy of the amendment). “I was disappointed, though, to discover the significant gender and racial disparities in the cybersecurity industry. We know cyberspace touches practically everything and everyone and, yet, I find it mind-boggling that we haven’t made more of an effort to include everyone in protecting it,” Hastings said. “If we are going to address cybersecurity workforce concerns and advance the development of technical standards, we need to consider all of the different innovative opportunities out there.” “Women now constitute 50.7 percent of the US population as of 2008 and the US Census Bureau found that only 14 percent of women pursue professional careers in science or technology. Other underrepresented groups mentioned in my amendment include African-Americans, Hispanics, and Native Americans. All of these groups have historically been underrepresented in scientific and engineering occupations. The US Census Bureau recorded African-Americans, Hispanics, and Native Americans as 28.2 percent of the US population in 2008 and, yet, these groups only represent a mere 10 percent of the science and technology industry.” Hastings added, “In order to protect cyberspace, we need a strong vision and leadership. Both will require changes in policy, technology, education, and perhaps law. This bill will be recruiting the best and brightest and we must ensure these opportunities are available to all Americans.” Joining Hastings as an original co-sponsor of the amendment: Representative Ciro Rodriguez (D-TX). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### HASTINGS_AMENDMENT_to_HR_4061_Cybersecurity_Enhancement_Act_2-1-10.pdf
02.02.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in response to the Senate Armed Services Committee’s hearing on the discriminatory policy known as Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell. “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell continues to hurt our troops, runs counter to the values of our Armed Forces, and threatens our national security. Last year, we lost 428 service members to Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell at the cost of over $12 million. It is about time that we get serious about repealing this bigoted law once and for all. “I applaud Defense Secretary Gates and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Admiral Mullen for sharing their support and plan for bringing about the repeal of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell. It is my sincere hope that the high-level working group led by Pentagon General Counsel Jeh Johnson and General Carter Ham will deliver the information that Congress needs to finally repeal this law. “While these are indeed historic steps in the right direction, I am concerned that, under the current review and implementation timeframe proposed, our brave gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender (GLBT) service members will not be able to serve openly for at least another few years. Furthermore, while I welcome interim proposals within 45 days to mitigate the effects of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell, the fact of the matter is that being gay in the military means either staying in the closet or risking discharge. “As Vice-Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, I cannot stress enough how important all our service members are to our operations around the world. “In his testimony, Secretary Gates stated that the review group will need to ‘engage men and women in uniform and their families’ in order to assess their views regarding the effects of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell repeal and implementation. The very nature of this law prevents service members from speaking openly, and both the U.S. military and Congress will need a way to obtain this critical information. “In December, I introduced H.R. 4180, the Honest and Open Testimony Act. My bill helps provide for an honest and open discussion regarding Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell repeal by allowing active-duty members of the Armed Forces, including GLBT members, to openly testify in Congressional hearings and share their ideas concerning implementation without fear of retribution. “As far as I am concerned, this law should have been repealed long ago. It is time to take action and to replace Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell with a policy of non-discrimination and inclusion. I remain committed, as I always have been, to doing everything in my power to make this happen as soon as possible.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
01.28.2010	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in response to President Obama's call to repeal Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell during his State of the Union address: “I am pleased that President Obama has called for the repeal of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell this year, but his words have left me with more questions than answers. We have heard his promises to repeal Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell reiterated time and again, but not exactly when or how he plans to achieve this. “Over the course of the past year, I have urged President Obama on multiple occasions to address this important national security issue once and for all. “Last June, I sent President Obama a letter along with 76 fellow Members of Congress asking him to help us put an end to further Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell discharges. “In July, I offered an amendment to the Defense Appropriations Act that would have prohibited the use of funds to carry out key provisions in Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell. I ultimately withdrew my amendment due to pressure from the White House and some of my colleagues in House leadership. “Having received no response to my first letter, I sent a second letter to President Obama in August exhorting his administration to make Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell a priority and to do everything in its power to bring about repeal. “It is important to note that time is of the essence. As 30,000 more troops prepare to deploy to Afghanistan in the coming months, the Senate Armed Services Committee and House Military Personnel Subcommittee intend to hold hearings on Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell that will determine the pace of repeal efforts. Furthermore, there are currently no plans to include active-duty service members, gay or straight, in either discussion regarding repeal implementation. “We have two historic opportunities to bring us closer to final repeal than ever before. That is why I introduced H.R. 4180, the Honest and Open Testimony Act, in December. My bill helps provide for an honest and open discussion regarding Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell repeal by allowing active-duty members of the Armed Forces, including gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender (GLBT) members, to openly testify in Congressional hearings and share their ideas concerning implementation without fear of retribution. “Unless we resolve to back up our words with actions, the over 65,000 GLBT service members currently on active-duty will have to stay in the closet this year. The Obama administration must work with the Department of Defense, the U.S. military, and Congress to ensure the repeal of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell in 2010.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
01.27.2010	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in response to President Obama's State of the Union address: “Across the nation, millions of Americans are unemployed and millions more are struggling to make ends meet, including in my own district in South Florida and the Treasure Coast. The American people need more than eloquent words right now, they need real jobs. Congress must take bold action to get Americans back to work. As Co-Chairman of the Democratic Caucus’ Jobs Task Force, I am deeply committed to implementing a comprehensive jobs plan with my colleagues in Congress that will spur job creation and grow our economy. “The United States spends more on health care than any other country in the world, and yet, the high cost of care has not brought a high standard of health for millions of Americans. This issue hits close to home for Florida. A recent census report listed Florida as the 4th worst in the nation in terms of uninsured individuals. More than 2 million workers in Florida were living without health coverage last year. I am committed to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure that quality and affordable health care is no longer a privilege for some, but a guaranteed right for all. “Amidst the discussion about Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, airport screening, and prison facilities, there is one essential element not being talked about: our nation’s detainment policy. Simply put: we don’t have one. We have instead a patchwork of haphazard policies which make up a system that endangers our national security, violates the Constitution, and undermines international human rights. The failure to establish a uniform process consistent with the rule of law and America’s values sabotages our counterterrorism efforts and provides al-Qaeda with a prime recruiting tool. In October, after months of consultations with Obama administration officials, key Members of Congress, human rights organizations, and other experts, I introduced H.R. 3728, the Detainment Reform Act, which creates a transparent and accountable system of justice to process detainees under United States control. It is time to move beyond the debate about Guantanamo and create a system that protects our national security, upholds human rights, and improves America’s image around the world. “I am pleased that President Obama has called for the repeal of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell. It is important to note that time is of the essence. These brave men and women are linguists, aviators, medics, and highly-trained soldiers who are involved in valuable operations that have nothing to do with their sexual orientation and everything to do with protecting American lives and advancing our national security interests. Each discharge represents millions of dollars worth of lost talent and funding necessary to retrain new recruits. Our military is already strained, and with another 30,000 more troops being deployed to Afghanistan, we must again ask ourselves, what is the point of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell? Let us finally close history’s chapter on Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell and address other issues central to gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender (GLBT) equality, such as employment discrimination and repealing the Defense of Marriage Act. “Our nation faces many significant challenges and the road ahead will not be easy. It is time for Congress and the administration to work together to improve the lives of all Americans,” said Hastings. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
01.26.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced the Veterans Pensions Protection Act, legislation that will protect veterans from losing their pension benefits because they received payments to cover expenses incurred after an accident, theft, loss or casualty loss. (Please find attached a copy of the legislation) “My legislation will fix a loophole under existing law to ensure that pensions are issued to veterans who legitimately meet the income criteria and rely on such benefits to survive,” said Hastings. Currently, if a veteran is seriously injured in an accident or the victim of a theft and receives insurance compensation to cover his/or her medical expenses or the cost of replacement of the stolen items, he/or she will likely lose their pension. “Such a tragedy happened to one of my constituents, a disabled veteran with muscular dystrophy who was hit by a truck when crossing the street in his wheelchair. His pension was abruptly cut off after he received an insurance settlement payment to cover medical expenses for himself and his service dog, and material expenses to replace his wheelchair. As a result, he could not cover his daily expenses and mortgage payments and almost lost his home. This to me is unacceptable,” Hastings further noted. The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) considers a variety of sources of revenue to determine a veteran’s annual income. If such income exceeds the income limit set by the VA, the veteran does not qualify for a pension or loses his/or her benefits. The VA considers any reimbursement that compensates a veteran for their expenses due to accidents, theft or loss as income. The Veterans Pensions Protection Act will exempt these reimbursements from being included into the determination of a veteran’s income. “Current law effectively punishes veterans when they suffer from such an accident, theft or loss. My legislation will ensure that no veteran will have their benefits unfairly depreciated or cancelled. After serving our country so valiantly, our veterans deserve no less than the very best benefits.” Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors of the legislation include: Representatives Laura Richardson, Steve Israel, Larry Kissel, Kendrick Meek, Tim Walz, Corrine Brown, Heath Shuler, Steve Buyer, Betty Sutton, John Hall, Tom Rooney, Eric Massa, Ron Klein, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Madeleine Bordallo, Raul Grijalva, Steve Kagen, Dana Rohrabacher, and Vern Buchanan. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Veterans_Pensions_Protection_Act_of_2010.pdf
01.25.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the launch of South Florida’s newest gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender (GLBT) weekly newspaper, South Florida Gay News.com (SFGN). SFGN was founded by Broward criminal defense attorney and gay rights advocate Norm Kent. “The first issue of South Florida Gay News.com is truly an exciting and important event. South Florida has long been home to a proud, diverse, and active GLBT community,” said Hastings. “South Florida Gay News.com is more than a newspaper; it is an opportunity for South Florida’s GLBT community to reconnect with itself and the community at large on issues and events spanning the full spectrum of gay American life,” further noted Hastings. “I wish Norm all the best in his new venture and greatly look forward to reading future issues of South Florida Gay News.com.” Over 12,000 copies of SFGN will be published and distributed on Mondays to more than 300 locations in Dade, Broward, and Palm Beach Counties. A web version is available at (www.southfloridagaynews.com). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
01.21.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced the Wildlife and Zoological Veterinary Medicine Enhancement Act. This legislation will develop affordable and well-qualified opportunities for individuals who are seeking to become wildlife and zoo veterinarians, spur job growth, and promote robust public health policy. (Please find attached a copy of the legislation) “Wildlife and zoo veterinarians are the primary source of essential health care for, and management of, wild animals in their natural habitat and in captivity. Not only do they preserve natural resources and animal lives, but they help protect human health by preventing, detecting, and responding to exotic and dangerous diseases,” said Hastings. In spite of a growing threat to public health posed by emerging infectious diseases as well as higher risks of large-scale outbreaks, the United States continues to face a shortage of positions for wildlife and zoo veterinarians. This shortage, combined with lower salaries, high educational debt, and insufficient numbers of practical training and formal educational programs specializing in wildlife and zoo veterinary medicine, has dissuaded students from studying and practicing wildlife and zoo veterinary medicine. “My bill will create new positions for wildlife and zoo veterinarians and limit the amount of educational debt for students while providing incentives to study and practice wildlife and zoo veterinary medicine. My legislation will also advance education by helping schools develop pilot curricula specializing in wildlife and zoo veterinary medicine and by expanding the number of practical training programs available to students,” added Hastings. “We applaud the leadership and vision of Congressman Hastings for introducing this meaningful legislation which enhances the highly skilled wildlife and zoo veterinary workforce and also creates additional green jobs critically needed at this time,” said John F. Calvelli, Executive Vice President of Public Affairs, Wildlife Conservation Society. “The American Veterinary Medical Association commends Congressman Hastings and his staff for championing legislation that could revolutionize the practice of wildlife and zoological medicine. The Wildlife and Zoological Veterinary Medicine Enhancement Act of 2010 insures that our country will have a sufficient number of veterinarians trained to deal with zoo and wildlife populations,” further noted Mark T. Lutschaunig, Director of the Governmental Relations Division, American Veterinary Medical Association. Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors of the legislation include: Representatives Donna Christensen, Raul Grijalva, Madeleine Bordallo and Henry Brown Jr. Endorsing organizations: the Wildlife Conservation Society, the American Veterinary Medical Association, the American Association of Wildlife Veterinarians, the National Association of Federal Veterinarians, and the Association of Zoos and Aquariums. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Wildlife_and_Zoological_Veterinary_Medicine_Enhancement_Act_of_2010.doc.pdf
01.16.2010	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the designation by DHS Secretary Napolitano of Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Haitian nationals in the United States: “Secretary Napolitano's announcement comes at an extremely critical time for Haiti. It is an announcement that was not only much-needed, but long overdue,” said Hastings. “As Haiti embarks on the road to recovery, I will be a steadfast partner and will serve as a voice for the needs of the Haitian people. “I am continuing a lifelong fight to end double standard immigration practices for Haitian migrants. I and others have been actively engaged in calling for TPS of Haitian nationals for years and have continuously called upon current and previous administrations to address this matter. “In Congress, I authored key legislation H.R. 144, the Haitian Protection Act, legislation which would designate Haitian nationals in the United States as eligible for TPS. “While I am pleased this announcement has been made, we must remember that past circumstances should have prompted this long before now.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
01.15.2010	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) issued the following statement in commemoration of the 24th annual Martin Luther King, Jr. Day that will be celebrated on Monday, January 18, 2010: “As we celebrate the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., we must remember his dedication to public service as a way to combat inequalities, unify people, and build stronger communities. His commitment to public service and reform is particularly poignant in the aftermath of the devastating earthquake in Haiti, the countless Americans who are struggling to find jobs and provide for their families, and the millions of Americans who live without health care,” said Hastings. “Although we have made significant progress in the battle against discrimination and inequity, the long road to success still stretches before us. Disparities in employment, health, and wealth continue to persist among communities of color in the United States and abroad, and this will require comprehensive and sustainable interventions,” further noted Hastings. “Dr. King was a defining character of the civil rights era, but his message and goal to strive for the equality and well-being of all people is timeless. I encourage all Americans to recognize Martin Luther King, Jr. Day as a day to reflect on the achievements and legacy of this extraordinary man as well as a call to action to bring about progress in our local and global community.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
01.13.2010	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in response to the 7.0 magnitude earthquake that recently hit Haiti. “My thoughts and prayers are with the people of Haiti. Just when we thought Haiti was in the clear after a mild hurricane season, yet another natural disaster has rocked our hemisphere’s poorest country. The people of Haiti simply can’t seem to catch a break,” Hastings stated. “While I cannot understate the urgency with which the United States and the international community must provide humanitarian aid, this most recent disaster emphasizes the vital need for Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Haitian nationals currently residing in the United States. “This tragedy sadly highlights the fragile state of Haiti’s physical and economic infrastructure, and the people of Haiti simply cannot afford to wait for the United States to grant them this long overdue assistance,” Hastings continued. "By granting them TPS, Haitians currently in the United States would be able to legally work and contribute to their country's recovery. It is not only immoral, but irresponsible to continue to deny Haitians TPS.” Hastings is a leader in the fight to end double-standard immigration practices as they pertain to Haitian migrants. He is the author of H.R. 144, the Haitian Protection Act, legislation which would designate Haitian nationals in the United States as eligible for TPS, and he recently introduced H.Con.Res. 165, a bipartisan, concurrent resolution expressing Congress’ support for TPS. Hastings has been calling for the extension of TPS to Haitian nationals for years and has been continuously engaged with the current and previous administrations on this matter. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
01.13.2010	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement regarding the ongoing humanitarian efforts in Haiti: “Not enough sorrow can be expressed for the people of Haiti and all those affected by this tragic event. This earthquake was a horror of epic proportions. For years, Haitians have lived misery beyond human understanding. I pray that God will grant them the tenderest of mercies and that the governments of the world will collaborate with the highest caliber of relief and reconstruction assistance. “One thing that is not needed is a whole lot of politicians tripping over each other to show their newfound compassion for Haiti. The best thing for everyone is to allow those involved in relief efforts to do their job. At this most difficult time, the recovery effort must be free of politics and finger-pointing,” said Hastings. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
12.16.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced the Outpatient Mental Health Modernization Act of 2009, a bill that requires Medicare to reimburse Partial Hospitalization Programs (PHPS) for providing transportation, food and nutritional services to psychiatric patients. (Please find attached a copy of the bill) PHPs provide a structured and clinically intensive alternative to hospitalization for patients who otherwise might require sustained inpatient psychiatric hospitalization. PHP psychiatric patients typically receive four to six hours of treatment per day, five to six days a week in hospital-based settings and community mental health centers. However, Medicare does not cover the costs of nutritional planning, meals or transportation. Therefore, PHP facilities are responsible for the cost of providing food and transportation. Hastings commented, “The severity of the patient’s illness often prevents the individual from obtaining or seeking transportation to the PHP facility, or from accessing high quality food. Additionally, some psychiatric medications that are prescribed to the patient cannot be safely administered without food.” The Outpatient Mental Health Modernization Act of 2009 requires Medicare to reimburse PHPs for providing transportation and food and nutritional services. The bill also establishes a Behavioral Health Advisory Committee in which a diverse group of behavioral health stakeholders would examine and provide recommendations on how to address the persisting challenges of access, stigma, quality and operability in the mental health delivery system. The measure is a house companion to S. 1522, a bill that was introduced by Senator David Vitter (R-LA) on July 28, 2009. “The growing use and role of mental health PHPs in our health care system requires that we amend the law to assist PHPs in delivering the services, care and support to those who are living with severe and chronic mental illness,” Hastings further noted. Original co-sponsors: Reps. Kendrick B. Meek, John Barrow, Grace Napolitano, Shelia Jackson-Lee, Pete Stark, and Rodney Alexander. The Outpatient Mental Health Modernization Act of 2009 is supported by the National Association for Behavioral Health (NABH), Mental Health America, and the National Council for Community Behavioral Health Care. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Rep_Alcee_L_Hastings_Outpatient_Mental_Health_Moderization_Act_12.16.09.pdf
12.11.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) voted in favor of H.R. 4173, the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2009. Included in the Act was an amendment offered by Hastings that addresses geographic disparities in the cost of and access to insurance products. (Please find attached a copy of the amendment) “My home state of Florida is undoubtedly facing an insurance crisis. Homeowners are burdened by continuously increasing property insurance premiums or losing their insurance altogether while companies are going under or simply leaving the state,” Hastings said. “This poses a problem, not only to property owners who cannot afford increasing costs in this difficult economy, but also to the state, which has taken on the responsibility of covering those who cannot get insurance elsewhere, and to the federal government, which may be left to deal with the damage when disaster strikes. “We cannot change the fact that certain regions face higher risks than others,” Hastings added. “However, my amendment will help determine what changes to the industry and its regulation can help ensure that these necessary insurance protections are available, accessible, and reasonably affordable for all Americans.” The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act makes broad changes to financial regulations, expands the government's powers to deal with failing financial companies, establishes a new federal agency to monitor consumer financial products, and creates a Federal Insurance Office to advise the Treasury on insurance industry matters. Hastings’ amendment incorporates geographic disparities in the cost of and access to insurance products in a study on the modernization and improvement of the insurance industry to be conducted by the Federal Insurance Office. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Amendment_to_HR_4173_-_Wall_Street_Reform_and_Consumer_Protection_Act.pdf
12.08.2009	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar), Co-Chairman of the Democratic Caucus’ Congressional Task Force on Job Creation, made the following statement on President Obama’s speech regarding job creation and economic growth at the Brookings Institution: “It is one thing to simply say that high unemployment nationwide is unacceptable, and quite another to act on it. I am emboldened by President Obama’s speech today, in which he offered real ideas that will put Americans back to work. I look forward to working with the President and my colleagues in Congress to help turn these ideas into programs that will pull our country out of this recession and allow us to prosper once more. “Despite recent positive indications about our economic recovery, unemployment remains high. Millions of Americans are unable to find work, and I know that many of my constituents are struggling to make ends meet. I am deeply committed to ensuring that all Americans can take advantage of our nation's opportunities. “The hard work of the middle class and the creation of jobs in small businesses are the key to recovery, and it is in this aspect of our economy that we should focus our efforts.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
12.02.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced the Honest and Open Testimony Act, a bill that would help provide for an honest and open discussion regarding Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell by allowing active-duty members of the Armed Forces, including gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender (GLBT) members, to openly testify in Congressional hearings without fear of retribution. The Honest and Open Testimony Act expands current whistleblower protections between members of the Armed Forces and Members of Congress to include communications from active-duty service members who testify concerning Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell in a Congressional hearing, as well as those who do so and disclose their sexual orientation. “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell hurts our troops, runs counter to the values of our Armed Forces, and threatens our national security. Since the law was implemented in 1994, over 13,500 qualified service members have been lost to Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell, and counting. Furthermore, Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell continues to undermine and demoralize the more than 65,000 GLBT Americans currently serving on active duty,” said Hastings. “As the United States continues to work toward responsibly ending the war in Iraq and reengages the threat from al Qaeda in Afghanistan, our GLBT service members offer invaluable skills that enhance our military’s potency and readiness. They are linguists, aviators, medics, and highly-trained soldiers who are involved in valuable operations that have nothing to do with their sexual orientation and everything to do with protecting our freedom and advancing our national security interests. “I am extremely proud of the men and women who serve in our Armed Forces and truly appreciate the countless sacrifices they continue to make every single day to protect this nation and the American people. They deserve better than Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell, and now is the time to take action,” further noted Hastings. “I realize that this issue is considered controversial, but it should not be. As Congress prepares to debate the future of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell with hearings in the Senate and in the House of Representatives, we must ensure that we hear all sides of the issue and especially from active-duty GLBT service members. The Honest and Open Testimony Act would bring us one step closer to repealing Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell once and for all and replacing it with a policy of inclusion and non-discrimination.” Original co-sponsors of the Honest and Open Testimony Act include: Representatives Jim Moran, Lois Capps, Shelley Berkley, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Fortney “Pete” Stark, Diane Watson, Donna Edwards, Raúl Grijalva, Alan Grayson, Judy Chu, Gregory Meeks, Elijah E. Cummings, John Hall, Gary Ackerman, Jackie Speier, Loretta Sanchez, Keith Ellison, John D. Dingell, Earl Blumenauer, Lynn Woolsey, Carolyn Kilpatrick, Yvette Clarke, Chellie Pingree, Mazie K. Hirono, Bob Filner, Neil Abercrombie, and Tim Walz. The Senate Armed Services Committee hearing on Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell, which was originally expected to take place last November, has been postponed indefinitely until next year. In addition, a House Armed Services Committee hearing is also expected to be held sometime next year. On June 22, 2009 and August 27, 2009, Congressman Hastings sent a letter to President Obama, supported by 76 fellow Members of Congress, urging him to take leadership and to work together with Congress to repeal Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell. The White House has yet to respond. Furthermore, on July 28, 2009, Congressman Hastings offered, then withdrew, an amendment to the 2010 Department of Defense Appropriations bill that would have prohibited the use of funds to carry out the provisions in Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell regarding investigating and separating soldiers who admit that they are homosexual, bisexual, or transgender. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Honest_and_Open_Testimony_Act_-_Congressman_Alcee_L._Hastings.pdf
12.01.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) recognized the importance of World AIDS Day in combating the global and domestic HIV/AIDS epidemic. Worldwide, 33.4 million people are living with HIV/AIDS and millions more die from AIDS-related complications each year. Furthermore, over 1,000,000 people in the United States are living with HIV and another person is infected with HIV every 9.5 minutes. Although the scope of HIV/AIDS has changed, the link between socio-economic disparity and those who contract and die from the disease remains consistent around the world. Ironically, Washington D.C., the capital of the richest country on earth, has HIV/AIDS rates that are comparable to poor countries with high rates of infection. “Nearly three decades after the first national reports on HIV/AIDS, the disease has reached every corner of the world and remains one of the most significant public health challenges. Although the collaborative efforts of scientists, health care workers, government officials, organizations, and activists have made it possible for HIV/AIDS to be a chronic condition instead of a death sentence, the battle is far from over,” said Hastings. “This issue hits close to home. Florida has consistently ranked third in the nation in the number of reported HIV/AIDS cases. Almost half of them are concentrated in Broward, Miami-Dade, and Orange Counties, with Broward County having the second highest rate of HIV/AIDS in the state. “Last month, I introduced H.R. 4140, the Increasing Access to Voluntary Screening for HIV/AIDS and STIs Act of 2009, which takes a multifaceted and comprehensive approach to fighting HIV/AIDS and sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and increases access to voluntary screening and other preventative methods while preserving patient rights and confidentiality. “Earlier this year, I also introduced House Resolution 308 to commemorate the life and legacy of Pedro Zamora, a young activist who championed the importance of education in the battle against HIV/AIDS,” Hastings further noted. “On this occasion of World AIDS Day, let us remember all those whom we have lost to HIV/AIDS and recommit ourselves to addressing the persisting challenges that we must overcome in order to win the battle against this deadly disease.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
11.19.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced H.R. 4140, the Increasing Access to Voluntary Screening for HIV/AIDS and STI’s Act of 2009, a bill that will reduce the spread and morbidities associated with HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted infections (STIs). (Please find attached a copy of the bill) “Fifty percent of sexually active Americans will contract an STI at some point in their life. However, stigma, culture, language, lack of education, cost, limited resources, and inaccurate perceptions of risk contribute to insufficient screening for HIV/AIDS and STIs. These same factors have exacerbated the instances of transmission and late detection of HIV/AIDS and STIs over the past decade,” noted Hastings. The Increasing Access to Voluntary Screening for HIV/AIDS and STIs Act of 2009 takes an aggressive and multifaceted approach to combating HIV/AIDS and STIs by increasing access to voluntary screening and other preventative methods while preserving patient rights and confidentiality. The bill also makes screening and other preventative services more accessible to groups that have been historically underrepresented in public health interventions for HIV/AIDS and other STIs. “Voluntary and routine screening for HIV/AIDS and other STIs is an effective and low-cost approach to decreasing the life-threatening and life-altering effects of these infections. The Increasing Access to Voluntary Screening for HIV/AIDS and STIs Act of 2009 includes a comprehensive and evidence based strategy to improve the overall health of our nation.” Original Cosponsors: Reps. Donna M. Christensen, Yvette D. Clarke, Emmanuel Cleaver, John Conyers Jr., Al Green, Raul M. Grijalva, Sheila Jackson-Lee, Gregory W. Meeks, Charles B. Rangel, Lucille Roybal-Allard, Bobby L. Rush, Edolphus Towns, Maxine Waters, Diane E. Watson, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, and Robert Wexler The Increasing Access to Voluntary screening for HIV/AIDS and STIs Act of 2009 is supported by the Harlem United AIDS Center, Global Justice Ministry of Metropolitan Community Churches, AIDS Institute, National Association of People with AIDS (NAPWA), American Social Health Association, National Alliance of State and Territorial AIDS Directors (NASTAD), Human Rights Campaign (HRC), AIDS Action Council, Urban Coalition of HIV/AIDS Prevention Services (UCHAPS), and the Black AIDS Institute. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Rep_Alcee_Hastings_Screening_Bill_11.19.09.pdf
11.19.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) announced that he will co-chair the newly created Democratic Congressional Task Force on Job Creation. Appointed to this post with Congresswoman Betty Sutton (D-OH) by Democratic Caucus Chairman John Larson (D-CT), Hastings will focus on legislative solutions to high unemployment. The task force will bring new and innovative ideas to the table that will create jobs and restore the promise of the middle class. “I am extremely pleased to take the lead on this critically important effort,” said Hastings. “Americans want to work, and Congress can help. This Task Force will focus on efforts that will spur job creation and put money in people’s pockets. The Democratic Congress is not sitting idly by. We are committed to improving the lives of all Americans.” “With a national unemployment rate of 10.2% and a Florida statewide rate of 11.2%, it is imperative that Congress address bold ideas on economic recovery,” said Hastings. “I plan to actively solicit ideas from my constituents – and anyone else – who has ideas big and small for ways to improve the economy and create jobs.” Hastings will soon post a link on his website for visitors to write in their ideas, which he will consider throughout the Task Force’s ongoing efforts. That link will be found at www.alceehastings.house.gov. “By bringing this task force together we will be sure that voices from across our country are heard as we work to create jobs and grow the economy. Congressman Hastings and Congresswoman Sutton have shown exemplary leadership on this issue and will do a great job shepherding this group forward. The task force will help us bring the best ideas from our Caucus forward as we shape our agenda. Momentum is building within the Democratic Caucus toward new job creation legislation that helps ensure our recovery is not a jobless recovery,” said Congressman Larson. “Many parts of this country are struggling terribly with high unemployment and its attendant problems, including areas in my own district in South Florida,” said Hastings. “We have a responsibility not only socially but also economically to ensure that our recovery reaches all Americans. I am proud of the work of the Democratic Congress and I look forward to working with my colleagues and constituents to create jobs and improve lives.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
11.10.2009	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) issued the following statement in observance of Veterans Day on November 11, 2009: “As we mark the 55th anniversary of Veteran’s Day, let us remember those who have fought and those who have fallen in the name of freedom. This nation would not be where it is today without the great sacrifices of our brave men and women in uniform,” said Hastings. “With over 1,700,000 veterans in my home state of Florida, I understand the need to provide our veterans with the most accessible, affordable and quality services and benefits. I am personally dedicated to improving the lives of these courageous men and women. In the 111th Congress, I have supported legislation to help our veterans and their families. I have been active in preserving pension benefits for veterans with non service-connected disabilities, and I am also a strong proponent of providing disabled veterans with service dogs to help them live more independent lives. “As our soldiers return home from the battlefield, we must ensure that they are provided with the services that they rightly deserve. With unemployment rates high among veterans and twenty-five percent of our nation’s veterans being homeless, we as a nation must not turn our backs on those who paved the path for freedom and have made this world more secure. “We must continue working to improve our veterans’ health care system, in particular mental health as well as support educational needs, implement employment-assistance programs, and improve outreach to homeless veterans. With 1.4 million Americans serving in the Armed Forces, it is critical to prepare for their return and welcome them with the respect and dignity they deserve. “On this Veterans Day, I thank all our servicemembers for their courage, honorable service and dedication to America. I am will continue to advocate for the rights of veterans and the rights of our troops and their families.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
11.04.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) marked the 14th anniversary of the assassination of Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin. “I not only remember Yitzhak Rabin as a Prime Minister, politician, diplomat, and Nobel Peace Prize laureate, I also remember him as a friend,” Hastings said. “I was privileged to attend his funeral to honor him as a courageous leader and a true statesman.” “The Middle East faces many difficult challenges in charting a path toward peace. Prime Minister Rabin’s legacy is, without a doubt, an encouragement for the future. We must always remember that peace is possible and not give up hope. I remain committed to working towards a solution in which Israel finds itself at peace with its neighbors, a peace that ensures, above all else, that Israelis can live free from the fear of terrorism and violence.” Yitzhak Rabin was assassinated on November 4, 1995 while leaving a peace rally in Tel Aviv that had been organized to show support for the Oslo agreements. In 1993, Rabin signed the Oslo Accords in Washington, D.C., which established the framework for future relations between Israel and the Palestinians. He also signed the Israel-Jordan peace treaty with King Hussein in 1994 and is remembered for his courageous ability to move forward with his peace policies amidst polarizing views on the issue. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
11.02.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on two upcoming referenda in the states of Maine and Washington that call into question recently passed pro-equality legislation. “We must not let the pages of history turn backwards on equality for all Americans by allowing Proposition 1 and Referendum 71 to strip our gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, and queer (GLBTQ) family and friends of their hard-fought rights,” said Hastings. On November 3, 2009, Maine Proposition 1 and Washington Referendum 71 will be up for vote. A vote of “no” on Proposition 1 affirms Maine’s new law allowing same-sex couples to obtain marriage licenses and a vote of “yes” repeals it. Referendum 71 asks voters to “approve” or “reject” the “everything but marriage” law, which expands domestic partnership rights in the State of Washington to equal state-level marriage rights without calling it marriage. Both laws were passed last May by the legislature, and signed by the governor, of each respective state. “Tomorrow, I urge voters in Maine to vote ‘no’ on Proposition 1 and voters in Washington to vote ‘yes’ on Referendum 71. It is truly outrageous that, in 2009, equal rights are still being denied to any community of people in this country. GLBTQ equality is American equality, and you either mean ‘equality for all’ or you don’t.” The “No on 1” campaign is supported by Maine newspapers Bangor Daily News and the Portland Press Herald, the Equality Maine group and political action committee, the Human Rights Campaign, and Maine Businesspeople for Marriage Equality. The “Approve 71” campaign is supported by over 270 organizations, including Washington State Democrats, Mainstream Republicans of Washington, the Washington Association of Churches, and such industry giants as Boeing, Google, Microsoft, Nike, Puget Sound Energy, and Vulcan Inc. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
11.02.2009	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) praised the passage of H.Res. 291, a resolution that recognizes the crucial role of assistance dogs in helping wounded veterans live more independent lives and expresses gratitude and support to the Tower of Hope organization for its considerable contributions to this cause. Hastings introduced H.Res.291 on March 26, 2009. The House passed the resolution this evening by a vote of 351 to 0. A Senate companion bill, S.Res.115, has been introduced by Senator Joseph Lieberman (ID-CT). (Please find attached a copy of the resolution). “We currently have over 170,000 troops deployed in Iraq and Afghanistan. Upon returning home, these brave men and women are still in need of assistance to recover from their injuries,” noted Hastings. “Service dogs empower wounded veterans and enable them to live more comfortable and independent lives.” H.Res. 291 is a bipartisan resolution that honors wounded veterans and the exemplary services of their assistance dogs. The bill calls for the promotion of assistance animals and encourages public support. Additionally, this legislation lauds the Tower of Hope for its outstanding work in raising funds for the training of assistance dogs, educating people about their benefits and pairing veterans with dogs. The legislation also supports the goals and ideals of creating a Tower of Hope Day. “I am proud to support such an outstanding organization as the Tower of Hope,” said Hastings. “It is wonderful to see great programs being created to inspire hope and compassion in our nation. I am confident that my resolution will help promote the benefits of service dogs and the great work that all organizations have done to make these programs possible.” “It is our government’s moral duty to honor those who made the utmost sacrifice to protect our freedom and security. We owe these brave men and women the highest respect for their courage. I will continue my fight in Congress to better the lives of our nation’s veterans.” For more information about the Tower of Hope, please visit the Tower of Hope’s Web site at (www.thetowerofhope.org). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Tower_of_Hope_Resolution.pdf
10.29.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced the Congress 2014 Commission Act, to establish a commission to make recommendations on the appropriate size of the House of Representatives. (Please find attached a copy of the bill) “The fact of the matter is that the United States is the second least representative democracy in the world. The House of Representatives has not changed size in 99 years. During those 99 years the United States has added four additional states. During those 99 years the population of the United States has tripled. And yet, during those 99 years, the House has only rarely even considered increasing its size,” said Hastings. The commission will analyze the current size of the membership of the House of Representatives, considering the requirements for the institution to carry out its responsibilities in an effective manner under the challenges of the new century. Furthermore, in determining if reform would make for a more representative body, the commission will explore alternatives to the current method of electing representatives. The commission will also address electoral participation, investigating whether certain election reform measures would generate a higher participation rate. Fostering a more representative body also includes discussing greater representation for the people of the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Unites States Virgin Islands, Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands. Hastings further noted, “An increase in the size of the House of Representatives will have a profound impact on the American political system. The benefits include greater access and personal interaction for our constituents, reduced campaign spending, smaller Congressional districts, and, more importantly, better representation for the American people.” “The Congress 2014 Commission Act will produce practical solutions and bring the House of Representatives into the twenty-first century. By working to provide greater representation to the people, we will enhance our spirited democracy and ensure that the United States leads the world in representative democracy.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Congress_2014_Commission_Act_10.09.pdf
10.26.2009	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) received the Dolphin Democrats’ Political Alliance Award on Saturday, October 24, 2009. The Political Alliance Award is bestowed to an individual for his or her outstanding contributions and leadership in fostering good will between gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender (GLBT) members of the Democratic Party and the community at large. Chartered by the Florida GLBT Democratic Caucus, the Dolphin Democrats promote the ideals of the Democratic Party, cultivate and campaign for candidates supportive of the GLBT community, and promote legislation and policies that strengthen the GLBT community. Hastings made the following remarks at the awards ceremony: “I would like to thank Michael Albetta, Ron Mills, and the entire Board of Directors of the Dolphin Democrats for conferring this great distinction on me. In addition, I would also like to thank Julie Carson and Barbara Stuart for organizing this wonderful event. “It is truly an honor to be accepting the Dolphin Democrats’ Political Alliance Award, and to share the stage tonight with my friend and colleague, Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz, and the rest of this year’s honorees. “I applaud each and every one of you for all that you do for the Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Transgender community, the state of Florida, and our nation as a whole. “I have spent my entire life fighting for equal rights for all Americans and am proof that you do not have to be gay to support gay rights. “As a Member of Congress, I remain committed to ensuring equality for all Americans and take great pride in my 100 percent pro-equality voting record. “I am a proud co-sponsor of virtually every piece of legislation introduced in the 111th Congress that extends critical rights and protections to the GLBT community at home, in schools, in the workplace, within the health care system, and across international borders. “I strongly support the repeal of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA), non-discrimination protection for LGBT employees (ENDA), and hate crimes prevention legislation (The Matthew Shepard Hate Crimes Prevention Act). “Last weekend, I was invited by the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force to honor Lt. Dan Choi with an award for his outstanding contributions to the GLBT equality movement at their 13th Annual Miami Recognition Dinner. As you all may know, Lt. Choi is a former Army officer turned GLBT activist because of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell. “Since the law was implemented in 1994, over 13,000 brave and qualified service members like Lt. Choi have been lost to Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell, and counting. “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell hurts our troops, threatens our national security, and must be repealed now! “I have sent two letters to President Obama, signed by 76 of my colleagues, as well as letters to Air Force Secretary Donley and Defense Secretary Gates, urging them to work together with Congress to establish a concrete timeline within which to repeal Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell and to replace it with a policy of inclusion and non-discrimination. “I offered an amendment to the Department of Defense Appropriations bill that would have prohibited the use of funds to investigate and discharge service members under Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell. “As former Congressman Barry Goldwater put it over 20 years ago, ‘You don't need to be straight to fight and die for your country. You just need to shoot straight.’ “Two weeks ago, President Obama stated at a dinner hosted by the Human Rights Campaign, ‘I will end Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell.’ My question to President Obama is, when? When, Mr. President, do you intend to end Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell? The time is now to repeal this bigoted law once and for all. I promise you that I will not give up on this effort until Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell goes the way of all those other discriminatory laws we’ve eliminated over the years. “While the GLBT equality movement has made great strides in recent years, there are new challenges to equality. We must set the standard for our nation’s schools. If GLBT Americans do not have full rights and protections as adults, neither do GLBT students and youth. “Earlier this month, the Gay, Lesbian, and Straight Education Network, an organization focused on ensuring safe schools for all students, released a report entitled, ‘The Experiences of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Middle School Students.’ Their study found that middle schools have become hostile environments for many GLBT students, even more so than high schools. Derogatory and homophobic language from peers and staff alike are regular occurrences. Nine in ten GLBT students experience verbal harassment and six in ten GLBT students experience physical harassment. “I recently heard the story of 17-year-old Ceara Sturgis, an openly gay honor student at Wesson Attendance Center in Wesson, Mississippi. Her high school has refused to publish her picture in the yearbook because she dons a tuxedo instead of a gown. The ACLU of Mississippi has gotten involved in the hope that her picture will be included in time. “We must strive to create an educational environment that is supportive of GLBT students and does not perpetuate discrimination and abuse based on sexual orientation and gender expression. “I am often asked the question, ‘Why are you an advocate of GLBT equality?’ ‘What reasons do you have to support equal rights for gays and lesbians?’ To which I answer, ‘It is simply the right thing to do.’ This nation can only truly prosper when all of its citizens are guaranteed equal rights and protections under the law and in every state. “Thank you, again, for this award and for your continued dedication.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
10.23.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) voted in favor of H.R. 3619, the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2009. Included in the Act was an amendment introduced by Hastings that directs the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating to conduct a study examining the Coast Guard’s ability to respond to the effects of possible changes in U.S. immigration policies toward Haiti. (Please find attached a copy of the amendment) “Changes in immigration policies affecting Haiti are nothing new.” Hastings said. “In fact, it was just over ten years ago that Congress passed the Haitian Refugee Immigration Fairness Act, which affected far more Haitian nationals than any of the currently proposed policies would affect. “TPS, or some other comparable relief, for our Haitian neighbors is long overdue, and this administration has been stalling for far too long. This study will hopefully help us show that our government has rationally and realistically examined all possible results and that we are well equipped to contend with any possible effects.” H.R. 3619 is the annual authorization of the Coast Guard. It authorizes appropriations for the service and incorporates provisions addressing marine safety, acquisition reform, and the Coast Guard’s management structure, recruitment, and career development. Hastings’ amendment specifically asks that the Secretary to examine several scenarios and take into account past experiences regarding changes in immigration policies regarding Haitians. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Amendment_to_HR_3619_Coast_Guard_Authorization.doc_10.09.pdf
10.22.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) voted in favor of H.R. 3585, the Solar Technology Roadmap Act of 2009. Included in the Act was an amendment introduced by Hastings that ensures the appointment of diverse representation on the Solar Technology Roadmap Committee. (Please find attached a copy of the amendment) “This legislation allows us to seize the opportunity to research and develop solar technology. Solar power is an innate source that can provide much advancement in the world of energy and technology,” Hastings said. H.R. 3585 directs the Secretary of Energy to carry out a program of research, development, and demonstration for solar technology. It requires the Secretary to provide grants to academic institutions, national laboratories, government research agencies, nonprofit organizations, and industrial entities and appoint a committee to develop the Solar Technology Roadmap. Hastings’ amendment ensures that the Secretary of Energy, when appointing members to the Solar Technology Roadmap Committee includes representation from minority serving institutions. “I believe that minority serving institutions have a history of technical expertise, where many are actually land-grant institutions. Thus, they have significant extension efforts which translate research into applied resources for the communities they serve.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Hastings_Amendment_to_Solar_Tech_Legislation_10.22.09.pdf
10.19.2009	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) honored Lt. Dan Choi at the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force’s 13th Annual Miami Recognition Dinner on Saturday, October 17, 2009. Launched in 1997, the Miami Recognition Dinner honors individuals and organizations for their outstanding contributions to the social, cultural, political, and humanitarian needs of the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) community. Hastings made the following remarks at the dinner: “I would like to thank the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force for inviting me to be a part of its 13th Annual Miami Recognition Dinner. “It is because of grassroots organizations like the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force that your message of equality not only reaches Washington, but also communities all across this nation. “I applaud each and every one of you for all that you do for the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender community and our nation as a whole. “We are gathered here to celebrate three outstanding individuals in the fight for LGBT equality: Mr. Steve Adkins, Lt. Dan Choi, and Rev. James Trapp. “Lt. Choi’s story is one of excellence and leadership. “He attended West Point and was one of only eight graduates in his class to earn a degree in Arabic Language, in addition to Environmental Engineering. “During his ten years of honorable service to this nation, Lt. Choi served as an Infantry Officer with the 10th Mountain Division (Ft. Drum, NY) and later an Infantry Platoon Leader with the Army National Guard’s 1st Battalion, 69th Infantry (Manhattan, NY). “For 15 months from 2006 to 2007, Lt. Choi saw duty in South Baghdad’s “Triangle of Death,” where his skills as an Arabic linguist proved invaluable to the safety of his fellow soldiers and the success of the United States’ mission. “He co-founded KNIGHTS OUT: Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender West Point Graduates, an organization of West Point alumni, staff, and faculty who are united in supporting LGBT soldiers and their right to serve honestly and openly. “In clear defiance of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell, Lt. Choi courageously spoke three words on The Rachel Maddow Show last March that have reinvigorated a movement – “I am gay.” “Despite widespread support from his unit and the public, Lt. Choi was discharged last June. “Guided by the same principles that he learned at West Point and in the Army, Lieutenant Choi now advocates for the repeal of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell, the reversal of Proposition 8, and raises awareness of the issues that affect LGBT service members and the LGBT community as a whole. “As an officer in the US Army, Iraq War veteran, and now civil rights activist, Lt. Choi continues to fight for the freedom of all Americans, gay and straight, to “be all they can be.” “It is my distinct privilege and honor to present Lt. Daniel Choi with this plaque and American flag, which was flown over the United States Capitol, in recognition of his service to our nation and outstanding contributions to the LGBT equality movement. His service and activism will not be forgotten. “The West Point Cadet Prayer, which Lt. Choi recited every Sunday, teaches cadets “…never to be content with a half-truth when the whole can be won.” Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell is a “no-truth” policy and must be re-pealed once and for all. “In 2009, over 400 service members, like Lt. Choi, have been lost to Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell. “I have sent two letters to President Obama, as well as letters to Air Force Secretary Donley and Defense Secretary Gates, urging them to work together with Congress to establish a concrete timeline within which to repeal Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell and to replace it with a policy of inclusion and non-discrimination. “I offered an amendment to the Department of Defense Appropriations bill that would have prohibited the use of funds to investigate and discharge service members under Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell. “As former Congressman Barry Goldwater put it over 20 years ago, “You don't need to be straight to fight and die for your country. You just need to shoot straight.” “Last week, President Obama stated at a dinner hosted by the Human Rights Campaign, “I will end ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell.’” My question to President Obama is, when? When, Mr. President, do you intend to end Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell? The time is now to repeal this bigoted law once and for all. I promise you that I will not give up on this effort until Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell goes the way of all those other outdated discriminatory laws we’ve eliminated over the years. “I am proof that you do not have to be gay to support gay rights. I remain committed to ensuring equality for all Americans and take great pride in my 100 percent pro-equality voting record. “I am a proud co-sponsor of virtually every piece of legislation introduced in the 111th Congress that extends critical rights and protections to the LGBT community. “I strongly support the repeal of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA), non-discrimination protection for LGBT employees (ENDA), and hate crimes prevention legislation, the Matthew Shepard Hate Crimes Prevention Act. “I am deeply humbled by Lt. Choi’s selfless example and promise you that I will not rest until the fight for LGBT equality has been won. “Lt. Choi, thank you for your service, your activism, and congratulations!” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
10.14.2009	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the resignation of Congressman Robert Wexler. Wexler will become director of the Center for Middle East Peace and Economic Cooperation, a non-profit, non-partisan organization that works towards a peaceful resolution to the Arab-Israeli conflict by bringing together Middle Eastern policymakers, American government officials, and international business leaders. “The news of Congressman Wexler’s resignation is bittersweet for Florida politics. Bobby has been a selfless public servant for the state of Florida and this nation as a whole for almost two decades. Since his days as a State Senator, he has proven himself to be an effective and compassionate legislator. Bobby is a true statesman and has served the 19th district of Florida with the utmost dignity and respect. He has been a close friend and ally in Congress,” said Hastings. “Today's announcement is truly a sad day for South Florida, the state, nation, and indeed the world. I believe, however, that there is no better person than Congressman Wexler to lead the Center for Middle East Peace and Economic Cooperation. As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Europe, a Senior Member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, and member of the Subcommittee on the Middle East and South Asia, Congressman Wexler has established himself as a respected and knowledgeable voice in international relations. He will undoubtedly represent the best interests of the United States in the international community’s ongoing dialogue as the region addresses many immense challenges.” “I look forward to continuing to work with Congressman Wexler in his new position and wish him and the entire Wexler family all my best.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
10.08.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced the Drug Price Competition Act of 2009, which will ensure fair competition in the drug industry and increase access to affordable life-saving medications. (Please find attached a copy of the bill) “This bill will correct a flaw in the Hatch-Waxman Act that has allowed some generic and brand name drug companies to restrict consumer access to generic medications,” said Hastings. Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, the first drug company that submits an application for product approval to the FDA receives a 180-day period of exclusivity in which no other generic company is allowed to enter the market. This application is also accompanied with a challenge to the brand company’s drug patent. In response, brand companies often pay generic companies large sums of money to encourage them to postpone their entry into the market. Generic drug companies frequently comply because they can retain their 180-day period of exclusivity even if they agree to enter the market years later than was first anticipated. Additionally, generic manufactures that were not the first-to-file have no incentive to challenge the brand company’s patent and potentially open the blocked markets because they would not be able to enter the market until after the 180-day exclusivity period. “Generic medications are critical to managing everything from heart disease to battling life-threatening cancer,” Hastings further noted. “Stymied market competition and delayed access to generic medication pose serious health and economic costs to patients and taxpayers.” The Drug Price Competition Act of 2009 is the House companion to a bill that Senator Bill Nelson (D-FL) introduced earlier this year. The bill targets the root of the blocked drug market problem. It also allows generic companies that win patent challenges to share the 180-day exclusivity period with the generic companies that first submitted an application to the FDA. However, no subsequent challenger would be eligible to share in the exclusivity reward once the generic drug has been launched. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Drug_Price_Competition_Act_of_2009_10.8.09.pdf
10.07.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) sent the following letter to Defense Secretary Gates urging him to work together with President Obama and Congress to establish a timeline within which to repeal Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell and replace it with a policy of inclusion and non-discrimination. Congressman Hastings’ latest letter regarding Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell comes just days after National Security Adviser GEN Jim Jones announced that President Obama will take on the issue at the “appropriate time.” Furthermore, it references US Air Force Col Om Prakash’s article, “The Efficacy of ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,’” which appears in the latest issue of Joint Force Quarterly. Under the law known as Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell, openly gay and lesbian service members and those suspected of “homosexual conduct” are prohibited from serving in the military. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter and Col Prakash’s article) October 7, 2009 The Honorable Dr. Robert M. GatesSecretary of Defense1300 Defense Pentagon 3D844Washington, DC 20301-1300 Dear Mr. Secretary: As you and the Pentagon general counsel continue your review of the policy known as Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell, I write to bring to your attention several recent developments that underscore my longstanding position on the matter – it must be repealed now. Earlier this week, National Security Adviser GEN Jones announced that President Obama will focus “at the right time” on how to overturn the ban. With over 400 brave servicemen and women lost to Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell this year alone, and a to-be-determined strategy in Afghanistan, the time is now to repeal Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell. In the most recent issue of Joint Force Quarterly (issue 55, 4th quarter 2009), Col Om Prakash authored an article entitled, “The Efficacy of ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell.’” Col Prakash, whose article was reviewed by the office of ADM Mullen and won the 2009 Secretary of Defense National Security Essay Competition, substantiates increasingly amplified calls from the military and the American people to allow the more than 65,000 active-duty Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender service members to serve openly and without compromising their integrity. After a comprehensive assessment of arguments on both sides, he concluded that “…it is not time for the administration to reexamine the issue; rather, it is time for the administration to examine how to implement the repeal of the ban.” As you may know, on June 22 and August 27, I sent letters to President Obama reflecting the sense of 77 Members of Congress and calling on him to take leadership in working together with Congress to repeal and replace Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell. Furthermore, on July 27, I introduced an amendment to the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2010 that would have prohibited the Defense Department from using funds therein to investigate or discharge our brave servicemen and women for “telling” their sexual orientation. While President Obama has indicated his desire to have Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell repealed, Congress has yet to receive indication from the Executive that it is ready to proceed with a repeal process that requires leadership on all fronts. I strongly urge you to ensure the swift and overdue end of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell by working together with the Obama administration and Congress to establish a timeline, beginning now, within which to repeal the law and implement a policy of inclusion and non-discrimination. Mr. Secretary, please find enclosed a copy of Col Prakash’s article and know that I stand ready to assist you, President Obama, and my colleagues in Congress in repealing Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell today. I am extremely proud of all the men and women who serve in our Armed Forces and truly appreciate the countless sacrifices that they continue to make every single day to protect this nation and the American people. Thank you for your consideration and I look forward to your response. With warm regards, I remain, Sincerely, Alcee L. HastingsMember of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Rep_Alcee_L_Hastings_Letter_to_Sec_Gates_DADT_10.7.09.pdf JFQ_-_Efficacy_of_DADT_Oct_09.pdf
10.06.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced legislation that presents a dramatic shift in United States detention policy. The Detainment Reform Act of 2009 provides policies and guidelines for detaining dangerous suspected terrorists while maintaining a system of judicial rights. (Please find attached a copy of the bill) “For too long, our country has held these non-traditional enemy belligerents without any transparency or accountability in the process – a system that has led to torture and abuse. With this bill, we ensure that our nation continues to be a nation of laws. The United States will be able to protect its national security without compromising its credibility as a model for the free world,” explained Hastings. Under the detention regime in place since 2002, several detainees in the United States’ control have died under mysterious circumstances. Many have been tortured. Still others have been held for years without access to a lawyer, no right to hear the charges against them, and no way of appealing rudimentary reviews of their status. Hastings continued, “They are outside our laws but inside our prisons, at the mercy of a process that is bad for our national security, bad for human rights, and downright horrible for America’s image around the world.” The bill presents a solution to the judicial vacuum and lack of coherence among the courts as to how to combat terrorism while adhering to the Constitution, federal law, international human rights law, and the laws of armed conflict. It provides standards for judicial review of the detention of individuals who are imperative threats to national security yet cannot be tried under the existing criminal or military justice system. “Terrorism presents a unique kind of threat to national security that our current systems are not equipped to adequately address. A new threat necessitates a new method that will keep our country safe without departing from its ideals,” said Hastings. “This bill establishes that new way.” By implementing legal protections and standards of detainment for those in the custody of the United States, the bill also eliminates an effective recruitment tool for terrorist organizations. “When we detain individuals for years without ensuring that they have access to a fair and accountable system of justice, we undermine hundreds of years of democracy. We risk replicating the very authoritarianism we fight against,” Hastings said. “It is far past time to change.” Hastings concluded, “I ask my colleagues to help keep our country safe without abandoning its ideals. By implementing a fair and transparent detention and interrogation process, we can responsibly accomplish both.” Specifically, the Detainment Reform Act of 2009 provides: Detention Criteria and Procedures: Requires the President to show a court that a detainee is an imperative threat to security; provides basic criteria as to who constitutes an imperative threat Creates policies for judicial review upon the initial detention of covered individuals and sets forth judicial proceedings for the DC District Court should the government petition for continued detention Ensures International Committee of the Red Cross access to all detainees within 24 hours of their receipt at an American detention facility Four Ways to Process Detainees: The detainee can be charged with an offense and then transferred to a military or federal civilian detention facility for trial The detainee can be transferred to an international tribunal that has jurisdiction The detainee can be transferred to his country of origin or to another country – following the provisions set forth in the Convention Against Torture and other national and international laws The detainee can continue to be held for as long as the United States government can demonstrate that the individual presents an imperative threat to security Three Reporting Requirements to Ensure Accountability and Transparency: Annual Department of Defense report on the conditions of the facilities and the detainees Report by the President to Congress describing the President’s plan to implement relevant sections of the bill Report by the Director of National Intelligence to Congress identifying the organizations which the administration considers to be forces covered by the Authorized Use of Military Forces Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Rep_Alcee_L_Hastings_Detainment_Reform_Act_of_2009_FINAL.pdf
09.29.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) honored Ms. Gia Tutalo-Mote of Forever Family located in Ft. Lauderdale, FL for being selected as a recipient of the 2009 Angels in Adoption Award from the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI). Hastings nominated Tutalo-Mote this past summer for the award. “Gia is truly an inspiration to the state of Florida. By creating Forever Family, she has dedicated her life to helping children in the foster care system find loving families,” noted Hastings. Tutalo-Mote is an Emmy Award winning television producer. She produces weekly series of mini-documentaries that air on major broadcast stations throughout Florida to tell the stories of children who are in need of a “Forever Family.” Her work has resulted in the adoption of hundreds of children, the creation of new foster families, and the dedication of dozens of community volunteers. Tutalo-Mote has raised substantial funds to help teens aging out of the foster care system and children with special medical needs. “I believe that there is no person more deserving of the ‘Angels in Adoption Award’ than Gia,” Hastings further commented. “She has helped to put a positive face on the foster care system in Florida and been a voice for so many children who seek a loving family. Gia has touched the lives of many and continues this selfless journey each and every single day. She is a hero and should be honored for all of her continued hard work and dedication to children and youth in need.” In addition to this latest honor, Tutalo-Mote has received numerous awards for her lifetime of humanitarian work, including: the Florida Department of Children and Families Advocate of the Year, and The William R. Butler Award for Community Service, the highest honor the University of Miami Alumni Association bestows. Tutalo-Mote is in Washington this week from September 28-30, 2009 participating in events hosted by CCAI. For more information about Angels in Adoption, please visit www.angelsinadoption.org. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
09.24.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced two resolutions thanking Bermuda and Portugal for resettling released detainees from the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Bermuda accepted four Chinese Uighers and Portugal took in two Syrian men, all of whom had been cleared for release by the United States government. (Please find attached copies of the resolutions) “I appreciate Portugal and Bermuda – our friends and allies – for assisting the United States in the effort to resolve the complex problem of resettling detainees cleared for release from Guantanamo,” said Hastings. “Together, the United States, Bermuda, and Portugal have modeled a safe, humane, and efficient process of ensuring that resettled detainees can begin their lives anew.” Of the approximately 225 detainees remaining at Guantanamo, over 50 have been cleared for release after having been determined to pose no threat to United States security or interests. Since President Barack Obama took office, about 15 detainees have been resettled in Britain, France, Portugal, Bermuda, Chad, Iraq, Afghanistan, and Saudi Arabia. The effort to release and resettle detainees from Guantanamo has engendered fierce debate in Congress about the efficacy of such efforts. President Obama has vowed to close down Guantanamo Bay by January, 2010. “While Congress and the administration debate about what to do with the remaining detainees, and where to resettle those who have been cleared for release, we should express our appreciation to those nations who have aided us in accepting released former prisoners,” Hastings said. “We owe the people of Bermuda and Portugal sincere thanks for taking on the responsibility of ensuring the rights and well-being of these released detainees, who have been cleared of any wrongdoing,” said Hastings. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Hastings_Bermuda_Res_9.24.09pdf.pdf Hastings_Portugal_Res_9.24.09.pdf
09.23.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced the Support for Ending Long-Term Homelessness Act of 2009. This bill will establish a grant program to provide permanent supportive housing for chronically homeless individuals and families that have needs not addressed by traditional affordable housing. The companion bill has been introduced in the Senate by Senator Richard Burr (R-NC). (Please find attached a copy of the bill.) “The very sad reality is that more than a half million Americans do not have a place to call home each night, and half of them are without shelter,” said Hastings. “This bill will help to alleviate the wide-spread problem of chronic homelessness across the country.” Current programs for funding services in permanent supportive housing, other than those administered by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), were not designed to be closely coordinated with housing resources, nor were they designed to meet the multiple needs of people who are chronically homeless. This bill will establish a comprehensive grant program to provide supportive housing for chronically homeless individuals and families that they so badly need. Support services will include mental health services, substance use disorder treatment, referrals for medical and dental care, health education, and services designed to help individuals make progress toward self-sufficiency and recovery. “Recently, I heard the story of a 25-year-old mother of three in my district, who was running out of options—staying at a hotel in Palm Beach County after fleeing domestic violence in Miami. As she was running out of money, this brave young woman and her young children soon would be homeless. But, they were one of the lucky ones. She was referred to The Lord’s Place residence for homeless families, where she now lives with her children. As a leader in my district for chronic homelessness solutions, the Lord’s Place is a perfect example of the types of establishments that would benefit immensely from this legislation.” This legislation will ensure permanent supportive housing, which will help the chronically homeless stay off the streets, out of hospitals and jails, and ultimately help them achieve the stability they need to lead healthier lives as productive members of their communities. “Permanent supportive housing is 100% practical, and is a guaranteed investment of public and private resources to end long-term homelessness,” Hastings further commented. “I encourage my colleagues in Congress to help address the wide-spread problem of chronic homelessness across our nation by supporting this critically important legislation.” Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors of this legislation include: Representatives Corrine Brown, Raul Grijalva, Danny Davis, Bob Filner, Al Green, Pete Stark, Ed Towns, Robert Wexler, Kendrick Meek, Jan Schakowsky, and Rush Holt. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### SELHA__Bill_9.23.09.pdf
09.18.2009	Congressmen Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Co-Chairmen of the Florida Delegation will hold a delegation meeting on Thursday, September 24th at 8:00 am in room 1310 of the Longworth House Office Building. The Delegation will discuss the state of the health care system in Florida. Speakers will include: Mr. Bruce RuebenPresidentFlorida Hospital Association Dr. Eneida RoldanPresident and CEOJackson Health System Ms. Cynthia MortonVice President, Political AffairsAmerican Health Care Association Coy Irvin Jr., M.D.Chair, FL Medical Association Delegates Florida Medical Association Mr. Michael SchlossbergInsurance AgentBroward Association of Health Underwriters Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
09.18.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) wished South Florida’s Jewish residents and their families a Happy and Healthy New Year as they celebrate Rosh Hashanah. “As my Jewish friends and their families celebrate the sweet New Year and pause to reflect during the ensuing Days of Awe, I wish them all the very best in health and happiness. May the coming year bring peace and joy, not only in their personal lives but for our country and our planet, as well,” said Hastings. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
09.17.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) voted in favor of H.R. 3221, the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 2009. The House of Representatives passed H.R. 3221 by a vote of 253 to 171. “During these difficult economic times, it is more crucial than ever that we increase our nation’s educational opportunities and make wise use of taxpayer dollars,” Hastings said. “As a father, I know first hand the burden that paying for college places on American families and the impact that education has on an individual’s long-term success. I applaud this legislation for making much needed investments in nearly all aspects of our educational system and doing so in a fiscally prudent manner.” H.R. 3221 shifts all new federal student lending to the Direct Loan program saving taxpayers $87 billion over ten years. These savings will go toward increasing the maximum annual Pell Grant scholarship, bolstering college completion support programs, investing in Historically Black Colleges and Universities and Minority-Serving Institutions, and reducing the national deficit. The shift to the Direct Loan program also creates more reliable, affordable federal student loans, because unlike the lender-based program, it is entirely insulated from market fluctuations. “I am pleased that this legislation will protect student borrowers from market volatility and will ensure that students continue to have the means to obtain a college degree when it is most essential,” Hastings continued. “However, this legislation not only invests in higher education, it also lays the foundation for continued academic success by investing in and reforming America’s early education programs and providing grants for school modernization so that students may learn in the safe, healthy environments they deserve. By increasing the effectiveness of federal education funding, streamlining the student loan process, and making college more affordable for American families, H.R. 3221 will ensure that the U.S. maintains its competitive edge in this global economy for generations to come.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
09.16.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) voted in favor of H.R. 3246, the Advanced Vehicle Technology Act of 2009. The House passed H.R. 3246 by a vote of 312 to 114. “It is critical that we support innovative methods for advanced vehicle manufacturing and reducing fuel consumption,” said Hastings. “I applaud this legislation for focusing particularly on the development and research of materials and technologies as a way to address automotive and commercial vehicle emissions as well as the economy.” The passage of H.R. 3246 will help to strengthen our economy and national security by boosting American innovation in alternative energies and fuel efficient vehicle technology. It will create the most comprehensive national vehicle research and development program to date, to build on the achievements of this Congress in advancing clean American energy and fuel efficiency. “I am also pleased that this legislation focuses on improving fuel efficiency in heavy trucks. In my home state of Florida, many trucking companies utilize thousands of trucks on the road, improvement in fuel efficiency and emissions reduction will greatly help our environment. Many of these trucks travel primarily on Interstate 95, cutting through dense urban areas and running along sensitive environments like the Everglades and the coast. Reducing not only our importation of foreign oil, but also pollution will be of great benefit to the residents of Florida and our environment.” The bill is endorsed by: General Motors, Ford Motor Company, Chrysler, the United Auto Workers, the Chamber of Commerce, the National Association of Manufacturers, Sierra Club, Natural Resources Defense Council, the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, the Motor and Equipment Manufacturers Association, Daimler, Magna International, Delphi, ArvinMeritor, Robert Bosch LLC, Caterpillar, Dueco Odyne, Achates Power, EcoMotors, the Engine Manufacturers Association, and the Connected Vehicle Trade Association. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
09.15.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) joined Congressman Jerrold Nadler (D-NY) as an original co-sponsor of the Respect for Marriage Act of 2009. The bill would repeal the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) of 1996 and ensure that all married couples are treated equally under federal law. The bill was introduced with 91 original co-sponsors. (Please find attached a copy of the bill) “The Defense of Marriage Act is unconstitutional, unconscionable, and illogical,” said Hastings. “Gay Americans are active in their communities, raise families, and pay taxes just like everyone else. All those who assume the serious legal responsibilities of marriage should be afforded equal rights and protection under the law. “I commend Congressman Nadler for taking leadership in repealing DOMA and urge my colleagues in Congress to support this legislation.” The Respect for Marriage Act is in line with President Obama’s long-standing commitment to overturning DOMA. Furthermore, it is supported by Advocates for Youth, the American Civil Liberties Union, Americans for Democratic Action, CenterLink: The Community of LGBT Centers, Empire State Pride Agenda, the Equality Federation, Freedom to Marry, Gay & Lesbian Advocates & Defenders, the Gay, Lesbian and Straight Education Network, the Human Rights Campaign, Lambda Legal, the National Center for Lesbian Rights, the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force Action Fund, and the Sexuality Information and Education Council of the U.S. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Respect_for_Marriage_Act_9_14_09_for_INTRO.pdf
09.08.2009	Sends Letters to Amerijet CEO David Basset and H.I.G. Capital Managing Partner Doug Berman Urging a Return to the Negotiating Table with the Teamsters Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) sent the following letters to Amerijet International Inc. Founder & CEO David Bassett and H.I.G. Capital Managing Partner Doug Barman. The letters state increasing concern with actions that have recently transpired during contract negotiations with Amerijet employees as well as with several of the company's questionable practices. In particular, the letter expresses grave concern for the failure of Amerijet to provide adequate drinking water or sanitary facilities as well as docking the pay of pilots who are too ill to fly. Please find below and attached copies of the letters: September 1, 2009 Mr. David BassettFounder & CEOAmerijet International, Inc.2800 S. Andrews AvenueFort Lauderdale, FL 33316 Dear Mr. Bassett, I am writing to express my increasing concern with actions that have recently transpired during contract negotiations with your employees as well as with several of your company's questionable practices of which I have recently been made aware. I am dismayed that you have found it acceptable to walk away from ongoing negotiations and find reports of actions taken against striking employees and their sympathizers particularly disconcerting. Given your cavalier response to the negotiating process and your employees’ reasonable demands, Amerijet employees saw no other recourse but to go on strike. They have legitimate grievances which deserve every right to be addressed. Such grievances have been recently brought to my attention, and frankly, I am deeply disturbed by your company's seeming disregard for the health and safety of your employees. Your failure to provide adequate drinking water or sanitary facilities is simply degrading and inhumane. The docking of pay of pilots who are too ill to fly pressures them to fly when sick and endangers the lives of not only your employees, but also innocent bystanders on the ground. Though having to work in such substandard conditions is sufficiently reprehensible, Amerijet pilots and engineers are also among the lowest paid in the industry. Our economy is certainly facing difficult times, but that is no justification for the unfair wages and substandard working environment of your employees. Your policies and practices are not only unjust, but they are blatantly dangerous and irresponsible. I respectfully urge you to return, in good faith, to the negotiating table and work toward a mutually beneficial contract that ensures your employees the respect and decency they rightly deserve. Sincerely,/s/Alcee L. HastingsMember of Congress Cc: FAA Administrator Randy Babbitt September 1, 2009 Mr. Doug BermanManaging PartnerH.I.G. Capital1001 Brickell Bay Drive27th FloorMiami, FL 33131 Dear Mr. Berman, I am writing to express my increasing concern with H.I.G. Capital’s lack of involvement during the ongoing labor dispute between the management of Amerijet International, Inc. and its employees as well as with H.I.G. Capital’s seeming disregard of several of Amerijet’s questionable practices of which I have recently been made aware. As Amerijet’s largest shareholder, H.I.G. Capital’s inaction regarding these matters is both disappointing and counterproductive. I am dismayed that Amerijet’s management has found it acceptable to walk away from ongoing negotiations, and I find reports of actions taken against striking employees and their sympathizers particularly disconcerting. Given Amerijet’s cavalier response to the negotiating process and its employees’ reasonable demands, Amerijet employees saw no other recourse but to go on strike. They have legitimate grievances which deserve every right to be addressed. Such grievances have been recently brought to my attention, and frankly, I am deeply disturbed by H.I.G. Capital’s inaction given Amerijet’s blatant disregard for the health and safety of its employees. Amerijet’s failure to provide adequate drinking water or sanitary facilities is simply degrading and inhumane. The docking of pay of pilots who are too ill to fly pressures them to fly when sick and endangers the lives of not only Amerijet employees, but also innocent bystanders on the ground. Though having to work in such substandard conditions is sufficiently reprehensible, Amerijet pilots and engineers are also among the lowest paid in the industry. Our economy is certainly facing difficult times, but that is no justification for the unfair wages and substandard working environment of Amerijet’s employees. Amerijet’s policies and practices are not only unjust, but they are blatantly dangerous and irresponsible. H.I.G. Capital’s apparent silence on these matters amounts to nothing less than compliance. I respectfully ask that you urge the management of Amerijet to return, in good faith, to the negotiating table and work toward a mutually beneficial contract that ensures Amerijet’s employees the respect and decency they rightly deserve. Sincerely,/s/Alcee L. HastingsMember of Congress Cc: FAA Administrator Randy Babbitt Amerijet_and_HIG_Capital_Letters_9.1.09.pdf Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
08.27.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) will visit the Boys & Girls Club of Martin County to discuss the expansion of their Indiantown program. Joining Hastings will be Congressman Tom Rooney. August 27, 2009 2:30 PM The Boys & Girls Club of Martin County11500 SE Lares AvenueHobe Sound, FL Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
08.27.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) sent the following letter to President Barack Obama regarding a June 22 letter he sent with 76 of his colleagues on “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell.” The White House has yet to respond to the letter urging President Obama to suspend the investigation and discharge of service members in the Armed Forces because of their sexual orientation. Under the discriminatory law of “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,” openly gay and lesbian service members and those suspected of “homosexual conduct” may not serve in the military. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter. Additionally, please find attached a copy of the letter sent on June 22.) August 27, 2009 The Honorable Barack H. ObamaPresident of the United StatesThe White HouseWashington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama: On June 22, I sent you a letter signed by 77 Members of Congress urging you to take leadership in working together with Congress to repeal Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell and to replace it with a policy of inclusion and non-discrimination. More than two months later, I have yet to receive an official response. I am deeply disappointed that you have not responded to my letter and that we are not addressing Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell at this time. With the recent addition of 17,000 American troops to Afghanistan and the possibility of another request for even more troops from General McChrystal in the coming weeks, I am sure that you will agree that we cannot afford to lose any of our dedicated, highly-qualified service members to Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell. As you know, we lose approximately two service members every day to Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell. While I commend Secretary Gates and the Pentagon’s general counsel for their continued efforts to identify possible provisional measures, you can take action right now. I sincerely hope that your administration will make Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell a priority and do everything in its power to repeal this ridiculous, bigoted law once and for all. Mr. President, I am extremely proud of the men and women who serve in our Armed Forces and truly appreciate the countless sacrifices they continue to make every single day to protect this nation and the American people. They deserve better than Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell. Please know that I will continue to monitor this situation closely and stand ready to assist you and my colleagues in Congress in repealing Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell today. Sincerely,Alcee L. HastingsMember of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### Rep_Alcee_L_Hastings_DADT_Follow_Up_Letter_8.27.09.pdf Rep_Alcee_L._Hastings_DADT_Letter_6.22.09.pdf
08.26.2009	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the passing of Senator Edward M. Kennedy: “Today our nation mourns the loss of a great man and a great public servant. My thoughts and prayers are with the Kennedy family at this most difficult time. Senator Kennedy served our country proudly in the United States Senate for over four decades. His profound impact on American politics has taught us to serve our country with respect and to fight for those whose voices aren’t always heard. Although, Senator Kennedy is no longer with us, his life and legacy will always be remembered in the halls of Congress,” said Hastings. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
08.20.2009	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) announced the following event for Thursday, August 20, 2009: 1:00 PM Florida Alliance for Retired Americans Health Care Forum South County Civic Center 16700 Jog Road Delray Beach, FL Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
08.20.2009	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) will appear on WPLG Local 10’s “This Week in South Florida with Michael Putney.” The show will air live on Sunday, August 23, 2009 at 11:30 AM. Hastings will discuss health care reform, temporary protected status (TPS) for Haitian nationals currently residing in the United States, the economic crisis facing Florida, and the future of Guantanamo. For more information, please visit (www.justnews.com). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
08.17.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the release of a Human Rights Watch report entitled, “They Want Us Exterminated: Murder, Torture, Sexual Orientation and Gender in Iraq.” The report documents the extrajudicial persecution, torture, and execution of lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) Iraqis. In recent months, hundreds of gay men have been tortured and murdered in Iraq in a systematic campaign of social cleansing by Shiite militiamen and extremists. Furthermore, victims and witnesses allege that Iraqi security forces have colluded and joined in the killing. “The alarming testimonies detailed in this report are undeniable evidence that the rights and safety of gay Iraqis are at risk,” said Hastings. “Gay Iraqis should not have to live in fear of being tortured, mutilated, or murdered by their countrymen. International human rights law explicitly condemns torture and guarantees the right to life and the right to effective state protection. These abuses fundamentally threaten the rights and safety of all Iraqis. “I urge the Iraqi government to stem this tide of violence and hate and to protect its LGBT citizens,” further noted Hastings. “I also commend Human Rights Watch for raising awareness of this urgent matter and for its ongoing dedication to defending and protecting human rights around the world.” Hastings is a leader in the fight for LGBT equality in the United States and abroad. On May 25, he joined Rep. Jared Polis (D-CO) and 39 other Members of Congress in sending a letter to Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton urging the State Department to prioritize the investigation of these human rights violations and to work together with the Iraqi government and human rights organizations to end the torture and killing of LGBT Iraqis. To read the Human Rights Watch report, please click: http://www.hrw.org/node/85050 Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
07.29.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) received the “2009 Defenders of Freedom Award” from the Council for a Democratic Iran (CDI) for his lifetime of service and commitment to human rights, democracy, and freedom. Please find below Hastings’ prepared remarks: “I am honored to be here this afternoon to accept the “2009 Defenders of Freedom Award” with my colleague Senator Sam Brownback. As you may know, my work in the area of human rights began long before I came to Congress as a lawyer and then as a Judge. “In April 2001, I was appointed to the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe, also known as the Helsinki Commission. I currently serve as its Co-Chairman. The Helsinki Commission is an independent government agency created in 1976 to monitor and encourage compliance with the landmark human rights and democracy-building accords signed in Helsinki, Finland the previous year. Additionally, I am the only American to have served as President of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe’s Parliamentary Assembly. “I have always been a champion of human rights, freedom, and democracy – fighting for those whose voices have been silenced by regimes who do not respect the rights of their people. “On July 21, I was reading the Washington Post and came across a powerful advertisement that your organization had placed in the newspaper. It posed a very real question to the world’s democracies: “What more do the people of Iran have to do to get your attention?” One thing is abundantly clear to me: the recent elections in Iran and its aftermath certainly got the world’s attention. “I would like to take a moment of personal privilege to read an excerpt from this advertisement that I found to be quite telling. “Hundreds of thousands of Iranians – primarily young men and women, who make up 65 percent of Iran’s population – have demonstrated in the streets, many carrying signs written in English so their messages can be clearly understood. They have kept channels of communication open to the world, while foreign journalists are forbidden access. They have endured beatings by uniformed thugs bearing clubs and water hoses, tear gas, and guns. They have been dragged away in illegal arrests. They have risked their lives. Many have given their lives.” “My friends, the struggle for freedom and democracy is never easy, especially when faced with a regime that has isolated itself and her people from the rest of the world. Those brave individuals who took to the streets sent a message to the international community that they seek change from the repression that has been inflicted upon them. Speaking out and standing up for the people of Iran is the best guarantee we have in preventing the present situation from unfolding any further. We must ensure that the courage and sacrifice of those fighting for democracy in Iran is not in vain. “Last Congress, as Chairman of the Helsinki Commission, I held a briefing entitled, “The Future Belarus: Democracy or Dictatorship?” that focused on the prospects for change in a country that is widely considered to have Europe’s worst record with respect to human rights and democracy. A young man from Belarus by the name of Zmitser Fedaruk, who is one of the leaders of the Young Front movement in Belarus, stated during the briefing, “We want to present a new generation of Belarusian youth which will join the Front, young people who believe in God and love their country, because such features were very usual for the people who also founded your country. So we have a good example before our eyes.” Not long after Mr. Fedaruk returned to Belearus, he was beaten by riot police during an otherwise peaceful demonstration. According to witnesses, Mr. Fedaruk was beaten and knocked unconscious by riot policemen, then rushed by ambulance to the hospital. “Unfortunately, the intimidation and abuse by regimes who wish to oppress their people does not seem to be coming to an end any time soon. However, I believe that it is imperative that my colleagues in Congress and I stand with all people--young and old--struggling for freedom, democracy, and respect for human rights. “The Iranian people are demanding genuine political accountability. The recent events in Iran reflect the systematic use of violence and intimidation in the place of dialogue and debate. I share your concerns that we cannot support electoral fraud, we cannot turn a blind eye to human rights violations against innocent Iranians, and we cannot permit civil liberties and political rights to be confiscated. “It is clear to all of us that the Iranian regime has unleashed a fearsome brand of media manipulation and control—distorting the reality of events in Tehran. Now, I am not one to “Twitter” or “tweet” (although I did recently join Facebook), but I do think it’s appropriate to mention the impact of new information technology and social networking programs on the recent aftermath of the elections in Iran. “We know these virtual communication venues are working—for instance, immediately after the Iranian elections, the Chinese government tried to shut down Twitter within their own country. We need a dedicated response by democratic countries to prevent these shut downs from happening. “Political, racial, and religious hatred must be addressed forcefully by the world community. I will continue to dedicate my efforts toward eradicating all forms of hatred and zealously defending the fundamental freedoms and rights of all human beings. We have an obligation to speak up as a democracy against authoritarian regimes that are threatening the civil rights and liberties of its people.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
07.28.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the deadly capsizing of a boat off the coast of the Turks and Caicos thought to be carrying nearly 200 Haitian migrants. “This tragedy is a sad reminder of the hopelessness and desperation facing the Haitian people,” said Hastings. “Nearly one year ago, Haiti suffered damage equivalent to 8-10 hurricane Katrinas hitting the United States in one month alone, and since that time, the current economic crisis has practically dried up the remittances on which so many Haitian families rely. With hurricane season upon us once again, it is immoral and irresponsible to continue to deny Haitians Temporary Protected Status. “Critics argue that granting TPS will compel Haitians to leave their country. Tragedies such as this make it clear that the opposite is true,” continued Hastings. “Those living on the island feel they have no choice but to risk their lives and take to the seas. Meanwhile, the United States has the power to provide this devastated nation immediate, substantial relief. TPS will provide Haitians with the hope and opportunity to improve their lives in their homeland, and will allow the Haitian government to invest all of their limited resources in Haiti’s long-term recovery and sustainable development.” Hastings is a leader in the fight to end double-standard immigration practices as they pertain to Haitian migrants. He is the author of H.R. 144, the Haitian Protection Act, legislation which would designate Haitian nationals in the United States as eligible for TPS, and he recently introduced H.Con.Res. 165, a bipartisan, concurrent resolution expressing Congress’ support for TPS. Hastings has been calling for the extension of TPS to Haitian nationals for years and has been continuously engaged with the current and previous administrations on this matter. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
07.28.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the withdrawal of his amendment to H.R. 3326, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2010. The Hastings amendment would have prohibited the use of funds to carry out the provisions in Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell regarding investigating and separating soldiers who admit they are homosexual or bisexual. (Please find attached a copy of the amendment.) “I introduced an amendment to H.R. 3326, now withdrawn, prohibiting the use of funds in this bill to investigate or discharge our dedicated service men and women on the grounds of ‘telling’ their sexual orientation. The Policy Concerning Homosexuality in the Armed Forces – commonly called ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ – provides that a service member can be separated from the Armed Forces for stating that he or she is a homosexual or bisexual. Due to pressure from some of my Congressional colleagues and from the White House, I have withdrawn my amendment. I would, however, like to note that it is most unfortunate that we are not addressing Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell at this time. We should not be appropriating funds to enable qualified service members to be booted out just because they are honest about whom they are. “I realize that this issue is considered controversial. But, it shouldn’t be. The vast majority of Americans not only support the inclusion of gay service members in the military, but also the repeal of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell. As many as 75 percent of Americans support openly gay service members in the military. This support commands undeniable majorities for men and women, liberals and conservatives, veterans and non-veterans, all age groups, and across the religious spectrum. It is far past time to eliminate Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell. While my amendment would not have repealed the law, withholding this funding would have made it that much easier. “Americans recognize that forcing men and women out of the military on the basis of sexual orientation is not only blatantly discriminatory, but harms our national security and, indeed, runs counter to the values of our Armed Forces. We cannot afford to lose any more of our soldiers to the vagaries of outdated bigotry. Every day, we lose approximately two service members to Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell. Our country is engaged in two wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Our military has spent over $95.1 million on retraining soldiers because of this law. What is the holdup, then? Last month, 76 of my colleagues and I sent a letter to President Obama urging him to take leadership on this issue and to work together with Congress to repeal this law. More than a month later, I have yet to receive an official response. “I continue to hear the phrase, ‘next year, next year’ with regard to repealing Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell. That is absurd. This law is plain wrong. It is wrong now and it will be wrong then. How many more soldiers are we going to force to suffer through the humiliation of a so-called ‘investigation?’ How many more Arabic- and Farsi-speaking soldiers are we going to remove from duty, depriving our country of valuable, even life-saving intelligence? How many more combat veterans are we going to tell that we don’t need their experience because their sexual orientation somehow precludes them from serving their country? If we know we are going to repeal this law eventually, then why not take action right now?” On June 22, Hastings and 76 Members of Congress sent a letter to President Barack Obama urging him to suspend the investigation and discharge of service members in the Armed Forces because of their sexual orientation. Under the discriminatory law known as “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,” openly gay and lesbian service members and those suspected of “homosexual conduct” may not serve in the military. (Please find attached a copy of the letter.) Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### 07-27-09_DoD_Amendment_-_Congressman_Alcee_L._Hastings.pdf Rep_Alcee_L._Hastings_DADT_Letter_6.22.09.pdf
07.27.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) announced the launch of his new Congressional Web site. Starting from a blank slate, the refreshed Web site was designed with a focus on the constituents of the 23rd district. Featuring a warm, inviting color scheme and design layout that is organized for easier access, the Web site now also features integrated connectivity to social networking sites such as Facebook, YouTube, and Flickr for constituents and visitors alike to stay synced with Hastings activities in Washington and in Florida’s 23rd district. “I am excited to launch my new Congressional Web site. I hope that my constituents find the information on this site to be useful and informative,” noted Hastings. The new Web site aims to provide current, relevant, and useful information, as well as constituent resources. On the new Web site, visitors can: Read the latest news in the district and in Washington; Learn where Congressman Hastings stands on a number of issues important to his constituents and our country as a whole; Subscribe to his RSS feed; Read his blog; Subscribe to his e-newsletter; Share your comments and concerns; Obtain help with constituent services; Request a tour of the U.S. Capitol and White House; Learn more about federal grant opportunities; Find out more about Congressman Hastings’ student internship program; Watch video clips; Access constituent services and resources in Spanish and Creole; And much, much more. ###
07.18.2009	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) announced the following district events for Saturday, July 18, 2009: 12:00 PM - Guest Speaker at the Stewards College of the Federation of Public Employees Plantation High School 6901 NW 16th Street Plantation, FL 7:00 PM - Guest Speaker at the Haitian Citizen United Taskforce Forum on Temporary Protected Status (TPS) Embassy Suites Hotel 661 NW 53 Street Boca Raton, FL Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
07.17.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced a bipartisan concurrent resolution expressing support for temporary protected status (TPS) for Haitian nationals currently residing in the United States. (Please find attached a copy of the resolution.) “Last summer, Haiti experienced deadly food riots that led to the removal of its Prime Minister. Shortly thereafter the country was ravaged by four back-to-back natural disasters that left the nation unable to provide basic governmental services. Still today, the ability of the Haitian government to provide even basic services remains severely compromised,” said Hastings. “Haiti, now more than ever, meets all of the requirements for TPS, and yet, not once have Haitian nationals been granted this much needed assistance,” continued Congressman Hastings. “I applaud Haiti’s efforts toward recovery, but it would be inappropriate to deport Haitians at a time when the Haitian government is still unable to adequately care for and protect its citizens. If it is unsafe for our citizens to travel to Haiti, then those same conditions should make it much too dangerous to forcibly repatriate Haitians at this time.” “It is time to let the people of Haiti know that this Congress recognizes the hardships that Haiti has faced in the past year and that we stand with them as they work to recover and rebuild. I urge my colleagues to support this resolution, and I can only hope that its passage will send a clear message to this administration that now is the time to act and lend Haiti this much needed helping hand.” Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors of the resolution include: Representatives Kendrick Meek (D-FL), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Corrine Brown (D-FL), Yvette Clark (D-NY), Gregory Meeks (D-NY), Donald Payne (D-NJ), Donna Edwards (D-MD), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Jesse Jackson, Jr. (D-IL), Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ), James McGovern (D-MA), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Robert Wexler (D-FL), Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Joseph Crowley (D-NY), and Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC). Hastings is a leader in the fight to end double-standard immigration practices as they pertain to Haitian migrants. He is the author of H.R. 144, the Haitian Protection Act, legislation which would designate Haitian nationals in the United States as eligible for TPS. Hastings has been calling for the extension of TPS to Haitian nationals for years and has been continuously engaged in correspondence with the Obama administration on this matter. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### HASTFL_H.Con.Res._Haiti_7.17.09.pdf
07.16.2009	Tonight, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced a resolution expressing the sense of Congress regarding Black-Jewish relations and the June 10, 2009 shooting at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, D.C. In particular, the resolution honors the historic relationship between African Americans and Jewish Americans and the sacrifice of Special Police Officer Stephen T. Johns in his defense of the staff and visitors of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum. (Please click here for a copy of the resolution) “Last week’s tragic act of violence reminds us yet again that black Americans and Jewish Americans share a great deal in common. Our two communities have a long history of fighting injustice and hate, whether in the form of racism, anti-Semitism, xenophobia, or any other form of senseless hatred. We have so often stood together, united in our desire to create a world free from the kind of violence that plagued this nation last week. When Jewish Americans helped found the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in 1909 and the Urban League in 1910, they did so out of a conviction that by mitigating the evils of racial intolerance all people would benefit from an America free of discrimination and committed to equal justice and equal opportunity for all,” said Hastings. “I hope that last week’s shooting at the Holocaust Museum will not be dismissed as the random ravings of a crazed lunatic. But let us also not forget that there have been many more acts of violence here in this country since last week, and it is incumbent upon both of our communities – indeed, our entire society – to boldly confront not only the white supremacists but also the gang violence, and not only the anti-Jewish screeds but also the horrific racial diatribes littering the social conscience. We must not only improve security at the Holocaust Museum and other Jewish institutions but also put more police on the streets in our urban neighborhoods; not only redouble our efforts on education, training, and outreach but also take concrete measures to expand opportunities like college, jobs, and health care to all Americans. Let us once again have African Americans and Jewish Americans stand together for justice and equality.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
07.16.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) reintroduced the Presidential Commission to Study the Culture and Glorification of Violence in America Act. The bill would establish a commission to study the culture of violence in the United States, the factors that contribute to this culture, and the actions that can be taken to mitigate its effects. (Please click here for a copy of the bill) “Unfortunately, we have created a culture where violence and aggression are more idealized than hard work and kindness,” Hastings noted. “This pandemic has been ignored for far too long. We cannot forsake another generation to this threat. We must examine the glaring correlation between the glorification of violence in the media and its manifestation in our society.” Members of the Commission will determine what connections exist between violence and access to firearms, psychological stress, economic despair, and other factors. They will also examine what role schools can play in preventing violence and propose possible solutions to address the glorification of violence in the United States. “This legislation is simply a small step toward addressing what has become a destructive parasite upon the future of our country,” Hastings also stated. “By learning how the media and society promote violence and examining ways in which we can address this most pressing dilemma, it is my hope that we can stem the tide of violence and crime in America so that subsequent generations can live in a more peaceful nation.” According to the Department of Justice (DoJ) there were 1,408,337 serious violent crimes in 2007. Most susceptible to this, were teens and young adults. In a 2005 study, 28% of school students reported being bullied within the previous 6 months. Simultaneously, according to DoJ, the incarceration rate has continually increased since the 1980s; half of those imprisoned were violent offense related. The Presidential Commission to Study the Culture and Glorification of Violence in America Act was last introduced in the 110th Congress by Hastings. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
07.16.2009	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) sent the following letter to the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), W. Craig Fugate. The letter responds to FEMA’s plans to establish emergency ‘base camps’ in the event of a disaster or emergency anywhere in the continental United States. In particular, the letter highlights legislation (H.R. 645, the National Emergency Centers Establishment Act) that was reintroduced by Hastings at the beginning of the 111th Congress, which would create six national emergency centers throughout the United States to better respond to national emergencies. (Please find below a copy of the letter and click here for a PDF) Hastings legislation would establish national emergency centers on military bases, preferably those which were closed during the most recent round of Base Realignment and Closures (BRAC). Such sites are effective for disaster relief and management purposes because they already contain the necessary infrastructure to house, feed, transport, care for, and educate thousands of people at a time, including space for stockpiling large amounts of humanitarian relief supplies. June 16, 2009 The Honorable Craig Fugate Administrator Office of the Director Federal Emergency Management Agency 500 C Street S.W. Washington, D.C. 20472 Dear Administrator Fugate: I write regarding FEMA's efforts to establish “base camps” to provide temporary housing for citizens displaced in a natural disaster. You will be pleased to learn that I have already introduced legislation to this effect, and would be glad to assist you in improving disaster preparedness, training, and response. As you know, disaster preparedness is of special concern to Floridians. In the last ten years Florida has been affected by twenty major disasters caused by hurricanes and tropical storms. In the aftermath of those events, the communities affected by these disasters have experienced great hardship due to the lack of adequate temporary housing and ineffective coordination of federal resources and efforts. To cite one example, citizens were still living in FEMA trailers more than 18 months after Hurricane Wilma struck in 2005. While I applaud FEMA’s efforts to establish “base camps,” I am worried that in its present form the project, which is expected to serve 300-2,000 people, will not be sufficient for a major disaster. For example, Hurricane Katrina, which damaged or destroyed over one million homes in the Gulf States, also displaced many hundreds of thousands of people, tens of thousands of whom were forced to rely on FEMA, the Red Cross, and other humanitarian organizations for temporary shelter. Simply put, FEMA’s current “base camps” project is not enough. In January 2009, I introduced H.R. 645, the National Emergency Centers Establishment Act. This legislation establishes six National Emergency Centers throughout the United States to be used as central locations for temporary housing and humanitarian relief in the event of a major natural disaster. In addition, these centers can be used year-round for coordinated training and preparedness efforts for first responders from public and private agencies. These National Emergency Centers would be located on military bases, preferably those which were closed during the most recent round of Base Realignment and Closures (BRAC). Such sites are effective for disaster relief and management purposes because they already contain the necessary infrastructure to house, feed, transport, care for, and educate thousands of persons at a time, including space for stockpiling large amounts of humanitarian relief supplies. Furthermore, making use of these bases would be cheaper, quicker, and more effective than contracting private companies to create new facilities. The availability of barracks, kitchens, warehouses, hospitals, and transportation facilities at these bases – all of which can be quickly upgraded or retrofitted – would mitigate the need to build them from scratch I look forward to working with you to develop the most efficient and effective means of disaster preparedness, training, response, and recovery plans. Thank you for your attention to this matter. With warm regards, I remain, Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
07.16.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) announced that Kenneth Saelee of Hollywood, FL has won the 28th Annual Congressional Art Competition for Florida’s 23rd Congressional district. Reflecting on a national theme of “change,” Kenneth’s painting, entitled “Change,” was selected to represent the 23rd district in Washington for the next year. “I received many creative submissions, but Kenneth’s work really stood out,” said Hastings. “This competition provides an excellent opportunity for students to display their talent. Art is a reflection of our culture and society. It is imperative that we continue to nurture the skills of our young artists.” Kenneth Saelee, a senior at Stranahan High School, is a talented artist and aspiring engineer who balances his challenging senior schedule of AP Calculus, AP Physics, and Robotics with three sports. Like Kenneth himself, “Change” combines artistic creativity with an engineer’s eye for detail. His drawing of President Barack Obama incorporates the words “Obama” and “change” throughout. In addition to winning the local competition, Kenneth will travel along with his parents and art teacher to Washington next week to attend an honors reception with other national winners. The drawing will be unveiled in a reception hosted by the House of Representatives and displayed for one year in the U.S. Capitol. Hastings’ Art Competition is held annually and is open to any student attending a school located in the 23rd Congressional district, which includes parts of Broward, Palm Beach, Martin, St. Lucie, and Hendry Counties. Artwork that can be submitted range from paintings, drawings, collages, prints, mixed media, computer generated art, and photography. Students and teachers interested in learning more about the Congressional Art Competition should contact Hastings’ Ft. Lauderdale Office at (954) 733-2800. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
07.16.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement commemorating the importance of Juneteenth in American history: “On June 19, 1865, two thousand Union troops under General Gordon Granger marched into Galveston, Texas, taking control of the state. Under General Granger’s command, Texas was returned back to the Union which enforced President Lincoln’s signage of the Emancipation Proclamation. It had been almost three years since the declaration was authorized freeing the slaves living in bondage across the country, when the message finally arrived to men and women in Texas. As such, June 19th became known as Juneteenth and remains an important day in our nation’s history. “This year, we add to this celebration of freedom the formal apology from the Unites States Congress for slavery and the years of Jim Crow law that plagued our nation. On June 18, 2009, the U.S. Senate passed their version of the U.S. House of Representatives resolution adopted just last year expressing regret for those dark years of our history. This apology is an important symbol of growth and healing, however it must be followed with substantive actions to address enduring disparities as well as intolerance.” “While we celebrate our great accomplishments in the fight for equal rights, we also must look ahead and continue the work of those who have gone before us. We only need to look at the failing school systems, impoverished living environments, and high unemployment rates disproportionately impacting people of color to realize that our work is not yet done.” “As we celebrate Juneteenth, I urge people everywhere to join me in reflecting on how our country has evolved into a nation that understands the importance of protecting the rights, liberties and privileges of all people. I encourage you to learn about these golden moments in our history, talk to your children and colleagues about the strides we have made, and the work we still need to do. We are only able to move forward with open and sincere conversation about how we can address areas of disparities in our local community, state, and country as a whole. It is imperative that we continue our unique American tradition of fighting for equality and justice in all realms of our lives.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
07.16.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) and 76 Members of Congress sent the following letter to President Barack Obama urging him to suspend the investigation and discharge of service members in the Armed Forces because of their sexual orientation. Under the discriminatory law known as “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,” openly gay and lesbian service members and those suspected of “homosexual conduct” may not serve in the military. By taking leadership of the important issue of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell, President Obama would allow openly gay and lesbian service members to continue serving their country and send a clear signal to Congress to initiate the legislative repeal process. A bilateral approach would demonstrate the United States’ lasting commitment to justice and equality for all. This letter comes at a time when a majority of Americans favor allowing gay and lesbian service members to serve openly. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter) “Approximately two service members are lost to this misguided, unjust, and flat-out discriminatory policy every day. At a time when we are engaged in two wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, our lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender service members offer mission-critical skills that enhance our military’s competence and readiness and ensure our national security. It is my sincere hope that President Obama, together with Congress, will take swift and meaningful action on the dishonorable and debilitating law that is Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,” said Hastings. The letter was authored by Hastings and signed by Representatives Barney Frank (D-MA), John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Fortney “Pete” Stark (D-CA), Edward J. Markey (D-MA), Gary Ackerman (D-NY), Louise Slaughter (D-NY), Eliot Engel (D-NY), Jim McDermott (D-WA), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), José Serrano (D-NY), James Moran (D-VA), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Ed Pastor (D-AZ), James Clyburn (D-SC), Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Bob Filner (D-CA), Luis Gutierrez (D-IL), Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Robert “Bobby” Scott (D-VA), Bennie Thompson (D-MS), Nydia Velázquez (D-NY), Melvin Watt (D-NC), Lynn Woolsey (D-CA), Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Chaka Fattah (D-PA), Jane Harman (D-CA), Lois Capps (D-CA), Donna M. Christensen (D-VI), Diana DeGette (D-CO), Bill Delahunt (D-MA), Carolyn Cheeks Kilpatrick (D-MI), Dennis Kucinich (D-OH), Barbara Lee (D-CA), James McGovern (D-MA), Brad Sherman (D-CA), Robert Wexler (D-FL), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Shelley Berkley (D-NV), Michael Capuano (D-MA), Joseph Crowley (D-NY), Rush Holt (D-NJ), John Larson (D-CT), Grace Napolitano (D-CA), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Anthony Weiner (D-NY), David Wu (D-OR), William Lacy Clay (D-MO), Mike Honda (D-CA), James Langevin (D-RI), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Diane Watson (D-CA), Tim Bishop (D-NY), Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ), Linda Sánchez (D-CA), Emanuel Cleaver (D-MO), Doris Matsui (D-CA), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Debbie Wasserman Schulz (D-FL), André Carson (D-IN), Kathy Castor (D-FL), Yvette Clarke (D-NY), Donna F. Edwards (D-MD), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Marcia L. Fudge (D-OH), Phil Hare (D-IL), Mazie K. Hirono (D-HI), Laura Richardson (D-CA), Joe Sestak (D-PA), Niki Tsongas (D-MA), Peter Welch (D-VT), Alan Grayson (D-FL), Jared Polis (D-CO), Mike Quigley (D-IL), and Gregorio Sablan (D-MP). This is in keeping with other calls for executive action as advocated by the Human Rights Campaign, the Servicemembers Legal Defense Network, Knights Out, the Washington Post OP-ED by retired General John M. Shalikashvili, and documents put out by the Palm Center at the University of California, Santa Barbara. June 22, 2009 The Honorable Barack H. ObamaPresident of the United StatesThe White HouseWashington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Obama: The United States of America prides itself on having the finest military in the world because of the hard work, dedication, and sacrifices of our brave servicemen and women. And yet, under 10 U.S.C. § 654 (Policy Concerning Homosexuality in the Armed Forces), better known as “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,” the talents and contributions of our openly gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) service members continue to be ignored simply because of who they are. Every day, we lose approximately two service members to this misguided, unjust, and flat-out discriminatory policy. Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell is not only an injustice to them, but a disservice to the U.S. military and our country as a whole. As you know, Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell was signed into law in 1993 by former President Bill Clinton as a compromise to allow gay and lesbian service members to serve in the military – so long as they did not disclose their sexual orientations. Fifteen years later, Don’t Ask Don’t Tell is instead negatively impacting the lives and livelihoods of these military professionals and depriving our Armed Forces of their honorable service. Since you took office on January 20, 2009, more than 250 gay and lesbian service members have been discharged under this law, which continues to undermine and demoralize the more than 65,000 gay and lesbian Americans currently serving on active duty. Although we are confident that you will remain true to your campaign promise to end Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell, our LGBT service members and our country’s national security will continue to suffer if initial action is delayed until 2010 or 2011. We urge you to exercise the maximum discretion legally possible in administering Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell until Congress repeals the law. To this end, we ask that you direct the Armed Services not to initiate any investigation of service personnel to determine their sexual orientation, and that you instruct them to disregard third party accusations that do not allege violations of the Uniform Code of Military Justice. That is, we request that you impose that no one is asked and that you ignore, as the law requires, third parties who tell. Under your leadership, Congress must then repeal and replace Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell with a policy of inclusion and non-discrimination. This bilateral strategy would allow our openly gay and lesbian service members to continue serving our country and demonstrate our nation’s lasting commitment to justice and equality for all. As the United States continues to work towards responsibly ending the War in Iraq and refocus on the threat from al Qaeda in Afghanistan and Pakistan, our LGBT service members offer invaluable skills that enhance our country’s military competence and readiness. Despite the great strain on our military's human resources, the Armed Forces have discharged almost 800 mission-critical troops and at least 59 Arabic and nine Farsi linguists under Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell in the last five years. This is indefensible. The financial cost alone of implementing Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell from Fiscal Year 1994-2003 was more than $363.8 million. Our nation’s military has always held itself to the highest standards, and we must recruit and retain the greatest number of our best and brightest. To do anything less only hurts our country’s military readiness and our service members. We also want to bring to your attention the most recent examples of the failed Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell policy in action. New York National Guard First Lieutenant Dan Choi and Air Force Lieutenant Colonel Victor Fehrenbach are two exceptional servicemen who have dedicated their lives to defending our country and protecting the American people. Their bravery and abilities have been tested in combat, and now they face impending discharge under Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell. First Lieutenant Choi, a current National Guardsman with the 1st Battalion of the 69th Infantry in Manhattan, is a West Point graduate, Arabic language specialist, and Iraq War veteran who is under investigation for refusing to lie about his identity. Lieutenant Colonel Fehrenbach, Assistant Director of Operations for the 366th Operations Support Squadron at Mountain Home Air Force Base in Idaho, has honorably served his country for 18 years as an F-15E pilot. He has received nine air medals, including a Medal for Heroism during the 2003 invasion of Iraq, and was hand-picked to protect the airspace over Washington, D.C. after the Pentagon was attacked on September 11, 2001. Lieutenant Colonel Fehrenbach, who has flown combat missions in Iraq and Afghanistan against the Taliban and al Qaeda, continues to serve while the recommendation for his honorable discharge moves forward to a review board, and eventually to the Secretary of the Air Force. Just two years away from his 20-year retirement, he stands to lose $46,000 a year in retirement and medical benefits for the rest of his life if discharged. The American people and service members of the Armed Forces overwhelmingly support the repeal of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell. According to a national Gallup poll conducted in May 2009, 69 percent of Americans, including 58 percent of Republicans, favor allowing openly gay men and lesbian women to serve in the military. Furthermore, a 2006 poll of 545 troops who served in Iraq and Afghanistan by Zogby International and the Michael D. Palm Center at the University of California, Santa Barbara revealed that 73 percent are personally comfortable with gay men and lesbian women. John Shalikashvili, former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff during the Clinton administration, and more than 100 retired admirals and generals support this repeal, in addition to the Human Rights Campaign, the Servicemembers Legal Defense Network, and Knights Out, an organization of LGBT West Point alumni co-founded by First Lieutenant Choi. Mr. President, we cannot afford to lose any more of our dedicated and talented service members to Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell. On behalf of First Lieutenant Choi, Lieutenant Colonel Fehrenbach, and the more than 12,500 gay and lesbian service members who have been discharged since Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell was implemented in 1994, we stand ready to assist you in repealing this dishonorable and debilitating law as soon as possible, and in restoring justice and equality in our Armed Forces. Please know that we will continue to monitor this situation and are hopeful that, together, we can address this urgent issue soon. Thank you for your consideration and we look forward to your response. ### Rep_Alcee_L._Hastings_DADT_Letter_6.22.09.pdf
07.16.2009	The House of Representatives yesterday passed H.R. 2892, the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2010 by a vote of 389-37. Included in the legislation was an amendment introduced by Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar), to keep open the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Florida Long-Term Recovery Office in Orlando. (Please click here for a copy of the amendment) “The Florida Long-Term Recovery Office is one of Florida's most critical tools to deal with hurricanes and other disasters. It is counterproductive to FEMA’s aims of disaster relief and recovery to close an office that has proven time and time again its value and need,” said Hastings. “This amendment seeks to ensure that FEMA’s Florida Long Term Recovery Office in Orlando remains in its present site so it can continue to provide outstanding service to all Floridians at times when they are at their most vulnerable.” FEMA's Florida Long-Term Recovery Office was established in 2005 in response to the 2004 hurricane season and has since become a crucial underpinning of Florida's efforts to prepare and respond to disasters. In past years, work done by the Office has greatly contributed to reduced costs in disaster response as well as the saving of lives. The Office has been successful in expediting recovery efforts and public assistance reimbursements to state and local governments while also providing significant mitigation funding and guidance to local governments working to reduce their risk from future storms. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
07.16.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) commemorated National HIV Testing Day by highlighting the very real threat the United States continues to face from this disease. “More than one million people in the United States are living with HIV and someone is infected with HIV in the United States every 9 ½ minutes. Unfortunately, over 250,000 people living with HIV/AIDS are unaware of their status and roughly 40% of people living with AIDS are diagnosed at a late stage, which increases the likelihood of mortality, morbidity, and transmission of the disease,” said Hastings. This Saturday, June 27, 2009, health departments, organizations, and HIV/AIDS testing sites in more than 90 cities across the country will use this day to educate and provide services to residents through health fairs, special events, and extended testing hours. “This disease has devastated so many lives. I am proud to say that, throughout my tenure in Congress, I have contributed to the fight against HIV/AIDS by hosting a series of town hall meetings, voting in favor of comprehensive HIV/AIDS related legislation, and supported grassroots organizations that work hard to lessen the burden of HIV/AIDS in America and abroad.” On March 31, Hastings introduced a resolution commemorating the life of Pedro Zamora, a tremendous leader in the fight against HIV/AIDS, especially in the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) community. Additionally, he plans to soon introduce a comprehensive bill that is designed to increase access to voluntary screening for HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted infections. “Left untreated, stigma and misinformation about HIV/AIDS is as deadly as the virus itself. I commend the National Association of People with AIDS for establishing National HIV Testing Day and other organizations and individuals who have worked tirelessly –whether on a local, state, or national level– to combat one of the most serious global health concerns in modern history.” For a testing site closest to you, visit http://www.hivtest.org/. For more information about National HIV Test Day, visit http://napwa.org/. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
07.16.2009	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), Co-Chairman of the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe (U.S. Helsinki Commission), will participate in an election observation mission to Albania June 26-29. Albanian parliamentary elections are set for June 28. It will be the first election to require voters to show a new voter ID card or passport to cast their ballot. Preliminary monitoring by the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) shows challenges remain for the country to pull off a free and fair election by international standards. There have been allegations that applications for ID cards have been filled more quickly for supporters of the ruling Democratic party. “Coming from Florida, I know all too well about voters being disenfranchised on Election Day,” Co-Chairman Hastings said. “Having held a briefing about this upcoming election and heard concerns about whether registered voters will in fact receive their ID cards in time for Election Day, I sincerely hope Albania’s ID card experiment does not cost voters their voice stolen at the voting booths.” Hastings will be the Deputy Head of the Observation Mission. Austrian MP Wolfgang Grossruck will lead the mission as Special Coordinator. “Election issues continue to exist and to mar Albania’s democratic credentials,” Hastings said. “Even if a last-minute rush to correct things in Albania succeeds, it will only repeat a disturbing pattern from previous elections of not taking action quickly enough to make a real difference in the electoral system for the next, regularly scheduled election.” The Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe, also known as the U.S. Helsinki Commission, is an independent agency of the Federal Government charged with monitoring compliance with the Helsinki Accords and advancing comprehensive security through promotion of human rights, democracy, and economic, environmental and military cooperation in 56 countries. The Commission consists of nine members from the U.S. Senate, nine from the House of Representatives, and one member each from the Departments of State, Defense, and Commerce. ###
07.16.2009	Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2997, the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2010 by a vote of 266-160. Included in the Act were two amendments introduced by Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar). Both amendments increase funding for research into pollinator decline and Colony Collapse Disorder (CCD). (Please click for copies of Amendment 1 | Amendment 2) “Congress must continue to secure the necessary funding to proactively address pollinator decline. The fact of the matter is that pollinators are responsible for vast portions of our food supply and exported crops, which makes their decline an urgent matter of economic and food security,” said Hastings. “Without an adequate supply of natural pollinators, many crops would require hand pollination, which would dramatically raise crop prices.” In the 110th Congress, Hastings introduced the first legislation to investigate the cause of Colony Collapse Disorder, H.R. 1709, the Pollinator Protection Act. This legislation was supported by a bipartisan coalition of 52 co-sponsors and sought to bolster funding for the initiatives addressed in Hastings’ recent amendments. The Pollinator Protection Act was later incorporated into HR 2419, the Food, Conservation and Energy Act of 2008, often referred to as the Farm Bill (Public Law No: 110-234). “My amendments ensure that funds are directed towards competitive grants offered by the National Institute of Food and Agriculture and funding for the Agricultural Research Service, both of which are programs at the forefront of research into Colony Collapse Disorder and the problem of pollinator decline. My mission is to ensure that these programs will receive adequate funding from Congress so that they can continue their vital work.” “These amendments help to guarantee that our Nation’s food supply remains plentiful and affordable to the many American who are struggling during our current economic downturn. I thank the members of Congress who recognized the importance of these vital provisions.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
07.16.2009	Last night, the House of Representatives passed H.R.2647, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 by a vote of 389-22. Included in H.R.2647 were two amendments introduced by Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar). Hastings’ first amendment prohibits the recruitment, enlistment, and retention in the Armed Services of individuals affiliated with extremist groups. The second Hastings amendment authorizes the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) to have access to detainees held at Bagram Air Base in Afghanistan. (Please click for copies of Amendment 1 | Amendment 2) “Individuals serving in the military while adhering to the ideology of extremist groups are not only antithetical to the values and traditions of the United States Armed Forces, but they also pose a domestic security threat. The United States Government should not be providing the highest quality of military training in the world to individuals who hope to use that training in a ‘race war’ or in an effort to overthrow the United States Government. “The Armed Forces already have a great many regulations in place regarding the prohibition on extremist activities by military personnel. But the problem is that in many instances recruiters and commanding officers are looking the other way. “The men and women of the United States military uphold our nation’s highest ideals, fighting for freedom and human dignity in all corners of the world. Individuals who are dedicated to groups that espouse hatred and violence based on race, ethnicity, religion, class, or sexual orientation, have no place in this cherished American institution,” said Hastings. Responding to the passage of the second amendment to H.R.2647, Hastings noted, “It is the responsibility of this Congress to ensure that the ICRC has the statutory support necessary to carry out their mission. “The best way to ensure this is to apply a process of transparency and accountability. I have always deeply respected the work of the ICRC. They approach their work with dedication, intelligence, compassion, and confidentiality and remain above the political fray to ensure that the United States Government upholds basic human rights. The ICRC’s efforts in this regard are absolutely essential. “While we continue to engage in combat we will continue to detain people. We must ensure that these persons are treated humanely and decently.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
07.16.2009	Last night, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3081, the State-Foreign Operations Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2010 by a vote of 318 to 106. H.R. 3081 provides funding to strengthen our nation’s diplomatic capabilities and to provide for development programs that are critical to help stabilize key regions, fight the spread of disease, protect our environment, and combat the international drug trade. Included within H.R.3081 was an amendment introduced by Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) that provides additional funding for increased staff support for the U.S.-Brazil Joint Action Plan to Eliminate Racial and Ethnic Discrimination and Promote Equality (JAPER). (Please click here for a copy of the amendment) “The goal of JAPER is to work collaboratively with other countries towards eliminating racial and ethnic discrimination and to promote equality of opportunity for all people,” noted Hastings. “Since the program’s launch in 2008 its efforts have focused on education, minority political participation, entrepreneurship and the private sector, data collection on disparities, and youth.” “My amendment ensures that JAPER is staffed with up to four foreign and career service officers who have an expertise in eliminating racism and discrimination, in order to ensure the successful administration and implementation of its projects.” “It is an unfortunate reality that the JAPER initiative is currently understaffed. Thankfully Congress has recognized the importance of this program. This additional funding will allow JAPER to grow its international base of participants and enable it to undertake additional programs to fight racism and discrimination on a global scale.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
07.16.2009	Tonight, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3170, the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2010. Included in H.R. 3170 was an amendment offered by Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) that provides a funding increase to the National Credit Union Administration’s Community Development Revolving Loan Fund (CDRL). (Please click here for a copy of the amendment) “The CDRL fund provides grants and low-interest loans to assist ‘low-income’ credit unions in providing basic financial services to struggling communities. These funds have previously been used to expand member services, provide loans to un-banked communities as alternatives to payday loans, fund financial education services, and to generally increase the capacity of ‘low-income’ credit unions to serve their members and communities.” “It is important to remember in our current economic climate that not all financial institutions engaged in risky lending practices,” noted Hastings. “Credit unions, specifically those that serve low-income, rural, or disadvantaged communities, have consistently followed prudent and sound policies, yet are now being particularly hard hit by this current financial crisis.” “My amendment provides an increase of $250,000 to the CDRL fund, which reflects the added pressures placed upon ‘low-income’ credit unions and will allow them to continue to provide and expand their vital services during these tough financial times.” Hastings’ amendment was endorsed by the Credit Union National Association (CUNA), which represents 90 percent of America’s credit unions. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
07.09.2009	Just moments after taking the oath of office today, U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) reintroduced the Haitian Protection Act, legislation which will designate Haitian nationals currently living in the United States as eligible for temporary protected status (TPS) under section 244 of the Immigration and Nationality Act. share: f t Just moments after taking the oath of office today, U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) reintroduced the Haitian Protection Act, legislation which will designate Haitian nationals currently living in the United States as eligible for temporary protected status (TPS) under section 244 of the Immigration and Nationality Act. The reintroduction of this legislation comes on the same day as reports that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security has formally rejected Haiti's request for TPS. "By refusing to give Haiti TPS designation, our inequitable immigration polices continue to send a clear message: The safety of Haitian lives is not a priority compared to a Honduran, Nicaraguan, or Salvadoran life," charged Representative Hastings, referencing three of the six countries currently receiving TPS. TPS may be granted when any one of the following three conditions are met: there is ongoing armed conflict posing a serious threat to the personal safety of individuals; it is requested by a foreign state that temporarily cannot handle the return of nationals due to environmental disaster; or when extraordinary and temporary conditions in a foreign state exist which prevent aliens from returning. Haiti meets all of these requirements, any of which suffices, but the United States government, despite granting TPS to other deserving nationals, has never granted it to Haitians. "Haiti is making great strides to recover and rebuild from the devastating natural disasters that ravaged the island this summer and the deadly food riots that led to the removal of the Prime Minister in April," Representative Hastings continued. "It is outright shameful that our government has continued to reject Haiti's pleas for this vital assistance at a time when the Haitian government is doing everything possible to bring their country out of chaos and destruction. It is imperative that the United States seize every current opportunity to put our struggling neighbor on a path to sustained development." Representative Hastings is a leader in the fight to end double-standard immigration practices as they pertain to Haitian migrants. In the 110th Congress, he introduced H.R. 522, the Haitian Protection Act of 2007, a similar bill which gained 54 bipartisan cosponsors. Representative Hastings has been calling for the extension of TPS to Haitian nationals for years and has been continuously engaged in correspondence with the Bush Administration and President-elect Obama's transition team on this matter. Original cosponsors include: Rep. Corrine Brown, Rep. William D. Delahunt, Rep. Donna F. Edwards, Rep. Elliot L. Engel, Rep. Raúl M. Grijalva, Rep. Maurice D. Hinchey, Rep. Michael M. Honda, Rep. Sheila Jackson-Lee, Rep. Kendrick B. Meek, Rep. Eleanor Holmes Norton, Rep. Charles B. Rangel, Rep. Janice D. Schakowsky, Rep. Robert Wexler, and Rep. Lynn C. Woolsey.
07.09.2009	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on a shooting that took place shortly before 1 p.m. today at the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum in downtown Washington, DC. share: f t "I condemn in the strongest possible terms the heinous attack that took place earlier today at the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum. My thoughts and prayers go out to the families of the victims during this most difficult time," said Hastings. "We unfortunately live in a very different era, where we must always be vigilant of those who wish to cause harm to others." "This tragic event reminds us all that there are still people in this world who choose hate and intolerance over understanding and compassion. All across this nation, we have seen a resurgence of the noose and swastika, a rise of anti-Semitism, unjust equation of Muslims and migrants with terrorism, and violence against gays. We must work together across all racial, religious, gender and cultural lines and not allow these senseless acts to continue." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
07.09.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced a resolution encouraging the United States to participate in the 2010 Shanghai Expo. (Please find attached a copy of the resolution) share: f t "The upcoming 2010 Shanghai Expo brings together more than 170 countries, 70 million visitors, and thousands of displays of new and emerging technologies and products to spur economic growth and trade. Each participating country traditionally creates a pavilion to showcase its distinctive products, technological advances, and national culture," said Hastings. "I am concerned that the United States is in danger of being a no-show." "While we have made verbal commitments to participate, the necessary diplomatic and fundraising efforts have lagged. We risk jeopardizing an important opportunity to demonstrate our global leadership, improve relations with China, and convey to millions of visitors our country's many technological and cultural achievements. The Exposition's organizers are simply waiting for confirmation of our commitment to participate; we have less than a year to make it happen." The resolution highlights that the Universal Exposition, or World's Fair, dates back to the mid-19th century, making it older than the modern-day Olympics and behind only the FIFA World Cup and the Olympics in global economic and cultural impact. The United States has a long history of involvement in the World's Fair, including hosting almost 20 fairs, many of which have left lasting impressions on the nation. "The Chinese government has generously allocated over 60,000 square feet for the American pavilion, sharing that honor only with China. The American pavilion has already been conceived, and will feature environmentally-friendly and sustainable technologies and exhibitions. By not participating in this celebration of global diversity the US is depriving the international community of experiencing the very best of American initiative and innovation." For further information please visit the website http://en.expo2010.cn/ . Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### rep_alcee_l_hastings_shanghai_expo_resolution_6.4.09
07.09.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the brutal murder of Dr. George Tiller: share: f t "I condemn in the strongest possible terms, the cold-blooded murder of Dr. Tiller. To think that even a house of worship is not immune from brutal, relentless hatred and violence is utterly shocking and a call for action is necessary. We must stand together as a nation and not allow this type of ideological violence to be tolerated," said Hastings. Dr. Tiller had been a provider of abortions for over three decades and has been a focal point for those around the country who opposed it. In addition to protests outside his clinic, his house and his church, Dr. Tiller had once seen his clinic bombed. In 1993, an abortion opponent shot him in both arms. He was also the defendant in a series of legal challenges intended to shut down his operations, including two grand juries, only to be acquitted a few months ago. "I commend Attorney General Eric Holder for ordering increased security for the appropriate individuals and facilities after this heinous murder and I will continue to do whatever I can in Congress to preserve and protect a woman's right to choose." "Dr. Tiller was a husband, a father, a grandfather, a dedicated physician, and a pioneer. My thoughts and prayers go out to his family, his devoted staff, and to the greater community during this extremely difficult time." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
07.09.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) sent the following letter to the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), W. Craig Fugate. The letter urges FEMA to place greater focus on the availability of adequate and safe housing for displaced individuals during a natural disaster and the subsequent recovery phase. Additionally, Hastings urges Administrator Fugate to retain the FEMA Florida Long-Term Recovery Office in Orlando. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter) share: f t June 3, 2009 The Honorable William C. Fugate Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency 500 C Street S.W. Washington, D.C. 20472 Dear Administrator Fugate, Congratulations on your recent confirmation as Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). As a Member of the Florida delegation, I take comfort in your knowledge and understanding about the issues that Floridians encounter during natural disasters. I was pleased to work with you when you served as the Director of the Florida Division of Emergency Management, and I look forward to continuing our positive relationship. As such, I write to share my ongoing concerns regarding displaced residents still residing in temporary FEMA trailers and the lack of quality housing for future hurricanes. As you are aware, top FEMA officials briefed Congressional staff a few weeks ago to discuss the efforts underway to address past issues, specifically housing. The hurricanes of 2004 and 2005 brought extreme devastation and destruction to millions of Floridians, but the low-income residents of South Florida were hit the hardest. Much to my dismay, many of these residents remain in FEMA travel trailers today. Therefore, it is essential that displaced individuals are provided safe emergency housing with long-term accommodations. Moreover, I urge you to ensure that efforts are directed towards increasing the availability of housing for large numbers of displaced persons in the event of a catastrophic disaster. Further, I express strong opposition to recent reports about FEMA's deployment of staff from the Florida Long-Term Recovery Office (FLTRO) in Orlando to other areas of the country. As a disaster-prone state that has suffered from several devastating hurricanes in the last few years, FEMA has a responsibility to maintain a fully staffed and resourced office to assist in Florida's frequent relief and recovery efforts. I urge you to keep the existing FEMA FLTRO employees working within Florida and finally make this office permanent. It is critical that FEMA leverage the strong working relationships cultivated between FEMA staff and state and local officials over the last three years, and fully utilize the emergency management expertise possessed by the current FLTRO staff. Thank you for considering these very important issues. Please do not hesitate to contact me if I can be of further assistance as you work to improve FEMA's ability to swiftly and effectively prepare for and respond to national disasters. With warm regards, I remain, Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress ### letter_to_fema_administrator_fugate.6.3.09
07.09.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) urged Florida residents to plan ahead for the 2009 Hurricane Season, which begins June 1 and runs through the end of November. share: f t "It only takes one storm to wipe out a state. Therefore, we must be prepared early," said Hastings. "I encourage all Floridians to plan ahead for hurricane season by developing a pre-emergency hurricane plan, updating insurance policies, and storing enough supplies to last three to seven days. These supplies should include bottled water, non-perishable foods, batteries, medication, and personal hygiene items." Steps to consider when developing a pre-emergency hurricane plan: Hold family meeting for everyone's input, including children Discuss evacuation protocol (identify local evacuation zones) Ensure assets are protected (review all insurance policies) Assess home for vulnerable areas Make a plan to protect vehicles Secure your property Identify special medical needs or vulnerabilities Make plan for pets (must pre-register for shelters that take pets) Gather supplies for family (prepare hurricane kit to including recommendations listed above) Notify family and friends of hurricane plan "I will continue to do my part in Congress by advocating for much-needed reform as it relates to prioritizing power restoration, debris removal, getting generators at gas stations, and ensuring temporary housing is available to those individuals who have been displaced." Hastings, along with Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) have introduced H.R. 327, the National Hurricane Research Initiative Act of 2009, a comprehensive hurricane research bill that will improve hurricane research dramatically in the United States. The bill authorizes $2.35 billion in critical hurricane research funding to help scientists study and better understand how hurricanes form and intensify, as well as enhance early warning systems, infrastructure durability standards, and hurricane tracking and prediction capabilities. Additionally, Hastings has introduced H.R. 645, the National Emergency Centers Establishment Act of 2009, which would create six National Emergency Centers throughout the United States to better respond to national emergencies. The centers would provide temporary housing, medical, and humanitarian assistance, including education for individuals and families displaced due to an emergency. The centers will also serve as a centralized location for the training and coordination of first responders in the instance of an emergency. For further information on how to prepare for this year's hurricane season, please visit www.Floridadisaster.org. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
05.29.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the passing of Rev. Girard Jean-Juste, a Haitian Roman Catholic priest whose name resonates deeply within the Haitian community for his political activism in Haiti and in the United States. Rev. Jean-Juste died in a Miami-area hospital last Wednesday of complications from a stroke and lung problems. He was 62. "During this most difficult time, I want to extend my thoughts and prayers to Rev. Jean-Juste's family and friends. I hope that they take comfort in knowing that his memory and legacy of philanthropy and grassroots activism will live on for generations to come. "It is a sad time for all of those who struggle for human rights. Rev. Jean-Juste was a legend in Haiti, the Haitian-American community, and in the fight for immigration rights. He fought tirelessly for the rights of the poor, asylum seekers, refugees, and immigrants. In the late 1970s, Rev. Jean-Juste founded the Haitian Refugee Center in Miami. "Rev. Jean-Juste's work brought international attention to the dire political situation in Haiti and to the plight of Haitian refugees, resulting in changes in immigration policy that would later benefit countless others. When the U.S. government began to systematically deport Haitian immigrants, he fought to ensure that they received due process for asylum consideration. Rev. Jean-Juste courageously prevented buses from taking Haitian refugees away by lying on the ground in their path. Thanks to his activism, Haitian asylum seekers were able to obtain work permits for the first time. "After former President Jean-Bertrand Aristide left Haiti during a bloody coup in 2004, the U.S.-backed interim government jailed Rev. Jean-Juste out of political motivation. While in prison, and despite health problems, he never lost sight of his mission and continued raising awareness of Haitian civil and immigration rights. "I will treasure Rev. Jean-Juste's friendship and memory, and although his life has come to an end, he will be remembered for his selflessness and spirit. He not only confronted his own government, but pressured both Democratic and Republican administrations in the United States to treat Haitians fairly, humanely, and equally. I am proud and fortunate to call Rev. Jean-Juste my friend and will miss him dearly." ###
05.21.2009	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) praised the City of Hollywood, Florida City Commission for its instrumental support in the realization of the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Multicultural Art Project in Hollywood, Florida. "The memory, legacy and message of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. remain to this day an example of tolerance and hope over strife and injustice," said Hastings. "I commend City Manager Cameron Benson and Grants Manager Renée Jéan on bringing the dream of Dr. King to our community." The original art piece was created by Mr. Steven Whyte of Steven Whyte Studios in California. The hand-sculpted bronze bust of Dr. King weighs approximately 200 pounds and sits upon a large base that will be inscribed with the immortal words of Dr. King's famous "I Have a Dream" speech. This lasting tribute to Dr. King's dream and courage will become a permanent fixture in the regionally acclaimed ArtsPark at Young Circle, a public venue for arts, education, recreation and entertainment, and in the Hollywood community. The City of Hollywood will host the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Multicultural Art Project Dream Dedication and Unveiling Ceremony tonight from 6:00 pm to 8:00 pm in the ArtsPark at Young Circle. For further information please visit their website at http://www.hollywoodfl.org/html/MLKArtProjectDedication.htm. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
05.19.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) participated in a Strategic Policy Forum (SPF) program hosted by the National Defense University for the Secretary of Defense, entitled ‘Imperial Pursuit? Russia in the 21st Century.' The forum examined how political and economic "inputs" at the domestic, regional and international levels shape Russian decision-making "outputs" and identified the United States' response to them. Further, it looked at how domestic and international economic factors intersect, creating strategic limitations and preferences for Russia. The forum also discussed to what degree domestic changes, including in demographics, public opinion and the economy, influence evolving Russian political structures and foreign policy. For more information about this forum, please visit the Strategic Policy Forum's website www.ndu.edu/INSS/SPF. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
05.18.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) received the ‘Sentinel of Safety' award from the National Air Traffic Controllers Association (NATCA). This is NATCA's highest honor and is bestowed to an individual for his or her outstanding achievements in the advancement of aviation safety. Hastings made the following remarks before over 400 NATCA members upon receiving this award: "Thank you so much for that warm welcome. "And, thank you Vice President Rinaldi for that wonderful introduction. "It is always nice to be among friends. "I want to take this opportunity to recognize and thank Members of the National Executive Board. "In particular, I want to thank Mitch Herrick, Jim Marinitti, and Shane Ahern, and so many of their colleagues from Ft. Lauderdale, West Palm Beach and Miami International Airports, as well as the Miami Center. You all have become such good friends over the years. "I am honored to be with you this morning to accept the "Sentinel of Safety" award. "Two words come to mind as I accept this award - excellence and safety. As I look out into the audience, first I am a bit worried as to who is watching over the planes in the skies if you all are here. "But seriously, I think of the hard work and dedication each of you has committed yourselves to on a daily basis to ensure that our nation has the safest skies in the world. "Today, I share this award with all of you in this room and thank you from the bottom of my heart for all that you do. "In Congress, I have taken an aggressive leadership role against some of the ill-advised aviation policies that have come forth. "If the Federal Aviation Administration acts in such a way that will affect the safety of flights in my home state of Florida, I make no apologies for calling them to task. "I think everyone in this room knows exactly what I am talking about. The FAA's desire to transfer air traffic control TRACON functions from Palm Beach airport to Miami, and similar plots throughout the nation. "Simply put, this ill-advised move in South Florida will in fact make our skies less safe, despite the great work that controllers do each and every single day. "We all know that former President Bush was a union buster. It is a true testament that you did not allow him to succeed. "He went after you by saying that your job could be privatized, he said that you were overpaid, he went after you by stripping you of your right to collective bargaining and he pushed many of your colleagues into retirement. "My friends, when it comes to America's aviation system, President Obama and Congress have their hands full. "I commend NATCA's leadership in working with the Obama administration and Congress to resolve these matters. "For years, I have fought for a new tower at Palm Beach International Airport. And yet, with all their infinite wisdom, the FAA approved plans for a new tower, but intends to strip the TRACON out of PBI and move it to Miami. "By placing all of South Florida's major radar functions under one roof in Miami, the FAA is creating an extremely dangerous scenario, especially in light of the fact that Florida as you very well know is vulnerable to hurricanes and has been designated as a high-risk urban area. "If a hurricane were to barrel through Miami-Dade County and damage MIA's control tower and subsequent radar system, as Hurricane Andrew did, then it is highly possible, indeed likely, that emergency efforts in Palm Beach and South Florida could be dramatically hindered. "The FAA's contingency plan would require that controllers in Jacksonville, an airport more than 350 miles away, direct approaching aircraft not only in their assigned region, but throughout all of South Florida and virtually the entire state without additional staff and technology. "The House of Representatives has twice adopted amendments I authored that prohibited the FAA from moving forward on its consolidation plan. "The House voted to block FAA TRACON consolidation in 2006, and in June 2007, the House again adopted my Amendment. Unfortunately, the Republicans blocked the appropriations process and reauthorization in the Senate. "For my constituents, the FAA Reauthorization Act currently being considered in Congress contains a provision that I consider very important. It creates a process to ensure that these realignment efforts are properly reviewed and evaluated and that stakeholders are involved throughout the entire process. "This will help ensure that realignment decisions are not arbitrary nor are they made with only financial considerations taken into account. "This week, the House will once again take up the FAA Reauthorization Act and the time has come for action. "The time has come for us to take care of America's air traffic controllers and do what is absolutely necessary to retain and recruit the best controller workforce in the world. "Throughout my career, rarely have I seen a federal agency as dysfunctional, unorganized or downright incompetent as the FAA functioned under the Bush administration. "For years I have been fighting the FAA to stop the consolidation and realignment of South Florida air traffic control facilities. "And for years, I wrote to complain. And never heard back. "Then I picked up the phone and called. I never heard back. "Then I got downright upset and legislated. "President Bush did everything in his power to try to stop me in my tracks. The good news is Bush is gone and the even better news is that I am still standing here with all of you. "Friends, as you know, I take this very personally. "The lives of millions of people all across this country are in your hands every single day. I am sorry, but we can't be playing politics with one's personal safety every time he or she gets on a plane. "It is time to crack down on the intimidation that has taken place for far too long. Workers must be able to bargain for better wages and benefits. "This broken system must be fixed. I stand here today as your friend and ally in Congress who will fight on your behalf. "I thank you once again for this honor, which you have bestowed upon me. "This award will be displayed proudly in my office for the public to see my commitment to making our skies safer." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
05.14.2009	Today, Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) and Robert Wexler (D-Delray) sent the following letter to Courtyard Gardens Rehabilitation Center, LLC. The letter expresses concern regarding Courtyard Gardens' objectionable handling of the Jupiter Care Center ownership transfer. In particular, the letter urges Courtyard Gardens to retain the existing workforce and honor the terms of their existing union contract. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter). The letter was also signed by State Representative Priscilla Taylor; State Representative Mark Pafford; Tony Fransetta, President of the Florida Alliance of Retired Americans; Elna Laun, President, Palm Beach Democratic Club; Bob Bender, South Florida Activist Chorus; Mike Budd, Professor at FAU and Member of Veterans for Peace; RE Hersh, Retired Military, Member of the Truth Project; Kerry Gallagher, Chairwoman of the Board, The Lord's Place; and Jill Hanson, Executive Director of El Sol. May 14, 2009 Deborah Peck Courtyard Gardens Rehabilitation Center, LLC 1790 Indian Creek Drive West Jupiter, FL 33458-8203 Dear Ms. Peck, We write to express our concern regarding Courtyard Gardens Rehabilitation Center, LLC's ("Courtyard Gardens") objectionable handling of the Jupiter Care Center ownership transfer. In particular, we are troubled by the impact this will have on the residents' health and well-being, the local economy, and the caregivers. We understand that the nearly one-hundred caregivers at Jupiter Care Center have experienced a previous ownership transfer. As you know, Jupiter was owned by Beverly Enterprises and sold in 2000 to Salem Villages, which maintained the employment of the workers and assumed the terms of their union contract. Undeniably, the manner in which Courtyard Gardens is handling this latest transfer is highly unusual and disconcerting. Courtyard Gardens has stated it is opening the job search in order to retain and hire the best people; however, new nursing home operators traditionally retain the existing workforce for a variety of important reasons related to quality of care. This large-scale dismissal will undoubtedly be disruptive to the care of your residents, who are accustomed to being cared for by those whom they know and trust. In addition to our concerns regarding the disruption of quality, experienced care, we are troubled by the sudden and unnecessary job loss of the nearly one-hundred workers in Palm Beach County and the surrounding areas. We believe that the way in which the employees of the Jupiter Care Center were treated was unacceptable. Courtyard Gardens has further broken their agreement with Jupiter Care Center to conduct a job fair "exclusive for current employees." In fact, workers' first "notification" came from an article in the Jupiter Courier on Sunday, April 26th, which announced a job fair open to the public. We urge Courtyard Gardens to retain the existing workforce and honor the terms of your existing union contract. Thank you for your consideration on this matter. Sincerely, ­­­Alcee L. Hastings Robert Wexler Member of Congress Member of Congress Signees State Representative Priscilla Taylor State Representative Mark Pafford Tony Fransetta, President of the Florida Alliance of Retired Americans Elna Laun, President, Palm Beach Democratic Club Bob Bender, South Florida Activist Chorus Mike Budd, Professor at FAU and Member of Veterans for Peace RE Hersh, Retired Military, Member of the Truth Project Kerry Gallagher, Chairwoman of the Board, The Lord's Place Jill Hanson, Executive Director of El Sol CC: Kathryn Schmidt President and CEO Workforce Alliance ### courtyard_gardens_letter_5.14.09
05.14.2009	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the deadly boat accident off the southeast coast of Florida that was carrying Haitian migrants: "This tragedy is a sad reminder of the hopelessness and desperation facing the Haitian people," said Hastings. "Last summer, Haiti suffered damage equivalent to 8-10 hurricane Katrinas hitting the United States in one month alone, and since that time, the current economic crisis has practically dried up the remittances on which so many Haitian families rely. Until the United States takes decisive action, Haitians will continue to risk their lives." Hastings is a leader in the fight to end double-standard immigration practices as they pertain to Haitian migrants. He is the author of H.R. 144, the Haitian Protection Act, legislation which would designate Haitian nationals in the United States as eligible for TPS. Hastings has been calling for the extension of TPS to Haitian nationals for years and has been continuously engaged with the current and previous administrations on this matter. "Temporary Protected Status (TPS) would allow Haitians who are currently in the United States to temporarily stay and legally work so that they can support their families back in Haiti, and it would allow the Haitian government to commit all of its limited resources to the reconstruction and sustainable redevelopment of their ravaged country. While some maintain the unfounded fear that TPS will cause more Haitians to undertake this treacherous voyage, they only need to look to the dead bodies being pulled out of the water. While we do nothing, Haitians see no choice but to take to the seas. TPS will provide them with the hope and opportunity needed to build a stronger life in their homeland." "The people of Haiti have been victimized by our country's double-standard immigration policies for far too long. As we wait for humanitarian relief to trickle into the hands of Haiti's starving population, the United States has the power to provide this devastated nation immediate, substantial relief. On April 8th, I sent a letter to President Obama urging him to make a decision on TPS, the people of Haiti cannot afford to wait. It has been well over a month since I made that plea, I urge President Obama to act now." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
05.14.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the passage of H.R. 2187, the 21st Century Green High-Performing Public School Facilities Act of 2009. H.R. 2187 passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 275 to 155: "Today, we are thinking ‘green' about schools all across this nation," said Hastings. "It is time to ensure that our children are going to school in a safe and healthy environment. The passage of this legislation gives us the opportunity to upgrade our school buildings and boost student achievement while also creating new jobs." "Last year, during consideration of this legislation, I offered an amendment that would allow funds to be used to reduce or eliminate human exposure to mold and mildew. I am pleased to see that this addition has been included in this year's text." H.R. 2187 provides over $6 billion in federal funds to upgrade school facilities to make them more energy efficient and more reliant on renewable sources of energy. In addition to improving public schools, the bill will also reduce pollution levels and generate new jobs in clean energy. Additionally, the legislation supports state and local educational agencies to provide public students with facilities that are safe, healthy, high-performing and using current technology. Florida is estimated to receive over $295 billion in funding. "We are confronted by many challenges that will impact the lives of our children's future. When the learning environment of teachers and students is compromised by substandard conditions, our nation suffers. To ignore this significant issue would only perpetuate our problems. Investment in education, clean energy, and our workforce is critical to producing prosperity in the future." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
05.07.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement after the House of Representatives passed his amendment to the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act (H.R. 1728), which will ensure that flood and disaster insurance is included in the Office of Housing Counseling's criteria. (Please find attached a copy of the amendment) "It is time to remove any hint of the deceitful and vague lending practices that have led us to the housing crisis in the first place," said Hastings. H.R. 1728 supports financial literacy by establishing the Office of Housing Counseling. This office promotes homeownership stability by making comprehensive financial counseling accessible to all communities. "In many regions of our country, homeowners have the added cost of flood or disaster insurance, but their insurance plans are often complicated and can put them at risk if the appropriate insurance is not purchased. My amendment ensures that information about flood and disaster insurance is part of the criteria that the Office of Housing Counseling uses when advising homeowners. Since 2004, Florida has sustained over $1.7 billion in flood damage during hurricane season alone. Arming our citizens with the knowledge of disaster insurance policies will encourage financial empowerment and homeownership stability among our nation's most vulnerable populations." H.R. 1728 passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 300 to 114. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### hastings_amendment_to_h.r_1728_5.7.09
05.07.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced a resolution recognizing the importance of fostering resilience in African American youth. (Please find attached a copy of the resolution) "Young African Americans continue to encounter numerous obstacles on the path to success and it is time that we dedicate our efforts to understand and remove these barriers," said Hastings. In 2007, over one-third of African American children were living in poverty. African American youth are disproportionately exposed to many risk factors such as failing schools, neighborhood violence, and a wide range of health conditions. These risk factors coupled with continued cultural oppression limit resilience in African American youth. Resilience is a dynamic, multidimensional practice involving the interaction between individuals and their environments within the context of family, peers, school, community, and society. This resolution highlights the importance of identifying and nurturing the factors that contribute to the healthy development of African American youth, and their ability to achieve equal levels of physical and mental development enjoyed by their peers. "The health and well-being of African American youth are essential to building a stronger nation and this resolution lifts the veil of indifference that has taken place for too long." Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors of the resolution include: Representatives Sheila Jackson-Lee, Eddie Bernice Johnson, Donna Christensen, Grace F. Napolitano, and Barbara Lee. The resolution has been endorsed by the American Psychological Association, American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Bazelon Center for Mental Health Law, and Mental Health America. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### fostering_resilience_in_african_american_youth_5.7.09
05.05.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) praised the passage of H.R. 1271 to designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 2351 West Atlantic Boulevard in Pompano Beach, Florida, as the "Elijah Pat Larkins Post Office Building." Hastings introduced H.R. 1271 on March 3, 2009. (Please find attached a copy of the bill) "Pat was a respected leader, public servant, and selfless man. His devotion to the people of South Florida will undoubtedly be felt for generations to come," said Hastings. Larkins became Pompano Beach's first African American mayor in 1985, and served a record seven terms in that office. In particular, he made profound contributions in the area of housing, working to expand safe and adequate housing to all residents. Larkins also took an active role in countless public service, social, and religious organizations, including the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), Broward County Boys and Girls Club, the Juvenile Justice Intensive Halfway House, and Hopewell Missionary Baptist Church. He died on February 14, 2009 after a 16-month battle with brain cancer. "Pat possessed an incredible generosity of spirit and was a mentor to all those around him. He was recognized throughout Florida as a leader and spokesperson for minority involvement in government and business. Pat was one of those rare individuals that dedicated his life to improving the life of others and this post office will serve as a symbol of his legacy and work." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### pat_larkins_3.3.09
05.05.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) acknowledged the hard work, dedication and commitment of America's teachers on National Teacher Day. This day is sponsored by the National Education Association (NEA) with this year's theme being "Great Teachers Make Great Public Schools." "On National Teacher Day, we honor the special individuals who have dedicated their lives to helping students all across this nation receive a quality education," said Hastings. "As we celebrate our teachers, we must continue to ensure they have the necessary resources to effectively do their jobs." The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act appropriated $100 billion for education programs to prevent teacher layoffs and cutbacks, among other things. On April 1, the Department of Education announced that $44 billion of the funding would be distributed in the coming weeks. Florida is slated to receive over $2.4 billion that will provide immediate aid to students, schools and educators and also help to develop a long-term strategy to improve the quality of the education. "Educating our children is one of the most noble and important professions in America. Teachers make a significant impact each and every day on the lives of millions of children. Their contributions have undoubtedly helped to shape the future of our country. While we take this opportunity to express our gratitude to those that have inspired and enriched our lives, we should also make a concerted effort to thank and recognize them as often as possible." For more information about National Teacher Day, please visit the NEA's Web site at (http://www.nea.org). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
04.30.2009	Legislation Will Provide Relief to Local County Budgets and Defend our Nation's Criminal Justice System Today, Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar), Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), and Rush Holt (D-New Jersey) introduced the Restoring the Partnership for County Health Care Costs Act of 2009. The legislation prohibits the federal government from stripping individuals of their Medicare, Medicaid, and Supplemental Security Income (SSI) benefits before an inmate has been convicted of a crime. (Please find attached a copy of the legislation) Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (FL-23): "In almost all states, an inmate in a county jail or juvenile detention facility loses their Medicare, Medicaid, SCHIP or SSI benefits during their incarceration - even if they have not been convicted of a crime. The United States leads the world in the number of people who are incarcerated and federal law requires governmental entities to provide medical services to all inmates. High incarceration rates, chronic conditions, substance abuse treatment, mental illness, and an aging prison population have contributed to the rise in health care costs for inmates. This issue hits close to home. Florida's local economy has been devastated. Further, Florida has one of the highest levels of uninsured persons in the nation, and the majority of these people reside in South Florida. Passage of this bill will rectify this inequality by restoring the partnership between federal and local governments." Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26th): "One of the fundamental underlying beliefs in our justice system is the presumption of innocence until proven guilty. Therefore, until one convicted of a crime has in fact been proven guilty, they should be afforded all the rights and privileges of an innocent individual, including access to Medicare, Medicaid, SCHIP, and SSI. This legislation would preserve that important right." Congressman Rush Holt (NJ-12): "My home state of New Jersey, like all states, is facing a tough budget climate. This legislation would provide desperately needed help for our county officials during this difficult time and, as the name of the bill implies, restore a long defunct partnership between the federal government and the counties for medical costs." Unfortunately, persons who are receiving Medicare, Medicaid, SCHIP and SSI benefits prior to their incarceration almost always have their benefits terminated as soon as they become inmates in local jails and juvenile facilities. Currently, local governments that have been negatively impacted by the recession, widespread budget deficits, and program cuts are burdened with the expense of providing health care to all inmates - including those who have not been convicted of a crime. The cost of providing health care in prisons and jails has increased exponentially due in part to high incarceration rates, chronic conditions, substance abuse treatment, mental illness, and aging prison populations. The bipartisan Restoring the Partnership for County Health Care Costs Act of 2009 would alleviate some of the cost burden on local governments by allowing inmates who received Medicaid, Medicare, SCHIP and SSI to continue receiving benefits until they are convicted of a crime. Original co-sponsors of the legislation include: Representatives Barbara Lee, Robert Wexler, Colin Peterson, Donna Christensen, Raul Grijalva, Jim Moran, Betty McCollum, Brad Ellsworth, Kay Granger, Kendrick Meek, Chaka Fattah, and Debbie Wasserman Schultz. ### federal-local_partership_4.30.09
04.29.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) voted in support of the Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act of 2009 (H.R. 1913). This legislation expands federal law to include protections for crimes directed at individuals because of their gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, or disability. "While this legislation may not rid us of the intolerance and prejudices that continues to taint our society, it will provide an added deterrent to those for whom these feelings manifest themselves into acts of violence. They will be fully aware that, should they commit a hate crime, there will be no lenience and they will not slip through the cracks of the American legal system," said Hastings. Since 1991, the FBI has documented over 118,000 hate crimes. While current law includes violent acts based on race, color, national origin, and religion, it does not address criminal actions against gender, gender identity, sexual orientation or disability. "Hate crimes are a symbol of intolerance that plagues our country. By better equipping state and local law enforcement, we can give the resources needed to combat the spread of these inhumane crimes." State and local authorities will continue to handle most prosecutions of hate crimes, but this legislation will provide key assistance to state and local law enforcement agencies and amend federal law to facilitate the investigation and prosecution of violent, bias-motivated crimes. In addition, the bill would remove the current requirement that a hate crime can only be prosecuted if the victim is engaged in a federally-protected activity, such as voting. The bill specifically protects against physical harm and does not impinge pubic speech or writing in any way. H.R. 1913 is also known as the Matthew Shepard Act, in memory of the 21-year old University of Wyoming student who was brutally tortured and murdered in 1998 because he was gay. The legislation has the support of 31 state Attorneys General and over 300 law enforcement civil rights, education, religious, and civic organizations. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
04.29.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement commemorating Israel's 61st Independence Day: "I have always been deeply moved by the duality of Israel's independence celebration, at once both sorrowful and triumphant. "On one day Israel honors those who gave their lives defending their families, their neighbors, their communities, and their country. Israel today recognizes even those who died before the state was created as responsible for Israel's eventual existence, because for Israel the "nation" is not just a political distinction but also a feeling rooted deep in the heart. Since 1860, 22,570 men and women have died in service to the foundational belief of Israel: that in their ancient homeland the Jewish people can live in freedom. "Yesterday, all across Israel and in Jewish communities around the world, families and loved ones came together to weep and pray, to mourn the loss of so many of its sons and daughters, fathers and mothers, sisters and brothers. "But by the dawn of the next morning - this morning - Israel exchanged tears of sadness for tears of joy. I know of no other county that combines such deep sadness with such unrelenting delight. "For 61 years now Israel has stood as a beacon of democracy and hope for millions of people around the world, as a society where determination and passion, and an emphasis on social progress and education, can build and sustain a vibrant and productive nation. "I have been to Israel 13 times, most recently this past December, and every time I go I encounter ordinary citizens and government officials alike who are genuinely dedicated to living up to the ideals declared on Israel's Independence Day in 1948." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
04.28.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) sent the following letter to Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki. The letter expresses grave concern about the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs' (VA) conduct regarding procedures to set up and reprocess medical equipment, in particular endoscopy equipment. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter) The Honorable Eric Shinseki Secretary U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Avenue NW Washington, DC 20420 Dear Secretary Shinseki: I write to express my grave concern about the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) conduct regarding procedures to set up and reprocess medical equipment, in particular endoscopy equipment. As you know, since December 2008, VA clinics in Florida, Tennessee, and Georgia have identified problems related to the set up and reprocessing of their endoscopy equipment. Endoscopes, auxiliary water tubing, and other instruments were improperly set up and irregularly reprocessed. I am truly disconcerted by the failure of the VA to properly comply with the manufacturer's instructions, putting patients at these facilities at risk of cross contamination. Patients who were potentially treated by the affected equipment may have been in contact with or contracted one or more viral diseases, including Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV), Hepatitis B virus (HBV) and Hepatitis C virus (HCV). This represents a risk pool of almost eleven thousand individuals. Although the VA has responded in a timely manner to the discovery of these problems by notifying patients and providing them with adequate testing, it is quite troubling that it took the VA up to 6 years to identify and disclose the issue. Patients who undertook endoscopies as early as April 2003 at the Murfreesboro GI Clinic in Tennessee and May 2004 at the Miami GI Clinic in Florida only learned a few weeks ago that they may have contracted a viral disease. This is unacceptable. Since patients were notified and tested, thirty individuals have been diagnosed with either HIV, HBV or HCV. While these results were not linked definitely to the misuse of endoscopy equipment, the VA must take adequate action to address this potential eventuality. Furthermore, I am concerned that because of these incidents patients will be reluctant to seek out necessary preventative health care measures. No one should be frightened to get tested because of the potential risk of contracting another disease through infected equipment. Routine screening and testing for diseases saves lives, prevents costly and invasive procedures and plays an essential role in preventative health care. Endoscopies are used to help diagnose a variety of illnesses and conditions from ulcers to colon and rectal cancer. Colon cancer is the fourth most prevalent cancer in men and women. These potentially life-saving and life-improving measures will not be effective unless veterans can access services knowing that their health and well-being will not be jeopardized because of a failure to follow basic sanitary and procedural standards. I urge the VA to create and implement a comprehensive and efficient set of procedures for the proper set up, use, reprocessing and maintenance of all reusable endoscopy equipment in all VA medical facilities throughout the United States. The safety of patients must remain the number one concern when establishing these protocols. It is necessary to develop stronger efforts to track and improve accountability within all medical facilities. We also request that every health care professional be retrained on standard operating procedures. Additionally, it is critical that the VA continue its efforts to reach out to patients at risk, provide them with testing and care, and coordinate with other facilities when patients are out of state. Our government has a moral responsibility to provide our veterans with the very best quality of health care. These brave men and women have made the ultimate sacrifice for our country. We must ensure that they are recognized, honored, and provided with the services they rightly deserve. Our veterans deserve no less. Thank you in advance for your action on this important issue. In light of the extreme circumstances surrounding this matter, I urge your immediate attention to address the issue. I look forward to continuing to work closely with you in providing the best possible care for America's veterans. With warm regards, I remain, Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### va_letter_to_secretary_shinseki_4.28.09
04.23.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced the National Commission on Employment and Economic Security Act of 2009. The legislation will establish a national commission to study employment and economic insecurity in our country and its affect on Americans' mental health. (Please find attached a copy of the legislation) "Virtually all Americans have felt the sting of this economic depression, which has taken a toll on workers and their families' mental health," said Hastings. "Over the past year, unemployment rates have increased in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. The scope of the economic downturn is so large that its impact is felt virtually everywhere along the economic spectrum." Last month, the national unemployment rate reached 8.5 percent, the highest it has been since the 1983 recession. Over the past year, unemployment rates have increased in all 50 states, with Florida reaching almost 10 percent. In addition, 80% of Americans say the economy is a significant cause of stress, an increase from 66% only one year ago. Even more troubling is that calls to the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline have increased by more than 20% from January 2008 to January 2009. "The threat of unemployment, loss of health insurance, and home foreclosure has led to stress, anxiety, depression, and increased violence in our society. The mental health of American workers is instrumental in charting a path toward economic recovery. Establishing a commission to study employment and economic insecurity will give us the necessary tools to better respond to this crisis. We cannot neglect the harmful impact it has had on workers and their families. It is time we take action." The Commission will examine issues of economic and psychological insecurity within our workforce that have been caused by employment displacement. Further, it will recommend to Congress and the President measures to reduce said economic and psychological effects. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### hastings_bill_national_commission_on_employment_and_economic_security_4-09
04.22.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) commemorated the 39th anniversary of the birth of the modern environmental movement, better known as Earth Day. "Celebrating Earth Day allows the world to focus greater attention and appreciation on our planet and environment. "We cannot continue to take our planet for granted. The recent decision by the Environmental Protection Agency to declare greenhouse gases a danger to human health only underscores our need to take action. As a result of the earth's warming, Florida faces rising sea levels and flooding, which could affect drinking water and cause great harm to the state's agriculture industry among other things. "With the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, Congress has taken the first step towards building a cleaner earth by making substantial investments in new energy that will reduce our dependence on foreign oil and generate new jobs. It is time to take the next step to developing a renewable energy platform that promotes economic recovery and cuts carbon pollution." For more information about Earth Day, please visit the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) Web site at (www.epa.gov/earthday/). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
04.21.2009	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) has been awarded the Florida Panther Protection Award from the Conservancy of Southwest Florida for his efforts to protect the Florida panther from extinction. The Florida panther is one of the most endangered species in the world as only 80-100 of them survive today. "I am honored to receive this award from the Conservancy of Southwest Florida. I believe that the Florida panther must have the necessary habitat for sustainability before they become extinct," said Hastings. On April 7, Hastings sent a letter to President Obama urging the establishment of a critical habitat designation for the endangered Florida panther. The letter was signed by Representatives Corrine Brown (D-FL), Robert Wexler (D-FL), Alan Grayson (D-FL), and Ron Klein (D-FL). (Please find attached a copy of the letter) "Designation of a critical habitat would not only preserve and encourage the growth of the current population of panthers, but it would also help protect other valuable environmental resources that are vital to the state of Florida." The Florida panther was listed as an endangered species 42 years ago, and even though the Endangered Species Act requires the designation of critical habitat for endangered species, critical habitat has never been established for the Florida panther. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### letter_to_president_obama_florida_panther_4.7.09
04.21.2009	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement commemorating Yom HaShoah, Holocaust Remembrance Day: "Today, we remember the millions of souls who died at the hands of the Nazis and, specifically, the approximately six million Jews who perished in the Holocaust. We remember the approximately one and half million children who were brutally murdered by the Nazis and their collaborators. In the United States Congress and all over the world, we embrace this solemn day of remembrance. It is Yom HaZikaron laShoah ve-laGvura, ‘Remembrance Day for the Holocaust and Heroism,' known commonly in Israel and abroad as Yom HaShoah or Holocaust Remembrance Day. "I have always aspired to stand by the saying ‘Never be a bystander.' For that reason, I find it appropriate to recall the story which took place on the 27th of the Hebrew month Nisan, which is the day in 1951 the Israeli parliament, the Knesset, designated as Yom HaShoah. On this day in 1943, a small group of less than one thousand Jewish rebels in Poland's Warsaw Ghetto were in the midst of fighting back against the elite Waffen-SS soldiers who had been tasked with ‘liquidating' the Ghetto. With only a few firearms, a tiny supply of ammunition, and a small number of makeshift explosives, it took the Nazis nearly a month to defeat the small band of Jewish fighters. Better known as ‘the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising,' this was the most significant act of Jewish resistance during the Holocaust. They never lost hope and, although the story ultimately ended tragically, it remains today an inspiration to us all of the unshakable will of human beings to live in freedom. "I quote my friend, the fifth Prime Minister of Israel, Yitzhak Rabin, when he spoke at the Central Memorial Assembly in Warsaw on the 50th Anniversary of the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising in 1993: ‘There were those who believed that, with the fall of the Nazis, racism would be abolished from the earth. They were mistaken. Fifty years after the fall of Hitler, his successors have arisen in various corners of the world.' "We must continue to fight hatred and intolerance wherever it exists, for human freedom depends on the presence of justice, the justice that was denied to so many during the dark days of World War II. To ignore that lesson is unforgivable. "Today in the Darfur region of Sudan, genocide is taking place. This conflict has engulfed millions of people and cost hundreds of thousands of lives. Innocent people are being murdered, starved, and driven from their homes simply because of the color of their skin. "As we commemorate Yom HaShoah, it is my hope that all people will banish the sort of dark hatred that gave rise to the Holocaust and, more recently, to the events in Darfur. May our consciences prevent us always from being bystanders in times and places where that sort of evil is present. Today, we should all remember the past and take a stand for our future." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chair of the Democratic Israel Working Group. ###
04.17.2009	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) will deliver the weekly Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) "Message to America" radio address this Friday, April 17, 2009. Hastings will urge President Obama to grant Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Haitian nationals currently residing in the United States. The CBC "Message to America" is distributed nationwide to the American Urban Radio Network's (AURN) affiliate stations and will broadcast at 5:10 PM (EST) on April 17 via closed circuit feed. It will air on April 20 during the Bev Smith Show between 7-8 PM. share: f t
04.09.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) applauded the efforts of MTV's STD testing campaign GYT: "Get Yourself Tested." This is a month-long initiative to encourage every sexually-active person under the age of 25 to get tested for STDs, including HIV. Teaming up with the Kaiser Family Foundation, Planned Parenthood Federation of America, and many relevant and admired figures in pop culture, MTV's campaign is designed to spread virally through today's social media landscape and engage youth on sexual health matters in a new way. "MTV's GYT campaign sends our young people an important message in a language they can understand and relate to. STDs and HIV/AIDS are real, and can happen to anyone. Stigmas surrounding sex, STDs, and STD testing, too often keep young people from talking openly about sexual health and getting tested. However, knowing your status is half the battle in protecting yourself from infection or receiving proper treatment, and getting yourself tested is the only way to know it for sure," said Hastings. "I strongly support MTV's GYT campaign and other initiatives that provide our youth with factual information on sexual health, which will empower them to make responsible decisions about their lives. I encourage my colleagues in Congress to join me in supporting comprehensive HIV/AIDS and STD education, prevention, and treatment programs at the Federal, state, and local levels." Since going live on April 1, MTV reports that its GYT videos have been streamed more than 250,000 times by visitors to its Web site www.GYTNOW.org. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
04.08.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) commemorated the 19 year anniversary of Ryan Wayne White, who died from complications of HIV/AIDS in Indianapolis, Indiana on April 8, 1990, at the age of 18. White had contracted HIV from a contaminated blood treatment that he used to manage his hemophilia and was diagnosed in 1984. He became a national symbol for AIDS activism when he was expelled from school because of his status. Ryan changed the face of HIV/AIDS by making four simple statements, "My name is Ryan White. I am 16 years old. I have hemophilia, and I have AIDS." In an era when HIV/AIDS was thought to result from promiscuous sex and intravenous drug use, White's story showed that no one was immune to the disease. "Nearly 20 years after Ryan's death, education about HIV/AIDS and de-stigmatizing the disease remain essential components in the fight against the epidemic. Young people living with the disease have historically been pioneers in educating our nation about HIV/AIDS and laying the framework to improve our future response to the disease," said Hastings. "On March 31, I introduced H. Res. 308, a resolution commemorating the life and legacy of Pedro Zamora, another activist who died from AIDS during the 1990's. He was one of the first openly gay men living with HIV/AIDS to be on national television. Pedro, a cast member of MTV's "The Real World: San Francisco" was 17 when he learned that he contracted HIV/AIDS and died in 1994 at the age of 22. Like Ryan, Pedro dedicated the remainder of his life to educating people about preventing, living and responding to HIV/AIDS. "The lives of these young men may have been short, but they have undoubtedly left a rich and long legacy for future generations to come. Both Pedro and Ryan remind us to be diligent in our efforts to battle HIV/AIDS, and the disease of intolerance in this country." White's story gained national attention amidst a growing wave of AIDS coverage in the media. He began to discuss his experiences and challenges and participated in public efforts that were designed to help children with AIDS. His courage, wit and spirit gained support from President Reagan, talk show hosts, and various other celebrities. However, Ryan's health continued to deteriorate and in 1990, he died a few months shy of his graduation from High School. In the same year, Congress enacted the Ryan White Care Act, which is the single largest federal program for people with HIV/AIDS in the United States. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ###
04.07.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) sent the following letter to President Obama, urging the establishment of a critical habitat designation for the endangered Florida panther. The Florida panther is one of the most endangered species in the world as only 80-100 of them survive today. The letter was signed by Representatives Corrine Brown (D-FL), Robert Wexler (D-FL), Alan Grayson (D-FL), and Ron Klein (D-FL). (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter) April 7, 2009 The Honorable Barack H. Obama President of the United States The White House Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Obama: The Florida panther is one of the most endangered species in the world as only 80-100 of them survive today. As you know, the two greatest threats to the Florida panther are the loss of habitat and automobile-related deaths, both of which are caused by increased development in environmentally sensitive areas. The best available science suggests that current lands in conservation do not provide enough suitable habitat area to support even the limited number of existing panthers. Further, in just the first month of 2009, three panthers were killed by cars. As members of the Florida delegation, we are writing to request your support in establishing a critical habitat designation for the endangered Florida panther. The Florida panther was listed as an endangered species 42 years ago, but critical habitat has never been established, even though the Endangered Species Act includes a requirement for the designation of critical habitat for endangered species. In other words, the Florida panther is protected by the federal Endangered Species Act, unfortunately its home is not. It is of great importance to designate a critical habitat not only because it would preserve and encourage the growth of the current population of Florida panthers, but also because it would help to protect other valuable environmental resources, such as wetlands, aquifer-recharge areas, drinking water supplies and the habitat of other endangered species. Moreover, a designation of critical habitat does not mean that no further development is allowed in an area, it simply requires additional review when projects requiring federal permits would impact habitats considered essential to preventing the Florida panther from going extinct. We urge you to ensure the continued existence of the Florida panther and the preservation of Southwest Florida's natural resources and unique character by supporting the designation of critical habitat for the endangered Florida panther. Thank you for your time and consideration. The decision to take action now will provide a historic opportunity for protecting the Earth's most endangered "umbrella species" - the Florida panther. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Corrine Brown Robert Wexler Alan Grayson Ron Klein Cc: The Honorable Ken Salazar, Secretary of Interior Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ### letter_to_president_obama_florida_panther_4.7.09
03.31.2009	Urges Greater Public Awareness of HIV/AIDS Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced a resolution commemorating the life and legacy of Pedro Zamora. Zamora, a Cuban American gay man was living in Miami, FL when he became infected with HIV at the age of 17. He was an AIDS activist for several years before he sent a letter to MTV's The Real World. Zamora was cast for "The Real World: San Francisco" in 1994 and died of AIDS the day after the season ended. (Please find attached a copy of the resolution) share: f t "Pedro put a face on this deadly disease that far too often has been hidden in the shadows. The unfortunate fact remains that HIV/AIDS has become one of the most serious global health concerns in modern history and has spread to every continent, infecting and affecting people across all lines of race, class, religion, and sexual orientation," said Hastings. "Sadly, a quarter of HIV/AIDS-infected persons are unaware of their status and less than 30% of HIV-infected persons receive anti-retroviral treatment. Latino's and blacks are still disproportionately contracting and dying from AIDS. My home state of Florida has consistently ranked third in the nation in the number of cases of HIV/AIDS. And, the majority of infected persons reside in South Florida, which also has the highest concentration of uninsured people in the state. "During his testimony before Congress in 1994, 22 year-old Zamora said, "What we need is the collective will to care about young people and about people with different backgrounds and make sure that one day people grow up in a world without AIDS." Pedro's words are timeless and challenge us to be diligent in our efforts to stop HIV/AIDS, and the disease of intolerance in this country. I commend MTV, director Nick Oceano, and screenplay writer Dustin Lance Black for bringing the face of Pedro into homes all across this nation in hopes of bringing greater public awareness to this deadly disease." Tonight, MTV Networks, Planned Parenthood Federation of America and Bunim/Murray Productions will hold an advance screening of Pedro: A Celebration of the Courageous Life of Pedro Zamora. A reception will be held on the 1st Floor of Madison Hall in the Madison Building of the Library of Congress starting at 6:00 PM. The film will be screened in the Pickford Theater on the 3rd floor at 7:15 PM. Hastings will give opening remarks on his resolution prior to the screening between 6:45-7:15 PM. Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors of the resolution include, Representatives Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Barney Frank (D-MA), Donna Christensen (D-VI), John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Gregory Meeks (D-NY), Jared Polis (D-CO), Diane Watson (D-CA), Lois Capps (D-CA), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Corrine Brown (D-FL) and Barbara Lee (D-CA). Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. #### pedro_zamora_resolution_3.31.09
03.27.2009	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement recognizing the importance of the World Wildlife Fund's (WFF) Earth Hour Movement, which will take place on March 28, 2009 at 8:30 PM. "The rapid deterioration of our earth's climate threatens all people. Earth Hour 2009 is an opportunity for individuals across the globe to join together in responding to this escalating crisis," said Hastings. Earth Hour was first celebrated two years ago in Sidney, Australia in partnership with the WWF. In March 2008, Earth Hour expanded globally with more than 50 million people in over 400 cities participating, including an estimated 36 million Americans. This year Earth Hour has the support of nearly 1,000 cities around the world and calls for people to turn off their lights for one hour. For more information on Earth Hour, please visit (www.earthhour.org). "Our participation in Earth Hour sends the message that Americans are invested in the future of our planet and care about climate change. With every flick of a light-switch, a vote is cast for meaningful action. I encourage everyone to take part in this historic event by turning off their lights and taking a stand for our environment on March 28." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ####
03.26.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced a resolution to recognize the crucial role of assistance dogs in helping wounded veterans' live more independent lives, and expresses gratitude and support to the Tower of Hope organization for its considerable contribution to this cause. (Please find attached a copy of the resolution) "Thousands of our soldiers have been seriously wounded while defending the freedom of this great nation. When they return home, we must not forget that these brave men and women are still in need of assistance to continue their recovery," said Hastings. The Tower of Hope is dedicated to raising funds for the training of assistance dogs, educating people about their benefits and awarding grants to veterans that will allow them to have a service dog at no cost to them. For more information about the Tower of Hope, please visit: (www.thetowerofhope.org). Hastings' resolution honors America's veterans and their service dogs, calls for the promotion of assistance animals and encourages public support. Additionally, it lauds the outstanding work of the Tower of Hope organization and supports the goals and ideals of creating a Tower of Hope Day. "Without the selfless efforts of organizations such as the Tower of Hope, our wounded veterans would not have the opportunity to live a more comfortable and independent life. My hat goes off to the Tower of Hope as well as to the other organizations all across America that have dedicated themselves to the development of programs that inspire hope and strengthen our tradition of compassion to those who need it most," said Hastings. Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors of the resolution include: Representatives Henry Brown, Robert Wexler, Carolyn Kilpatrick, Corrine Brown, Lynn Woosley, John Hall, Carolyn Maloney, Larry Kissell, and Ciro Rodriguez. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. #### tower_of_hope_resolution
03.19.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced a resolution calling for long-term care to be made a part of our nation's comprehensive health care reform agenda. (Please find attached a copy of the resolution) "We are tasked with solving one of the most serious financial and health care crises of our era, Congress must implement a long-term plan to address the challenges we face," said Hastings. Long-term care encompasses a broad range of health and social services that are used by people who cannot care for themselves because of a physical, cognitive, or mental disability. Over 9.4 million adults receive long-term care in America, and roughly 80 percent receive long-term care in their home and surrounding community. This number is expected to rise with a growing elderly population, longer life spans among the chronically ill, and higher incidences of acquired disabilities from unmanaged conditions such as HIV/AIDS, diabetes, obesity, and heart disease. Hastings' resolution will improve the working conditions and training for home health aides, expand long-term care and health services, and promote preventative health measures to decrease the dependence on long-term care in the future. "The lack of streamlined standards and dominant payment methods for long-term care has left our health care system in disarray, depriving countless people of much needed services and placing tremendous financial and emotional burden on families and caregivers. It is clear to me that this issue has been overlooked for too long. We must further improve our nation's health care system - the American people deserve nothing less." Joining Hastings as original cosponsors of the resolution include: Representatives Donna Christensen, Barbara Lee, Robert Wexler, Gregory Meeks, Corrine Brown, John Conyers, Joe Courtney, Kathy Castor, Raúl Grijalva, Marcy Kaptur, James McGovern, Peter Welch and Barney Frank. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. #### long-term_health_resolution_3.19.09l
03.17.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) gave the keynote address on the Iraqi refugee crisis at a conference presented by the International Human Rights Law Clinic and the Center for Human Rights & Humanitarian Law at American University's Washington College of Law. Hastings prepared remarks are as follows: "I want to thank the International Human Rights Law Clinic and the Center for Human Rights & Humanitarian Law for holding this extremely important conference to address the Iraqi refugee crisis. "I have been actively engaged on this issue for quite some time now and I remain troubled that the United States is not doing enough to address this humanitarian crisis. Now I am not saying that the United States has not done a thing, but we certainly should be doing more than we currently are doing. It is imperative that our efforts be expanded. "This crisis is the largest displacement of individuals in the Middle East since 1948. It is a crisis that demands our immediate attention and it is a crisis that we CANNOT ignore. "As many of you know, there are more than 4.7 million Iraqis who are currently displaced within their own country and in neighboring states such as Jordan, Syria, Turkey, Egypt and Lebanon. Sadly, however, their situation has not improved. And yet, the principle reason I believe that this crisis has not received the attention it should is because we don't see Iraqis living in ‘refugee camps.' Instead they are a mobile population scattered throughout cities such as Amman, Damascus, Cairo and Beirut. This fact alone has made this humanitarian crisis virtually ‘invisible' to the international community. However, for those Iraqis who remain stranded, jobless and deprived of essential services with conditions worsening by the day, this deepening crisis only threatens to further destabilize the entire region. "In January, I reintroduced H.R. 578, the Iraqi Refugee and Internally Displaced Persons Humanitarian Assistance, Resettlement, and Security Act of 2009. My legislation addresses this crisis and the potential security break-down resulting from the mass influx of Iraq refugees into neighboring countries and the growing internally displaced population in Iraq, and also facilitates the resettlement of Iraqis at risk. "The companion legislation had been introduced by Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton in the 110th Congress. I currently have over 25 cosponsors and would urge my colleagues both Democrat and Republican to support this legislation. It is time that Congress implements this much needed legislation and in doing so help secure humanitarian aid for these victims of conflict. "Last week, I had the opportunity to meet with the Ambassador of Iraq. We had a very informative discussion about this humanitarian crisis and what it will mean for the future of Iraq. During our meeting, I conveyed my hope that the Iraqi government would take greater responsibility to help refugees and internally displaced persons (IDPs). "Furthermore, I expressed deep concern about the many Iraqi children who have been forgotten and who are not attending school within Iraq and in host countries in the region. Some of these children have not been in school for three or four years. When children are in settings where there is no hope, they are easy pickings to be targeted by those who don't have their best interests in mind. The world needs to pay close attention to this; we need to make certain that these children are adequately taken care of, because extremist groups will stop at nothing to prey on this vulnerable population, which will have long-term ramifications for Iraq, the region and the rest of the world. "If not handled properly, this crisis could become a ticking time bomb that will have far greater ramifications than anyone could ever imagine. Iraqis are suffering and many of their lives are at risk. We must seize this opportunity and implement a comprehensive plan that addresses the continued suffering of the refugees and IDPs. "The politics of the war must be put aside by Congress and a ‘humanitarian surge' must be implemented. This means the provision of substantially increased bi-lateral aid, as appropriate under U.S. law, to countries hosting Iraqi refugees and increased funding to international organizations and NGOs working in the region. A U.S. contribution of at least fifty percent of the amount requested for all UN appeals for funding to assist Iraqi refugees, and IDPs, would show U.S. leadership in addressing this crisis and hopefully encourage increased contributions by other countries as well. The process for resettling Iraqi refugees to the United States must also be expedited. This is particularly critical for those Iraqis whose lives have been threatened because of their work for the United States. "To that end, I would just like to commend groups such as UNHCR, Refugees International, Catholic Relief Services, The List Project and the countless other organizations who have dedicated themselves to improving the lives and well-being of Iraqis refugees and IDPs. "The United States should also show leadership in encouraging the international community to focus on this humanitarian crisis, recognize it for the potential security threat it poses, and take steps to alleviate the suffering of Iraqi refugees. "If a picture is really worth a thousand words, then all one must do is look into the face of an Iraqi refugee who has had a family member murdered, kidnapped, or tortured, and their own life threatened, to know that the United States must respond - security in the region and the future of the Middle East depend upon it." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ####
03.12.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced a resolution commending the Australian government for apologizing for its mistreatment of Indigenous Australians and Torres Islanders, and for committing to fighting the disparities that continue to impact Indigenous communities. (Please find attached a copy of the resolution) "On average, Indigenous Australians die 17 years earlier than white Australians, and have higher instances of infant mortality, unemployment and homelessness. These figures are a jarring reminder that Australia's prosperity has yet to fully reach the people who first inhabited the land. The value of Australia's apology is undoubtedly determined by the Australian government's ability to aggressively address the systemic inequalities that exclude most Indigenous people from the standard of living that is held by the vast majority of non-Indigenous Australians," said Hastings. On February 13, 2008, millions of Australians witnessed Prime Minister Kevin Rudd's formal apology - on behalf of the Australian Government and its Parliament - to the Indigenous and Torres Island community. The long awaited apology was accompanied with a promise from the Council of Australian Governments (COAG) to donate $4.6 billion to fund initiatives to improve life expectancy, health, education and employment in Indigenous communities. Nearly a year later, Prime Minister Rudd addressed the nation and reported on the status of the initiatives that were implemented and reiterated the importance of change and reconciliation. Joining Hastings as original cosponsors of the resolution include: Representatives John Lewis, Donald Payne, Eni Faleomavaega, Gregory Meeks, Barbara Lee, Wm. Lacy Clay, Kendrick Meek, G.K. Butterfield, Al Green, and Marcia Fudge. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. #### hastings_australia_resolution_3.12.09
03.12.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced a resolution commending the International Criminal Court (ICC) for issuing an arrest warrant for Sudanese President Omar Hassan Ahmad al-Bashir for war crimes and crimes against humanity, and restating the United States' commitment to supporting a multifaceted approach to facilitating justice, peace and stability in the Darfur region. (Please find attached a copy of the resolution) "No leader who commits such horrific crimes should be allowed to remain free," said Hastings. The resolution commends the ICC for its efforts, as well as condemns President al-Bashir's actions. The resolution also expresses the sense of Congress that a comprehensive approach is needed to successfully end the genocide and the repression of human rights in Darfur, including positive social, economic, and political developments in the region. Finally, the resolution calls on the United States to engage in vigorous diplomacy, including requesting President Obama to immediately appoint a high-level envoy for the region. "President al-Bashir has directed the Sudanese government's efforts to use the very worst kinds of crimes to carry out an active program of oppression. While the roots of this conflict run deep, combining a complex mix of racial, tribal, religious, political, geographic, and environmental matters, surely there can be no excuse to engage in the kind of violence that President al-Bashir has inflicted on the people of Darfur. It is well past time to bring him to justice." Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors of the resolution include: Representatives Frank Pallone, Jr., Sheila Jackson-Lee, John Olver, Gwen Moore, Frank Wolf, Michael Honda, Barbara Lee, James Moran, Michael McCaul, Tom Perriello, and Michael Capuano. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. #### hastings_darfur_resolution_3.12.09
03.10.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) and several members of South Florida's congressional delegation met with Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano to discuss issues regarding Haitian immigrants. At the meeting, Hastings hand-delivered a letter to Secretary Napolitano requesting Temporary Protected Status (TPS) be granted for Haitian nationals currently residing in the United States. (Please find below and attached a copy of the letter) The letter was authored by Hastings and signed by sixteen bipartisan Members of Congress to include, Representatives Kendrick B. Meek, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Robert Wexler, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Maxine Waters, Barney Frank, Corrine Brown, Donna Edwards, Michael E. McMahon, Edolphus Towns, William D. Delahunt, Bob Filner, Joseph Crowley, Raul M. Grijalva, Jose E. Serrano, and Barbara Lee. Hastings is a leader in the fight to end double-standard immigration practices as they pertain to Haitian migrants. He is the author of H.R. 144, the Haitian Protection Act, legislation which would designate Haitian nationals in the United States as eligible for TPS. Hastings has been calling for the extension of TPS to Haitian nationals for years and was continuously engaged in correspondence with the Bush Administration on this matter. March 10, 2009 The Honorable Janet Napolitano Secretary of Homeland Security U.S. Department of Homeland Security Washington, D.C. 20528 Dear Secretary Napolitano, We would like to first congratulate you on your recent confirmation as Secretary of Homeland Security. We also write to express our outrage over the continuing deportations of Haitians in the United States and urge you to immediately grant Haitian immigrants in the United States Temporary Protected Status (TPS). This past summer, only months after deadly food riots, Haiti was hit by four back-to-back hurricanes and tropical storms. Thousands lost their homes, many were left starving and isolated from humanitarian assistance, nearly 800 lives were taken, and as of last month, over 300 people remain missing. Though recovery efforts have slowly commenced, much of Haiti remains in a state of destruction. Up to 40,000 people are in shelters, and severe malnutrition concerns have arisen throughout rural areas. The Bush administration recognized these conditions and commendably chose to halt deportation flights to Haiti. However, this past December, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) unexpectedly chose to resume deportations. Even worse, deportations are still occurring at alarming rates and under disturbing conditions. As you know, TPS may be granted when any of the following conditions are met: there is ongoing armed conflict posing a serious threat to personal safety; it is requested by a foreign state that temporarily cannot handle the return of nationals due to environmental disaster; or when extraordinary and temporary conditions in a foreign state exist which prevent aliens from returning. Now, more than ever, Haiti continues to meet all of the requirements for TPS. In December, your predecessor determined that Haiti did not meet the standards for TPS. Given the overwhelming challenges with which Haiti has been forced to contend over the past year, we urge you to reverse this decision and grant Haitians in the United States TPS, or at the very least, resume the halt on deportations pending further policy review. As Haiti's humanitarian crisis becomes increasingly dire and the nation's struggle for economic stability and sustainable development is further delayed, it is only a matter of time before a humanitarian crisis becomes a political one threatening the stability of Haiti and our entire region. TPS is the least expensive, most immediate form of humanitarian assistance we can provide, as it allows the Haitian government to invest all of its limited resources in the rebuilding and redevelopment of its struggling economy. Just 600 miles from our shores, political and economic instability in Haiti impacts our own economy and immigration levels, thereby making it our responsibility to work to ensure Haiti's long-term stability. The people of Haiti have long suffered through natural destruction, persistent poverty, and repressive regimes. We have a moral obligation to help the people of Haiti sustain and rebuild their country by granting Haitian nationals already residing in the United States TPS. In keeping with President Obama's promise to renew America's global leadership, we respectfully ask that you address this extremely critical issue immediately. We thank you for your consideration and look forward to working with you on this and other matters of mutual concern. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Kendrick B. Meek Debbie Wasserman Schultz Robert Wexler Ileana Ros-Lehtinen Maxine Waters Barney Frank Corrine Brown Donna Edwards Michael E. McMahon Edolphus Towns William D. Delahunt Bob Filner Joseph Crowley Raul M. Grijalva Jose E. Serrano Barbara Lee Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. #### tps_napolitano_letter
03.06.2009	Tonight, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the passage of the Helping Families Save Their Homes Act (H.R. 1106), which passed by a vote of 234 to 191: "This legislation not only addresses our current housing market crisis, it also precisely targets relief to those who need it most," said Hastings. The Helping Families Save Their Homes Act gives bankruptcy judges the ability to modify existing mortgages for families who file for Chapter 13 bankruptcy as an incentive to spur lenders into voluntarily modifying loans. It gives lenders the confidence to modify loans by protecting them from some lawsuits. And it spurs mortgage refinancing by fixing the Federal Housing Administration's Hope for Homeowners Program, reducing fees and offering new incentives for lenders. "It will rebuild this economy from the bottom up, for our nation simply cannot recover if we here in Congress turn our backs on the millions of the Americans struggling to care for their families and stay in their homes. "In January of this year alone in St. Lucie County there were over 1,372 home foreclosures - the second highest foreclosure rate in state of Florida, up 44 percent from the previous year. The Helping Families Save Their Homes Act is not a giveaway and it is certainly not welfare. It is a comprehensive bill that will help those who have played by the rules. We must lay the foundation to get us out of this crisis and we must rebuild this country. Americans all across this nation deserve to continue to live in their homes and not be forced to the streets." Chapter 13 bankruptcy filing is a last resort for many families who are unable to make ends meet in the midst of this recession. It is a strict and intrusive process that forces a family to open their finances up to the scrutiny and management of the courts for up to five years. This legislation is critical to the overall recovery of our economy. Home prices dropped 18 percent in the last quarter of 2008. More than 14 million homeowners owe more on their mortgage than their home is worth, and they cannot refinance. Many are facing foreclosure through no fault of their own. This is an important step in helping America recover. Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ####
03.03.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement at an afternoon reception hosted by the Jewish Council of Public Affairs on Capitol Hill: "Thank you so very much for inviting me here today. I am pleased to attend what has been a productive annual conference for the Jewish Council for Public Affairs. I certainly appreciate all of the Jewish community's support for my efforts in Congress, and I am pleased to support your many issues as well. "I especially want to applaud the JCPA's resolutions this past week on both Darfur and on Muslim-Jewish relations. "As you know, I have been deeply troubled by the crisis in Darfur these many years, and am absolutely committed to seeing an end to the horrors occurring there. I have spoken out on this issue many times, often in the context of Holocaust memorial events. It is genocide and it ought to be treated as such. We need to leverage all of our humanitarian, political, and economic resources to end this conflict. "I have always been committed to the idea that through mutual respect and tolerance, we can work out what differences exist and pursue a clearer path to peace and understanding. I am so pleased that the JCPA encourages both Jewish and Muslim communities to embrace their common commitments to civil liberties and work together towards eradicating racism and discrimination. "On that note, I firmly believe that racism, prejudice, and discrimination of any form should always be called out whenever and wherever it occurs. That is why I have been particularly outspoken these past few weeks on global anti-Semitism. "I recently attended an international conference in London on anti-Semitism, where I spoke about the many miles still left to go, and the obligation of all countries and all governments worldwide to extend every effort to ensure a zero-tolerance policy on all acts of anti-Semitism. "Last month, I introduced a resolution here in Congress that condemns the systematic use of intimidation and violence against Jewish communities in South America. I called upon the governments of Venezuela, Argentina, and Bolivia to address the recent rise in anti-Semitism acts in their respective countries. "Finally, I recently traveled to Israel, where I met with Prime Minister Olmert and other senior government officials to discuss the variety of difficult challenges facing Israel and its citizens today. It is critical that the United States reinvigorate diplomacy in the region. I am hopeful that Secretary Clinton's efforts this week will be just the first stage of this process. Israel deserves to be secure and prosperous, and to that end I assure you that I remain absolutely committed to finding sustainable, equitable, and peaceful solutions for Israel and its neighbors." Congressman Alcee L. Hastings is Vice Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, a senior member of the House Rules Committee, and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission. ####
03.03.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made a statement at a luncheon hosted by the Florida Department of the American Legion. share: f t Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement at a luncheon hosted by the Florida Department of the American Legion: "I strongly believe that America's veterans must be at the forefront of our legislative agenda here in Congress. The brave men and women who have made the ultimate sacrifice for our country must be recognized, honored, and provided with the services they rightly deserve. "Since coming to Congress, I have tirelessly worked on behalf of America's veterans. Our veterans must be given adequate health care benefits and exceptional medical treatment. Congress must do more to help secure the necessary funding to help our veterans! We must make certain that such funding directly benefits our deserving veterans through state-of-the-art medical facilities. We must also ensure that the Veteran's Administration (VA) is held accountable for the lack of service and unreasonable waiting time that exist for thousands of veterans. "Veterans must also be able to access and fund their education, be afforded decent living conditions and to support their families. With the extended occupation of Iraq and Afghanistan, the requirement for increased veterans' services will only be magnified in the future. That is why I remain dedicated to the millions of American men and women who have served our country so bravely. "I have always been and always will be one of Congress' most vocal champions for America's veterans. Recently, I have co-sponsored several pieces of legislation to honor our veterans and help create better living conditions. "I co-sponsored the Belated Thank You to the Merchant Mariners of WWII (H.R. 23) and the Woman Veterans Health Care Improvement Act of 2009 (H.R. 4107). I am also a proud co-sponsor of H.R 147, to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow taxpayers to designate a portion of their income tax payment to provide assistance to homeless veterans. "I look forward to working with all of you to build better lives for our veterans and their families. I will continue to ensure that our veterans are taken good care of. These men and women deserve nothing less!" ####
03.03.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced a bill designating a post office in Pompano Beach, FL as the "Elijah Pat Larkins Post Office Building." This post office will be named in honor of the life and achievements of Pompano Beach's first African American mayor, Elijah "Pat" Larkins, who died on February 14, 2009, after losing a 16-month battle with brain cancer. Throughout his over 25 years of public service, Pat Larkins made significant contributions to the civil rights movement and to the lives of the many Floridians he served. Please find attached a copy of the legislation. "I am honored to celebrate the life and achievements of my dear friend Pat Larkins. My thoughts and prayers are with his family at this most difficult time. I hope that Pat's family takes comfort in knowing that, in his over 66 years on this earth, he had a profound impact on those around him, making significant contributions to the lives of so many Floridians as an entrepreneur, commissioner, mayor of Pompano Beach, and a leader in his community. "Pat was a man of uncompromising integrity. He possessed an incredible generosity of spirit, and was a mentor to all those around him. Pat Larkins was a Renaissance man. I don't recall a single time Pat sought to do things for himself. I am proud and fortunate to have known him and will miss him dearly, said Hastings." Larkins became Pompano Beach's first African American mayor in 1985, and served a record seven terms in that office. In particular, Larkins made profound contributions in the area of housing, working tirelessly to ensure that safe and adequate housing was available to all. In addition to his many professional achievements, Larkins took an active role in countless public service, social, and religious organizations, including the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), Broward County Boys and Girls Club, the Juvenile Justice Intensive Halfway House, and Hopewell Missionary Baptist Church. Joining Hastings as original co-sponsors of this legislation include: Representatives Corrine Brown (D-FL), Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Ron Klein (D-FL), Kendrick B. Meek (D-FL), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), and Robert Wexler (D-FL). #### pat_larkins_3.3.09
03.03.2009	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the passing of Andrew DeGraffenreidt, Jr., the first African-American elected to Ft. Lauderdale City Commission: "Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the life and achievements of my dear friend, The Honorable Andrew DeGraffenreidt. Andrew died last week, at age 80, in a West Palm Beach hospital, his health having deteriorated since breaking his hip socket in October. My thoughts and prayers are with his family at this most difficult time, and I hope that they may take some comfort in knowing that Andrew had a profound impact on those in our community and made significant contributions to the lives of so many Floridians. "Andrew was born in Kansas City, Missouri and reared in Hollandale, Mississippi. From an early age he showed the remarkable intellect that would serve him so well in the years to come, earning a Bachelor of Science degree from Tougaloo College, Mississippi, where he also met his wife, Eddie Pearl. Andrew went on to earn a Master of Science degree in Zoology from Pennsylvania State University in State College, Pennsylvania. "Andrew put his education to work immediately, starting work as a teacher at Dillard High School in Fort Lauderdale, before moving to Everglades Junior High, where he headed the science department, retiring in 1982. Additionally, he was the teacher for several programs for the Broward County School's ITV Center, including a program that focused on the contributions of minorities to the development of the United States. Andrew was a magnificent mentor to so many that he taught and had a profound impact on the lives of his students. "Madam Speaker, Andrew had also had a distinguished career in publicly-elected office, and it is perhaps through this career that he had the greatest influence. Andrew was the first African American elected to the Fort Lauderdale City Commission, serving three terms from 1973-1979. He achieved this office before the city created political districts in 1988, and remains the only African American to have won this office when it was contested city-wide. Andrew was also the first African-American Superintendent of Parks for the city, and served on the boards of Broward County's Urban League and United Way. "Andrew was a tremendous public servant. He was a champion of the city's neglected minority neighborhoods, working to establish a Youth Advisory Board and to improve city infrastructure. He worked on reforming the city's police department, in particular pushing for the hiring of minorities and encouraging black and white police officers to learn from each other. He also played a key role in opening the Von D. Mizell Community Center in Fort Lauderdale's Dorsey-Riverbend neighborhood. The significance of his work was recognized when, in 2002, the Fort Lauderdale City Commission named the recreation center at Bass Park in his honor and passed a resolution naming Andrew as an Honored Founder of the city. "Madam Speaker, I will treasure Andrew's memory, and although his life has come to an end, his legacy will live on for generations to come. He will be remembered for his generosity and poise, characteristics which enabled him to improve the lives, and earn the respect, of all those who knew him. I am proud and fortunate to call Andrew my friend, and will miss him dearly." ####
03.02.2009	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letter to the Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood with Representatives Robert Wexler (D-FL), Ron Klein (D-FL), Tom Rooney(R-FL), and Bill Posey (R-FL). The letter inquires about the Federal Aviation Administration's (FAA) plans for air traffic control services in the state of Florida. In particular, the letter inquires about the future of the terminal radar approach control (TRACON) services to Fort Pierce, Vero Beach and West Palm Beach Airports. Please find below a copy of the letter: March 2, 2009 The Honorable Raymond LaHood Secretary of Transportation U.S. Department of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Avenue, S.E. Washington, DC 20590 Dear Secretary LaHood, We write to inquire about the Federal Aviation Administration's (FAA) plans for air traffic control services in Florida, particularly the relocation of terminal radar approach control (TRACON) services from West Palm Beach (PBI) to Miami (MIA) and the service provided to the expanding areas around Fort Pierce (FPR) and Vero Beach (VRB). Approach control services for FPR and VRB under the current arrangement are provided by Miami Air Route Traffic Control Center, which is an en-route facility, not an approach control. During meetings between Members of Congress, the FAA, and controllers from Miami Approach, Miami Center and West Palm Beach, discussions have repeatedly centered on the FAA's lack of a strategic plan for Florida. All the parties agree that FPR and VRB would be better served by an approach facility. We are eager to learn more about the agency's immediate and long-term plans for West Palm Beach, Vero Beach and Fort Pierce as well as the entire state of Florida. We are deeply concerned about the recent FAA decision to split tower and radar functions at Orlando International in spite of overwhelming congressional opposition. The combined configuration at Orlando provided management with flexibility to place controllers where circumstances dictated they were needed. At a time when air traffic control staffing is at a record low level, we have significant reservations about any proposal that would include losing this critical flexibility, which allows management to make urgent, on-the-spot personnel changes to mitigate unforeseen staffing deficiencies. Therefore, we respectfully request more detailed information about the FAA's long-term strategic plan for Florida. We are also concerned about the operational benefits of air traffic control facilities that house controllers certified in both radar and tower operations. It is more effective and efficient for a controller to have hands-on working knowledge of both aspects of the operation, so that they can more safely and proficiently hand-off and receive aircraft from and to the next controller. When these functions are split that vital symmetry between radar and tower controllers is lost. We are concerned that this decision is being made absent of any meaningful involvement of vital stakeholders, including the air traffic controllers who are responsible for the safe separation of aircraft in the airspace. Recent history at the Southern California and Denver TRACONs, where controller staffing shortages, workloads, and fatigue were exacerbated by poor planning and a lack of comprehensive controller training on the newly-acquired airspace, has shown that when airspace is moved hastily from one facility to another it can have a significant negative impact on safety. This was recently demonstrated in the fatal crash of Continental Connection Flight 3407. Fortunately, the controller knew exactly where to send first responders because of his knowledge of the local area; this would clearly be lost if West Palm Beach controllers were relocated to another facility in Florida. These problems can be effectively mitigated by allowing for the meaningful involvement of stakeholders in the planning stages of such projects, ensuring that problems are identified before implementation. The FAA Reauthorization Act currently being considered by Congress contains a provision to create a process to ensure that such realignment efforts are properly reviewed and evaluated and that stakeholders are involved throughout the entire process. For all of the aforementioned reasons, we would appreciate your cooperation in sharing with us and our constituents, the FAA's plans for Fort Pierce, Vero Beach and West Palm Beach Airports and all of the air traffic control facilities in Florida. If the plans call for transferring radar services or otherwise realigning these facilities or the services provided at these facilities, we expect that you will provide those plans in detail, as well as justification for the realignment. In addition, we would expect that any plans to realign FAA facilities and services in Florida would be postponed until Congress completes its work on passing a comprehensive FAA Reauthorization measure to ensure a fair and transparent review process of such realignments. Once again thank you for your attention to this important aviation safety matter. We look forward to hearing from you and working with your agency to ensure that any proposals to realign ATC facilities and services in Florida meet their intended goals and involve the close involvement of vital stakeholders. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Robert Wexler Ron Klein Thomas Rooney Bill Posey ####
03.02.2009	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) sent the following letter to the Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis. The letter inquires about the basic fair labor protections for our nation's home health aides and urges change to the current system. Please find below and attached a copy of the letter: March 2, 2009 Secretary Hilda Solis U.S. Department of Labor Frances Perkins Building 200 Constitution Avenue, NW Washington, D.C., 20210 Dear Secretary Solis, I write to congratulate you on your recent confirmation as Secretary of Labor and to convey a matter that is of critical importance to our nation's workers, elderly and disabled, and the future of our health care system. At a time when unemployment rates are soaring, the home health industry remains strong and is one of the fastest growing employment sectors in the nation. And yet, home health aides, the heart and soul of this thriving industry continue to be deprived of the basic fair labor protections that were extended to other domestic workers thirty-five years ago. A cornerstone of the New Deal, the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) of 1938 was enacted to eliminate the burdensome low-wages and long hours that were compromising the productivity, health and well-being of our nation's workers. However, it would take thirty-six years before these provisions were extended to domestic employees, an occupation that was historically occupied by low-income women of color. Since FLSA's enactment, home health aides continue to be exempted from minimum wage and overtime standards that are afforded to other domestic workers. Proponents of this exemption argue that home health aides or "companions" should not be subject to FLSA protections because their services cannot be categorized as trained, professional work. The definition of companion remains notoriously ambiguous and inaccurately interprets home health aides as individuals who simply engage in relationships with their patients, rather than contracted medical and domestic service workers. Companions provide a variety of medical and domestic services to patients that include everything from administering medications to cooking meals and providing routine personal care. Some are Certified Nursing Assistants (CNA's) or have completed state accredited courses and training. What's more, most home health aides are employed by home health care or independent living agencies that receive Medicare and Medicaid funding. In an attempt to fully modernize the treatment of domestic workers under the law, the Clinton Administration proposed a series of guidelines that would clarify the notion of "companionship" and make all home health aides that were medically trained or employed by a home health care agency subject to overtime and minimum wage provisions under the FLSA. However, the Bush Administration withdrew all of these proposals and rejected the notion that companions who are medically trained and work for home health care companies should be covered under the FLSA. The Bush Administration argued that the proposed changes would have an adverse economic impact on the government, disabled and health care agencies. And, there was no attempt to offer suggestions on how to resolve inconsistencies in the definitions of companionship and domestic labor. Far from being beneficial to our economy and small businesses, former President Bush's actions have placed the chronically ill and disabled and low-wage workers that service them in jeopardy. The facts are clear. The large aging population and cost effectiveness of home health care have caused the demand for home health aides to increase. However, susceptibility to injury, low-wages, demanding schedules, frequent travel and lack of benefits cause high turnover rates among home health aides: a profession that continues to be predominately women of color with families. As you begin your tenure as Secretary of Labor, I urge you to address this important issue and help bring long awaited change to our nation's labor and health care system. Thank you for your consideration, I look forward to working with you on this and many other important issues facing our nation. With warm personal regards, I remain, Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress CC: Secretary Charles E. Johnson U.S. Department of Health and Human Services #### home_health_letter_to_solis_3.2.09
02.25.2009	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement in response to President Obama's first address to a Joint Session of Congress: "Thanks to the past eight years of reckless behavior by the Bush administration, President Obama has inherited a $1.3 trillion deficit and the state of our economy is in shambles. My state of Florida has the second highest foreclosure rate of any state in the country, and from November to December alone Florida's unemployment rate rose 0.7%. Floridians and the American people are losing their jobs, cannot pay their bills or mortgage payments and cannot provide for their families. The road ahead is going to be tough and there are no quick-fix solutions that will solve all our problems overnight. These difficult times will require sacrifices from us all, and I will do all that I can to assist President Obama in his pledge to manage our economic crisis in a fiscally responsible manner. One thing is clear however, we cannot stand idly by and do nothing - we must respond and rebuild our nation. "My Republican colleagues in the House have chosen to be the party of ‘no' and the party of ‘we won't compromise.' That is just plain foolish. I stand ready to work with this administration to improve the lives and well-being of the American people, and I will do all that I can for my constituents and the citizens of this great nation. "In closing, it is important to note that under the Bush administration we also saw our nation's diplomatic efforts abroad suffer. Through new leadership, I am confident that our credibility around the globe will be renewed. As Vice Chairman of the House Intelligence Committee and Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, I will work to ensure that we are safer here at home and abroad and that respect for human rights and democracy is preserved and protected." ####
02.25.2009	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the House floor, regarding the Lake Worth Community High School debate team: "Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the debate team of Lake Worth Community High School in Lake Worth, Florida. The team recently competed in a 22-school tournament and took home five awards. Pierre Dorsainvil won best presiding officer; Shermeka Scott, best speaker and best presiding officer; Gia Cerease, original oratory; and Jennifer Price, first overall for declamation. "I am very proud of these fine young people for their skill as debaters and for the many hours of hard work and dedication that resulted in their supremacy over so many other schools. I am delighted, though not surprised, to know that a school in my district is providing an excellent education in the fine art of oratory. It is a skill that my esteemed colleagues and I value very highly, and I hope that some of these talented students will join us in Congress some day. Thank you." ####
02.17.2009	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the United Kingdom earlier today. Hastings is in London attending an international conference entitled, "The London Conference on Combating Anti-Semitism." The conference is being held from February 15-17, 2009 by the U.K's Foreign and Commonwealth Office and the Inter-Parliamentary Coalition for Combating Anti-Semitism (ICCA): "I am very pleased to be here today. As I look out at today's audience filled with some of the world's leaders in the global war against anti-Semitism, I am struck by the sad fact that we are here because, even after all this time, our work is not done. "Do not get me wrong, we have made some headway. I and OSCE Parliamentarians such as Gert Weisskirchen led efforts to unanimously adopt the first OSCE resolution on anti-Semitism in 2002 which initiated OSCE programs to track and fight anti-Semitic crimes, provide education on anti-Semitism and Holocaust remembrance, and the creation of a Personal Representative to Combat Anti-Semitism, now newly appointed Rabbi Andrew Baker. "The OSCE has also held every conference known to man on combating anti-Semitism, including the pivotal Berlin conference in 2004, where over 600 officials from 55 nations pledged to take concrete action to do more. "Now, five years after that conference and close to a decade after our efforts began, where do we stand? "Well, these past months we have witnessed Middle East tensions used as an excuse for Molotov cocktails being thrown at Synagogues in France, attempts to boycott Jewish businesses in Italy, and anti-Semitic graffiti plastered across walls from my home state in Florida to the streets of Russia. "Representatives from the FIDESZ political party in Hungary are marching with the Nazi-uniform clad extremist organization of the Hungarian Guard. David Rath, a regional governor in the Czech Republic, is fondly recalling how Hitler "solved" the economic crisis of his day through arms manufacturing. And, the Slovak Justice Minister is using the floor of his parliament to lambast opposition members with anti-Semitic rantings. "And I hope not to twist his words or his intentions as I quote him, but he told an MP that he reminded him of the "behavior of certain Nazis, who had Jewish ancestors and managed to participate in the murdering of innocent children, women, and old men in concentration camps, just to prove their loyalty to fascism." "Finally, we have neo-Nazi vigilantes running around in Germany, who clearly believe they operate in impunity because of ascensions to power the affiliated German National Party has made. "How else does it become acceptable to stab a German police director on his doorstep or force a Mayor into hiding for their efforts to halt neo-Nazi and related political activities? "Based on these events and numerous others I do not have time to cite here today, if I had to honestly assess where we are in this fight, I would have to say that we have a lot of work to do. "It is very clear that despite the pledges of our governments, those we have made as policymakers, and the work of the civil society to aid us in our efforts, we are not yet winning. "If we were, how is it that tensions in the Middle East could so easily multiply the number of hate crimes and other manifestations of anti-Semitism globally, despite declines in many places in recent years? "How could extremist political parties so easily ascend to power and gain footholds in other aspects of our society to the point where it becomes acceptable to not only voice anti-Semitic beliefs in the halls of power, but also anti-migrant and other doctrines that promote intergroup strife and violence? "The truth is that we have failed to ensure that the remedies that have been put in place, be they laws or conference recommendations, are being effectively used and enforced. "Despite what countries have agreed to, in the OSCE only 13 of the 56 participating states are fulfilling their basic commitments to monitor hate crimes. Close to half of the EU countries have not correctly implemented equality directives and the majority of OSCE countries still fail to appropriately monitor and report on discrimination in their societies. "And we have grown complacent or should I say complicit as well. As policymakers, how often are we really using our pubic platforms to speak out against the injustices we are witnessing - be they by our colleagues or a stranger on the street? "How many of us have turned a blind eye to policies and doctrines that allow migrants, Roma, and Muslims to be the new scapegoats, while forgetting that history has already shown us that a new sacrificial lamb can and will in time take their place if prejudice is allowed to prosper? "How many of us are partnering with others with similar circumstances to implement joint solutions when possible? "Following these conferences, how many of us return to our countries and write letters, hold meetings, or engage in other activities so that we know what our governments are and are not doing to implement efforts to combat anti-Semitism? "How many of us know the funding levels or effectiveness of the programs that have been created in our classrooms to teach about prejudice and discrimination or in our police forces or justice centers to punish related crimes? "How many of us know how many of these programs there are, if they are working, and whether they should be sustained and expanded or scrapped for better initiatives? "As elected officials, we must recognize that we have a unique responsibility to know the answer to these questions and that we are uniquely positioned in many cases to, design, shape, and support the laws and programs that garner their answers. "Don't get me wrong. I know strides have been made. French President Sarkozy's public condemnation of recent acts of anti-Semitism, an Italian Mayor's rebuke of calls to boycott Jewish stores by shopping in them, rallies held against the Slovakian Justice Minister's anti-Semitic outburst, and declines in support in some countries for extremist parties are all laudable. "The efforts of your own Parliamentary Committee Against Anti-Semitism are to be commended and the OSCE's focus on anti-Semitism is unprecedented. "But these efforts must be built upon, and as policymakers, we have the visibility, access, and power to do so. "We must also bring experts and governments together to address hate on the internet while protecting our civil liberties. We cannot allow such a great tool as the internet to allow anti-Semitic and other hate to proliferate and undermine our societies. "As we sit here today genocide is taking place in Darfur, Sudan and the Congo. It is hypocritical for us to sit here speaking about what could happen without addressing what is happening now. If we do not address genocide taking place now, how can we expect the world to address genocide or the threat of genocide elsewhere? "I am certain that some of you think I am being unfair or too harsh, but I have been fighting a lifetime and cannot believe first, that we are not further along, and second that there is not more that we can be doing in our stations. "For those of you I have upset, I hope my words will simply motivate you to do everything in your power to prove me wrong. For everyone else, let's role up our sleeves and get to work." Last week, Hastings introduced H.Res.174, which condemns the systematic use of intimidation and violence against the Jewish community in South America and calls upon the governments of Venezuela, Argentina, and Bolivia to address the recent rise in anti-Semitism in their respective countries. ####
02.13.2009	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the passage of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (H.R. 1), which passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 246 to 183 this afternoon: "The state of our economy is in dire straits - this is the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. The passage of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act is a crucial first step to getting our economy back on track. Americans are losing their homes, their jobs, and are unable to provide for their families. This recovery package invests in our nation during its greatest time of need. Unfortunately, Republicans in Congress chose to place partisan politics before the American people by not supporting this legislation and that I think is shameful. "I do not pretend that this package will immediately solve all of the complex, deep-rooted challenges facing our economy, but it is a significant and necessary step toward long-term economic recovery that will provide critical relief to struggling families all across this nation." ####
02.13.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced a resolution condemning the spread of anti-Semitism in South America and the recent acts of violence against Jewish communities in Venezuela, Argentina, and Bolivia. These events include the January 21st vandalism in La Paz, Bolivia, where vandals removed a large Star of David from a celebrated monument, spray-painted "plaza Palestina" over the plaza's Judaic murals, and left behind a burning American flag, and the January 30th violent attack on the Tiferet Israel synagogue in Caracas, Venezuela, in which armed men fired tear gas and then desecrated the place of worship and its historic Torah scrolls. "The threat of anti-Semitism is still very real. Anti-Semitism is a hallmark of racial and religious hatred and needs to be addressed forcefully by the international community," said Hastings. "I will continue to dedicate my efforts toward eradicating all forms of hatred. This resolution is a necessary step to promote awareness of these injustices and to ensure that a climate of intolerance is not being fostered by South American governments." "Throughout my life, and throughout my tenure in Congress, I have always condemned the unconscionable spread of anti-Semitism wherever it has raised its ugly head. There is never an excuse to single out members of the Jewish community for attack, to destroy their sacred property, to boycott their businesses, or to perpetuate physical harm." Hastings' resolution calls upon the Venezuelan, Argentinean, and Bolivian governments to take all necessary steps to ensure that anti-Semitism is not tolerated in South America and that the long-term safety of South America's Jewish communities are secure. ####
02.12.2009	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement regarding Zimbabwean opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai being sworn in as Prime Minister on February 11. The inauguration marks a shift for Zimbabwe as President Robert Mugabe ceded significant power to an opposition for the first time: "Madame Speaker, I rise today to recognize a new leadership body in Zimbabwe, and reaffirm the need for a global commitment to supporting this country on its long road to recovery and stability. "Yesterday, Zimbabwean President Joseph Mugabe swore in his longtime rival Morgan Tsvangirai as Prime Minister. This political marriage was not made in heaven, but in the midst of social unrest, corruption, fuel shortages and unprecedented levels of unemployment, some see this union as a symbol of long-awaited change. Others however, fear that this co-leadership is in name only, and that Mugabe's nearly three decades of oppressive rule have yet to come to an end. "Under the Mugabe regime, voter bribery and intimidation, violence, press censorship and skyrocketing inflation have become all too familiar. Once hailed as the bread basket of Africa, Zimbabwe is now a nation of impoverished millionaires where 10 million dollars buys a loaf of bread if you are lucky, and where the vast majority are forced to make do with a few crumbs. Cholera, a disease that has not plagued the United States in nearly a century has spread to every area of Zimbabwe, and claimed thousands of lives because of contaminated food and water. ####
02.11.2009	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the House floor regarding the wildfires that have ravaged Australia's southern State of Victoria: "Madam Speaker, I rise today to express my deep regret for the loss of life and destruction of property that is occurring in Australia as a consequence of wildfires, and to extend my condolences to the Australian people. "Although wildfires are common during the Australian summer, strong winds, extreme temperatures and dry conditions have combined in recent days to fuel fires, which have ravaged Australia's southern State of Victoria with unparalleled force. Despite the prompt and earnest efforts of rescue crews and firefighters, 181 deaths have been confirmed and, according to yesterday's edition of Australia's Sydney Morning Herald, police fear that as many as 300 people have already passed. More than 750 properties spanning 350,000 hectares of land have been destroyed. Whole communities have been decimated; in the town of Marysville, which was hit by a 60-mile-long fire front, it is feared that 100 of the 519 residents have been killed. Tragically, these numbers are likely to deteriorate further, there being approximately 23 fires which remain uncontained. "Encouragingly, the size of the tragedy has been matched by the size and speed of the response. I extend my sincere appreciation to the emergency rescue crews, firefighters and Australia's Federal and Victorian Governments for their well-coordinated response to this calamity. The loss suffered would have been far greater were it not for the skill, dedication, compassion and sacrifice of these emergency responders. "I also extend my best wishes to law enforcement authorities as they investigate the causes of this tragedy. Unfortunately, preliminary investigations indicate that some of the fires may have been deliberately lit. I have full confidence that the Australian authorities will bring anyone responsible for this death and destruction to justice, and take such other action as is necessary to minimize the likelihood of future calamities of this nature. "Madam Speaker, the fires that continue to burn in Southeast Australia have caused loss and destruction on a catastrophic scale. The Australian people will truly be in my thoughts and prayers over the coming weeks. I wish the affected communities the very best as they fight to retain and rebuild their lives, and encourage my colleagues to do so as well. Thank you." ####
02.11.2009	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the House floor in celebration of Black History Month: "Madam Speaker, I rise today to commemorate this 33rd Black History Month, a month that celebrates black history with a view to its promotion, preservation and research. "Black History Month has grown as a celebration of black history and culture over many decades. At the urging of historian Carter Woodson, the second African American to receive a degree from Harvard University, the fraternity Omega Psi Phi first created Negro History and Literature Week in 1920. In 1926, Woodson changed Negro History and Literature Week to Negro History Week, and chose the second week of February for its celebration in order to honor the births of President Abraham Lincoln and Frederick Douglass, two men who had a profound influence in the fight for equality for African Americans. "Although Woodson died in 1950, his legacy continued. In the early 1970's, the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History, now called the Association for the Study of African American Life and History, changed Negro History Week to Black History Week. In 1976, they extended the week to a month-long observance. "Since its earliest origins, Black History Month has made a significant contribution to the promotion, preservation and research of black history. When the tradition of Black History Month first began, black history had barely been explored by mainstream academia. Although much work remains to complete our understanding of African-American culture, our understanding is vastly improved. This has contributed to both an increased sense of racial pride amongst African-Americans and an increased appreciation of African-American culture amongst non-white Americans. "Madam Speaker, these and other continued improvements are essential to addressing the inequalities, which continue to affect African-Americans. For these reasons, I am extremely pleased to commemorate Black History Month and encourage my colleagues to join me in doing so as well. Thank you. ####
02.06.2009	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made a statement on being reappointed to the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. share: f t Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on being reappointed to the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence: "It is a great honor and privilege to return to the House Intelligence Committee. I deeply appreciate Speaker Pelosi's continued trust in me, and I look forward to continuing my work with Chairman Reyes and other colleagues. My previous tenure on the Committee has allowed me to serve the people of South Florida and this great nation and to work to ensure that we are safer here at home and abroad. We unfortunately live in a very dangerous world and must always be vigilant of those who wish to cause harm not only to Americans, but all peace-loving people. "Since my first days on the House Intelligence Committee in 1999, I have raised the issue of diversifying our intelligence community. Simply put, we still do not have an Intelligence Community that looks like our country - let alone the rest of the world. Women and minorities continue to be disproportionately underrepresented in the senior ranks and the core-mission areas - including analysis, human intelligence collection, and science and technology. As a member of the Committee, I will work to close this disparaging gap within the intelligence community. "As a member of the Committee, I will continue to work tirelessly on behalf of the brave men and women of the intelligence community and make sure that they have the tools necessary to keep us safe. As Co-Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, I have been actively engaged on security issues examining arms proliferation, terrorism and other emerging threats around the globe. Rejoining the Intelligence panel allows me to broaden and deepen this work as we chart a new course in the 111th Congress." ####
02.04.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made a statement on the passage of the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). The bill passed by a vote of 290-135 and is expected to be signed into law by President Obama later today. share: f t Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the passage of the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). The bill passed by a vote of 290-135 and is expected to be signed into law by President Obama later today: "For over a decade SCHIP has saved millions of America's low-income families from suffering the consequences of living without healthcare insurance, and exemplified our nation's commitment to equal opportunity. "In a country where a large portion of people receive healthcare insurance through their employer, it comes as no surprise that when the economy and job market plunge, the number of uninsured Americans soars. And children frequently pay the highest price. "This issue hits close to home. The state Florida was recently ranked 45th in the nation in terms of overall health. Like other low ranking states, Florida has a large uninsured population and a high rate of child poverty. In fact, Florida has the second largest number of uninsured children in the country. What's more, a disproportionate number of Florida's uninsured and low-income children are black, Hispanic and reside in rural areas. The enactment of this legislation is a noble beginning to achieving healthcare reform for our nation's children." ####
01.27.2009	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made a statement on the passage of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act. share: f t Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) made the following statement on the passage of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act. The legislation that passed the House of Representatives will begin to close the gender pay gap in this country by reversing a Supreme Court decision that has kept women from pursing pay discrimination claims. "Through the passage of this legislation, we correct the injustice that occurred following the unlawful discrimination against Ms. Lilly Ledbetter. After nearly two decades of service to the Goodyear Tire and Rubber facility in Alabama, Ms. Ledbetter discovered that she was the lowest-paid supervisor at the plant, despite having more experience than several of her male colleagues. "The Supreme Court's decision put workers who were subject to discrimination at an extreme disadvantage. As Ms. Ledbetter's case shows, it is very difficult for employees to discover pay discrimination, and workers may not discover pay discrimination for many years after they are discriminated against. Under the Supreme Court's decision, many victims of this deplorable practice would be left without recourse. "The passage of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act will strengthen protections against discrimination and safeguard the civil liberties of our nation's employees." ###
01.22.2009	Today, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) reintroduced the National Emergency Centers Establishment Act, which would create six National Emergency Centers throughout the United States to better respond to national emergencies. The Centers would provide temporary housing, medical, and humanitarian assistance, including education for individuals and families displaced due to an emergency. In addition, the Centers will also serve as a centralized location for the training and coordination of first responders in the instance of an emergency. "The lack of natural disaster preparedness efforts and temporary housing options for disaster-stricken citizens has only exacerbated an unbearable situation. Deficient recovery responses have led to elongated recovery rates in my district and across this nation," said Congressman Hastings. "We have an obligation to better prepare and more adequately respond to the needs of communities hit by natural disasters. We have a responsibility to ensure that basic needs of disaster victims are met immediately following the devastation. Our nation was not prepared for the disastrous hurricanes that struck Florida and the Gulf Coast in 2004 and in 2005. The enactment of this legislation will help to ensure that our government is able to adequately respond to families and individuals displaced due to an emergency." ####
01.19.2009	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar), made the following statement in honor of Barack Obama's inauguration as the 44th President of the United States of America: share: f t Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar), made the following statement in honor of Barack Obama's inauguration as the 44th President of the United States of America: "As the world witnesses the Presidential Inauguration tomorrow, the peaceful transfer of power from one democratic government to the next, I am reminded that we live in an extraordinary nation, and in extraordinary times. "Much like the accomplishments of those before him, Barack Obama has shattered yet another significant racial barrier in public service by becoming the first African-American President of the United States. He ran an historic campaign looking to change America and to improve our credibility around the world. "I stand ready to work with the Obama administration in heralding a new era in the history of this country, one that is characterized by a renewed government that will bring forth prosperity and peace here at home and abroad." ####
01.16.2009	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) issued a statement in commemoration of the 23rd annual Martin Luther King, Jr. Day that will be celebrated on Monday, January 19. share: f t Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) issued the following statement in commemoration of the 23rd annual Martin Luther King, Jr. Day that will be celebrated on Monday, January 19: "As we celebrate Martin Luther King Jr. Day this year, we must not only recall the efforts of earlier generations who fought for equal rights for all Americans, but we must also continue that work. King's dream of equality for all has yet to be realized. We need only look at the failing school systems, impoverished living environments, and high unemployment rates disproportionately impacting minority communities. While the ascension of the first Black American to the position of President marks progress, our work is not yet done. I urge all Americans to consider on this day what more they can be doing to fulfill Dr. King's dream." ###
01.15.2009	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Congressman John D. Dingell (D-MI), reintroduced the Iraqi Refugee and Internally Displaced Persons Humanitarian Assistance, Resettlement, and Security Act of 2009. share: f t Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Congressman John D. Dingell (D-MI), reintroduced the Iraqi Refugee and Internally Displaced Persons Humanitarian Assistance, Resettlement, and Security Act of 2009. The comprehensive legislation addresses this crisis and the potential security break-down resulting from the mass influx of Iraqi refugees into neighboring countries and the growing internally displaced population in Iraq, and also facilitates the resettlement of Iraqis at risk. (Please find attached a copy of the legislation). "For those Iraqis whose lives are endangered to the point that family members have been murdered, kidnapped or their safety threatened daily, I believe more must be done in responding to this crisis. It is clear to me that a ‘humanitarian surge' must not just be talked about, but instead be put into action," said Congressman Hastings. "The tragic circumstances that so many Iraqis continue to face could ultimately result in far-reaching security implications for the region. I stand ready to work with President-elect Obama's administration and my colleagues in Congress to address this worsening crisis." "I want to commend Congressman Hastings for his leadership on the Iraqi refugee crisis. This bill is a necessary and important step toward helping the millions of Iraqis forced from their homes and away from their families inside Iraq as well as into neighboring countries," Congressman Dingell said. "As violence in Iraq diminishes and as the Obama administration enters office, now is the moment to implement new policies that begin to address the staggering reality of the plight of Iraqis since the war began. I look forward to working with Congressman Hastings and my Congressional colleagues alongside the new Administration on achieving real security, and ultimately, stability for this besieged population." Refugees International stated, "We support the reintroduction of the Hastings legislation. This legislation lays out a framework for a wide-ranging response to the displacement crisis in and around Iraq. RI has strongly advocated for the US government to develop a comprehensive response to the displacement crisis. We applaud Congressman Hastings and the co-sponsors for their leadership on this issue, and urge the Congress to move quickly on it." The Members of Congress who have co-sponsored the legislation include Representatives James P. McGovern (D-MA), William Delahunt (D-MA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Joseph Crowley (D-NY), Rush Holt (D-NJ), Janice D. Schakowsky (D-IL), Maxine Waters (D-CA), Diane Watson (D-CA), Lynn Woolsey (D-CA), Joseph Courtney (D-CT), and Gwen Moore (D-WI). The Iraqi refugee crisis has displaced more than 4.7 million people within Iraq and in neighboring countries such as Jordan, Syria, Turkey, Egypt, and Lebanon. The situation in the region has continued to deteriorate, and Iraqis are finding themselves living amongst resentful host populations. As the day-to-day needs of Iraqis continue to increase and their resources diminish, the security situation could have broad regional implications. ### PDF of the Legislation: iraqi_refugee_bill_111th
01.08.2009	U.S. Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) today introduced the bipartisan National Hurricane Research Initiative Act of 2009, a comprehensive hurricane research bill which will improve hurricane research dramatically in the United States. share: f t U.S. Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) today introduced the bipartisan National Hurricane Research Initiative Act of 2009, a comprehensive hurricane research bill which will improve hurricane research dramatically in the United States. The bill authorizes $2.35 billion in critical hurricane research funding to help scientists study and better understand how hurricanes form and intensify, as well as enhance early warning systems, infrastructure durability standards, and hurricane tracking and prediction capabilities. "One of my top priorities in the new Congress is to ensure the nation and the state of Florida are better prepared to respond to and mitigate the devastating impacts of hurricanes. The current Federal investment in hurricane research is shameful in contrast to our nation's increasing vulnerability. This legislation will ensure improved coordinated research to fill the gaps in our hurricane knowledge. We have the power to use our forward thinking to save both property and lives. I am hopeful that my colleagues will recognize the significance of this initiative and support this good bill," said Representative Hastings. "As a State and as a nation, we are woefully unprepared to handle the sometimes devastating consequences of hurricanes and their aftermath. This legislation seeks to correct that and make a difference in the crucial area of hurricane research, so it is imperative for every member of the Florida Congressional Delegation to support this bill and lobby others on its behalf. To do nothing would be a dereliction of our duty and lives and property would be at great risk," said Representative Ros-Lehtinen. The National Hurricane Research Initiative Act of 2009 takes the general recommendations of the National Science Board (a 24-member independent advisory body to the President and Congress on national science and engineering issues) and assembles the expertise of the nation's science and engineering experts to gain a better understanding of hurricane prediction and intensity. Under the bill, research is directed to further develop communications emergency networks for government agencies and non-government entities to improve disaster response and recovery. This legislation also establishes a National Infrastructure Data Base to develop standards and establish public policy to better understand hurricanes and tropical storms and develops a National Hurricane Research Test Bed (NHRTB) to conduct integrative research and facilitate the transfer of research knowledge to operational applications. The National Hurricane Research Initiative Act of 2009 has been endorsed by the State University System of Florida (Florida Board of Governors and Council of State University Presidents), and the University of Miami. In June 2008, the House of Representatives Science and Technology Subcommittee on Energy and Environment and Subcommittee on Science Education held a hearing on this legislation. Representatives Hastings and Ros-Lehtinen intend to push hard for a markup and floor consideration prior to the 2009 hurricane season. Florida's Senators Mel Martinez (R-FL) and Bill Nelson (D-FL) introduced nearly identical legislation (S.931) in the 110th Congress. A summary and copy of the bill are attached to the release. # # # #
01.07.2009	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today introduced the Critical Election Infrastructure Act of 2009, legislation authorizing $1 billion over the next four years to combat long lines at the polls and meet the needs of increasing numbers of voters. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today introduced the Critical Election Infrastructure Act of 2009, legislation authorizing $1 billion over the next four years to combat long lines at the polls and meet the needs of increasing numbers of voters. "How we vote is fundamental to the nature of our democracy," said Representative Hastings. "It is unconscionable that millions of Americans have to stand in line for hours and hours simply to exercise their right to vote. Tens of thousands of my constituents were forced to stand in lines as long as five or six hours. This is an impediment to voting. Local governments, with aid from the federal government, have an obligation to ensure that voting is accessible to all citizens and is conducted as comfortably and efficiently as possible." The Critical Election Infrastructure Act authorizes $250 million in federal spending in each of the next four years to states and local governments to upgrade, expand, and acquire more election equipment. Funding can also be used to hire and train more poll workers to work during early voting periods and on Election Day. "This legislation is essential to meeting the needs of an increasing number of voters," said Representative Hastings. "More polling equipment and more poll workers mean that more citizens can exercise their right to vote. Voting is a sacred right for all citizens and must not be imperiled by undue hardships." Representative Hastings has been a leader in election reform for years. Following the 2000 election, he was tapped by the then-Democratic Leader Richard Gephardt to serve as Vice Chair of the Democratic Special Committee on Election Reform. He is also the author of the Voter Outreach and Turnout Expansion (VOTE) Act, which would establish Election Day as a national holiday and allow for no-excuse absentee voting and same-day voter registration throughout the country. Representative Hastings also led successful efforts in October, 2008 to convince Florida Governor Charlie Crist to extend early voting hours in Florida to reduce lines at the polls. ####
12.29.2008	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) issued a statement today regarding on-going events in Israel and the Gaza Strip. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) issued the following statement today regarding on-going events in Israel and the Gaza Strip: "I, like so many others, am deeply troubled by the on-going events in Israel and the Gaza Strip: "It is regrettable that in response to Hamas' refusal to negotiate with Israel and continue its ceasefire, Israel was forced into this situation. Hamas has chosen war over peace. Israel has but no other choice to respond and protect its citizens. "When I was in Israel earlier this month, I told Prime Minister Olmert that the United States would not tolerate Hamas attacks on Israel. I reinforced the overwhelming view in Congress that Hamas is not only an impediment to peace between Israel and the Palestinians, but also to Israel's efforts to establish normal diplomatic relations with many in the Arab world. "In my meetings on that same trip with leaders and dignitaries in North Africa and the Middle East, I learned that this view is shared my many in the Arab world who see Hamas for what it is: a terrorist organization which feeds off of instability and fear rather than seeking to improve the lives of Palestinians. "I stand with Israel and support President-elect Obama in his efforts to bring about peace and stability in the Middle East." Earlier this month, Representative Hastings traveled to North Africa and the Middle East in his capacity as Chairman of the U.S. Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe (Helsinki Commission) and as the Special Representative on Mediterranean Affairs for the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) Parliamentary Assembly. During the trip, Representative Hastings met with foreign leaders, parliamentarians, dignitaries and NGOs in Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Egypt, Israel, and Portugal. He also met with former Jordanian Foreign Minister and current Jordanian Ambassador to Egypt Hani al-Mulki who helped negotiate the Israel-Jordan peace accords in 1994. # # # #
12.09.2008	U.S. Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) and Robert Wexler (D-Boca Raton) issued the following statement today in response to the decision made by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to resume deportation flights to Haiti. share: f t U.S. Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) and Robert Wexler (D-Boca Raton) issued the following statement today in response to the decision made by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to resume deportation flights to Haiti. "Upon hearing from several groups in South Florida today that deportations would be starting again, our staff confirmed with ICE officials that, in fact, deportations to Haiti have already begun. We find this decision to be short-sighted and inhumane. "Over the course of the past year, Haiti has been ravaged by a devastating food crisis and four back-to-back natural disasters. Months later, Haiti's economic and physical infrastructure remains practically obliterated. Haiti is certainly no stranger to crisis and despair. Even more, many deported Haitians simply have no communities to return to. It is disappointing that the Bush Administration would even consider sending people back to this incredibly fragile nation. "Instead of pursuing this course of action, the United States should extend a helping hand to Haiti, as it has done for other nations in similar situations, by granting Haitians Temporary Protected Status. Haiti has long met the qualifications for TPS, and it is now more urgent than ever that the United States provide them with this much needed, long overdue, temporary assistance." # # # #
11.26.2008	Today, U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) wrote to President-elect Barack Obama urging him to make granting Temporary Protected Status (TPS) to Haitians a priority in his new Administration. share: f t Today, U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) wrote to President-elect Barack Obama urging him to make granting Temporary Protected Status (TPS) to Haitians a priority in his new Administration. "The people of Haiti cannot afford to wait a single day longer for this much needed assistance," Representative Hastings stated. "While I continue to hope that our current President will finally acknowledge and address the dire plight of the Haitian people, it is important that the next Administration be made aware of the importance of TPS. "President-elect Obama was elected on a platform of renewing America's global leadership. By extending TPS to Haiti, as we have done for other nations in similar situations, our new President will once again prove that the strength of America is not simply the might of its military but also its capacity for compassion." Representative Hastings is a leader in the fight to end double-standard immigration practices as they pertain to Haitian migrants. He is the author of H.R. 522, the Haitian Protection Act, legislation which would designate Haitian nationals in the United States as eligible for TPS. Representative Hastings has been calling for the extension of TPS to Haitian nationals for years and has been continuously engaged in correspondence with the Bush Administration on this matter. The text of Representative Hastings' letter follows: November 26, 2008 The Honorable Barack Obama President-elect 461 6th Street, NW Washington, D.C. 20270 Dear Mr. President-elect: Haiti has suffered compounding national crises over the course of this past year. Most recently, the two school collapses in Petionville and Port-au-Prince have once again shown us the devastating consequences of Haiti's fragile infrastructure. As you are reviewing Executive Orders issued by the current Administration, many of which have certainly been misguided, I urge you to consider issuing an Executive Order upon taking office granting Haitian nationals Temporary Protected Status (TPS). TPS is the least expensive, most immediate form of humanitarian assistance the United States can provide, as it allows the Haitian government to invest all of its limited resources in the rebuilding and redevelopment of its severely strained physical and economic infrastructure. In keeping with your promise to renew America's global leadership, I respectfully ask that you allow Haitians to sustain and rebuild their country by granting Haitian nationals currently residing in the United States TPS. I thank you for your consideration and look forward to working with you and your Administration on this and other matters of mutual concern. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress # # # #
11.19.2008	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) will today introduce the Critical Election Infrastructure Act of 2008, legislation authorizing $1 billion over the next four years to combat long lines at the polls and meet the needs of increasing numbers of voters. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) will today introduce the Critical Election Infrastructure Act of 2008, legislation authorizing $1 billion over the next four years to combat long lines at the polls and meet the needs of increasing numbers of voters. "This bill is a critical and essential investment in our nation's democracy," said Representative Hastings. "Tens of thousands of my constituents were forced to stand in line for four, five, six hours, maybe even more. Local governments need more equipment and more people on the ground to handle the increasing number of voters participating in our democracy. This legislation is an opportunity to meet those needs." The Critical Election Infrastructure Act authorizes $250 million in federal spending in each of the next four years to states and local governments to upgrade, expand, and acquire more election equipment. Funding can also be used to hire and train more poll workers to work during early voting periods and on Election Day. "Voting should not be a right granted only to those who can stand in line the longest or who can go the longest without food or a bathroom break," said Representative Hastings. "Voting is the sacred right of all eligible citizens. We have a solemn responsibility to ensure the greatest possible access to exercise that right and make that experience as comfortable and efficient as possible." Representative Hastings has been a leader in election reform for years. Following the 2000 election, he was tapped by then-Democratic Leader Richard Gephardt to serve as Vice Chair of the Democratic Special Committee on Election Reform. He is also the author of the Voter Outreach and Turnout Expansion (VOTE) Act, which would establish Election Day as a national holiday and allow for no-excuse absentee voting and same-day voter registration throughout the country. Representative Hastings also led successful efforts last month to convince Florida Governor Charlie Crist to extend early voting hours in Florida to reduce lines at the polls. ####
11.12.2008	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) issued the following statement in response to today's fatal shooting of 15 year old Amanda Collete at Dillard High School in Fort Lauderdale. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) issued the following statement in response to today's fatal shooting of 15 year old Amanda Collete at Dillard High School in Fort Lauderdale. "I am extremely saddened by this act of senseless violence. It is disheartening to think that the youth of today must face matters that many adults could not have imagined at such a young age. Though this incident is certainly an extreme, incidences of violence are far too rampant in our nation's schools, and it is our collective responsibility to ensure that students are able to learn in the safe and productive environment they deserve. My thoughts and prayers are with Amanda's family and friends and with the countless young lives that have been taken by similarly unjustifiable acts." # # # #
10.08.2008	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) will hold a townhall meeting this Saturday, October 11, 2008 at 1:00-3:00 PM at the Palm Beach Community College in Lake Worth regarding Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Haitian Refugees. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) will hold a townhall meeting this Saturday, October 11, 2008 at 1:00-3:00 PM at the Palm Beach Community College in Lake Worth regarding Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Haitian Refugees. Guest panelists at the meeting will include various Haitian leadership and advocacy groups. The meeting information follows: Town Hall Meeting on Temporary Protected Status for Haitian Refugees Saturday, October 11, 2008 1:00 - 3:00 PM Allied Health Lecture Hall Palm Beach Community College 4200 S. Congress Avenue Lake Worth, Florida This meeting follows Representative Hastings' letter of October 2, 2008 with 31 bipartisan Members of Congress to Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff urging him to assist in Haiti's recovery from Tropical Storm Fay and Hurricane Gustav by granting Haitian immigrants currently residing in the United States Temporary Protected Status (TPS). On September 23, 2008, Representative Hastings testified before the House Foreign Affairs Committee at a hearing entitled, "The Hurricanes in Haiti: Disaster and Recovery." His testimony focused on the absolute necessity to grant Haitians currently in the United States TPS. Representative Hastings is a leader in the fight to end double-standard immigration practices as they pertain to Haitian migrants. He is the author of H.R. 522, the Haitian Protection Act, legislation which would designate Haitian nationals in the United States as eligible for TPS. Representative Hastings has been calling for the extension of TPS to Haitian nationals for years and has been continuously engaged in correspondence with the Bush Administration on this matter. For more information about Representative Hastings involvement in this issue over the years, visit /. # # # #
10.03.2008	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) issued the following statement today following the House of Representatives' passage of the U.S. economic recovery package. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) issued the following statement today following the House of Representatives' passage of the U.S. economic recovery package. As he did on Monday this week, Representative Hastings voted in favor of the package. "I applaud the passage of this critical legislation. The bill will begin to unclog dangerously tightening credit markets and sends a strong signal to the global markets that the American economy is pro-actively working toward recovery. Today's actions and those of the last two weeks have also shown that Democrats can and will lead - during good times and bad - in bipartisan fashion. "This bill will help stem the tide of home foreclosures. It will protect community banks and credit unions - some of the most reliable lenders to people living in my district. It will ensure that minorities will continue to have fair and full access to small business loans and will protect renters who could become homeless if the owners of their homes go into foreclosure. It cracks down on CEO severance packages and establishes oversight mechanisms needed to crack down on corporate greed and irresponsibility. And it ensures that financial institutions - not the American people - will bear the financial costs for failure. "The package also provides disaster assistance to Midwest and Gulf Coast residents who are still reeling from the storms of this year and gives Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) relief to middle class families. It makes critical investments in renewable energy and alternative fuels, helps rural schools, and finally makes good on a Democratic promise to send the Paul Wellstone Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act to the President's desk for his signature. "After House Republicans defeated this bill on Monday, the markets lost a record $1.2 trillion in one day. The American people have been asking since then, ‘How many more retirement accounts have to be obliterated before they wake up and do the right thing? How many college savings plan vanish? How many small businesses have to lose their lines of credit? How many states and local governments have to lose their ability to pay their teachers or fund their infrastructure?' "This legislation may not be perfect, but it is certainly necessary. The egregious irresponsibility of Wall Street and the misaligned priorities of this Republican Administration have put our economy and the well-being of all Americans at risk. With the majority of House Republicans again voting against this bill today, it is clearer than ever that they just don't get it. Republicans got us into this mess but aren't willing to help get us out of it. "This package is a necessary first step, but it is certainly not the only one in solving this financial crisis. As we move forward, it is vital that Congress continue the necessary work to reform our nation's financial regulations, crack down on predatory lending, protect American homeowners, and always put the needs of the American consumer before those of the Wall Street CEO. My constituents have my word that I will always do anything and everything to protect their homes, their jobs, and their livelihoods." # # # #
10.02.2008	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) led a bipartisan group of 31 Members this week in urging Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff to grant Haitian migrants currently residing in the United States Temporary Protected Status (TPS). share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) led a bipartisan group of 31 Members this week in urging Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff to grant Haitian migrants currently residing in the United States Temporary Protected Status (TPS). "It is unconscionable to think that at a time when Haiti's physical and economic infrastructure has been obliterated and cities remain buried under feet of water and mud, this Administration is still considering deporting Haitians," Representative Hastings stated. "Haiti is certainly no stranger to crisis and despair. But at the present time, deported Haitians simply have no communities to which to return. "This past week, the Department of Homeland Security extended TPS for the eleventh year for Honduras and Nicaragua and for the eighth year for El Salvador," Representative Hastings continued. "These nations were rightfully granted the opportunity to return to a sense of normalcy. Yet, time and again, Haiti is overlooked. How dire must the situation in Haiti become before the U.S. government is willing to take adequate action?" Representative Hastings is a leader in the fight to end double-standard immigration practices as they pertain to Haitian migrants. He is the author of H.R. 522, the Haitian Protection Act, legislation which would designate Haitian nationals in the United States as eligible for TPS. Representative Hastings has been calling for the extension of TPS to Haitian nationals for years and has been continuously engaged in correspondence with the Bush Administration on this matter. The text of Representative Hastings' letter follows: September 30, 2008 The Honorable Michael Chertoff Secretary of Homeland Security U.S. Department of Homeland Security Washington, D.C. 20528 Dear Secretary Chertoff, We write to you to express our deep concern regarding the current situation in Haiti and to urge you to grant Haitian immigrants in the United States Temporary Protected Status (TPS). As you know, TPS may be granted when any of the following conditions are met: there is ongoing armed conflict posing a serious threat to personal safety; it is requested by a foreign state that temporarily cannot handle the return of nationals due to environmental disaster; or when extraordinary and temporary conditions in a foreign state exist which prevent aliens from returning. Now, more than ever, Haiti continues to meet all of the requirements for TPS. In less than a month's time, Haiti has been ravaged by not one, but four natural disasters. Roads and bridges have been wiped out, leaving many cities and towns isolated and only accessible by air. Fields and crops have been flooded, obliterating the nation's meager domestic food supply. Over 850,000 individuals have been affected with 423 people reported dead, over 150,000 people internally displaced, and nearly 50,000 homes damaged or destroyed. Haiti is certainly no stranger to crisis and despair. But at the present time, deported Haitians simply have no communities to which to return. The original TPS designation for Nicaragua, Honduras, and El Salvador was granted in response to similarly destructive natural disasters. For the past ten years in the cases of Nicaragua and Honduras and the past seven in the case of El Salvador, the United States has rightfully acknowledged and supported the efforts of these nations to return to a sense of normalcy by granting and extending TPS to nationals of these countries. Meanwhile, at the same time and under equally dire situations, Haitian migrants have not received similar treatment. As Haiti's humanitarian crisis becomes increasingly dire and the nation's struggle for economic stability and sustainable development is further delayed, it is now more imperative than ever that the United States grant Haitian immigrants TPS. TPS is the least expensive, most immediate form of humanitarian assistance we can provide Haiti, as it allows the Haitian government to invest all of its limited resources in the rebuilding and redevelopment of its struggling economy. Haiti has made considerable progress in its efforts to recover from the physical and political damages of recent years through its commendable rebuilding efforts and its democratic elections. However, its democracy remains fragile. As Haitians continue to live under ever worsening conditions, it is only a matter of time before a humanitarian crisis becomes a political one threatening the stability of Haiti and our entire region. Just 600 miles from our shores, political and economic instability in Haiti impacts our own economy and immigration levels, thereby making it our responsibility to work to ensure Haiti's long-term stability. The people of Haiti have long suffered through natural destruction, persistent poverty, and repressive regimes. It is now our moral obligation to help Haitians sustain and rebuild their country by granting Haitian nationals already residing in the United States TPS. In February of this year, President René Préval formally requested TPS. We ask that his request be given the same consideration that similarly situated nations have been given in the past and that you swiftly grant Haitians this vital, long-overdue assistance. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Kendrick B. Meek John Conyers Jr. Howard L. Berman Eliot L. Engel Charles B. Rangel Barbara Lee Maxine Waters Gregory W. Meeks Debbie Wasserman Schultz Donna F. Edwards William D. Delahunt Corrine Brown Yvette D. Clarke Janice D. Schakowsky Robert Wexler Sheila Jackson-Lee Edolphus Towns Donald M. Payne Ileana Ros-Lehtinen Micheal E. Capuano Raúl M. Grijalva James P. McGovern Luis V. Gutierrez Lucille Roybal-Allard José E. Serrano Albio Sires Dennis J. Kucinich Lincoln Diaz-Balart Mario Diaz-Balart Joseph Crowley Charles A. Gonzalez # # # #
09.29.2008	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) issued the following statement in response to the U.S. economic recovery package. Representative Hastings voted in favor on the package. "Republicans should be ashamed of themselves and their failure to protect the livelihoods of all Americans today. Rather than taking substantive action, they have retreated to partisan bickering and childish finger-pointing. "As we speak, the markets are spiraling out of control, Florida's pension system may be in jeopardy, seniors in our state have watched their retirement savings lose value every minute, and foreclosure rates are going through the roof. The only responsible thing for me to do today was to vote yes. Those who voted against this bill have done a great disservice to the American people and have pushed our economy into no-man's land where the potential for abject financial instability is very real. "The costs of this package were high, but the cost of allowing our financial markets to fail would be catastrophic. Sadly, it is not the Wall Street executives who will suffer in the event of a financial collapse, but it will be the average American citizen like those living in my Congressional District. "A tight or frozen credit market means that companies will not be able to make payroll, students will not be able to fund their college education, hard working citizens will not be able to find car or home loans, and our economy will come to a standstill. "This bill would have stemmed the tide of foreclosures. It would have protected community banks and credit unions - some of the top lenders to people living in my district. It would have ensured that minorities would continue to have fair and full access to small business loans. It would have protected renters who could become homeless if the owners of their property go into foreclosure. It cracked down on CEO severance packages and established oversight mechanisms needed to crack down on corporate greed and irresponsibility. And it ensured that financial institutions - not the American people - will bear the financial costs for failure. "From 2001 until Democrats regained control of Congress in 2007, Republicans stood by with the President and allowed Wall Street to go unchecked while the American people took it on the chin. Today, Republicans finished the job and added a Monday bookend to Black Friday when the stock market collapsed in 1929. My constituents have my word that I will do anything and everything to protect their homes, their jobs, and their livelihoods. "The fundamentals of our economy are not, as John McCain said, ‘strong.' Because Republicans refused to act today, we may soon find out how bad things really can get." ####
09.25.2008	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) applauded the House of Representatives for its plans today to consider H. Res. 1376, a resolution commemorating the 80th anniversary of the Okeechobee Hurricane. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) applauded the House of Representatives for its plans today to consider H. Res. 1376, a resolution commemorating the 80th anniversary of the Okeechobee Hurricane. The resolution was introduced by Representative Hastings and is expected to pass the House later this evening. Last week, communities throughout South Florida commemorated the 80th anniversary of the Okeechobee Hurricane, also known as Hurricane San Felipe Segundo, making landfall in Florida. The storm ravaged Florida, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, the Bahamas, and numerous islands of the Caribbean. "The experience of the Okeechobee Hurricane still touches the lives of so many of my constituents and people throughout Florida and the Caribbean," said Representative Hastings. "The House's consideration of this resolution today is both appropriate and timely." Representative Hastings' resolution pays appropriate tribute to the over 4,000 total lives that were lost from the storm. More than 3,000 people died in the U.S. alone, the 2nd largest death toll ever recorded by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). Approximately 75 percent of the 3,000 were migrant workers, the majority of whom were African American. The lack of capacity to respond to the storm and racial overtures of the era led to extensive disparities in the treatment of victims of the hurricane. Many African Americans were buried in poorly marked mass graves, including one site in West Palm Beach where over 670 unfortunate souls were laid to rest. Similar graves for white victims of the tragedy were visibly memorialized, whereas many African American graves were forgotten and only recognized many years later. "Neglecting these darker moments in our history can overlook important lessons, as we saw with the devastation of Hurricanes Katrina, Gustav, and most recently Ike," Representative Hastings continued. "Beyond just recognizing the victims of the Okeechobee Hurricane tragedy, their loss is a reminder of what can happen when there are injustices in disaster response and mitigation." The resolution also calls on the federal and state governments to make critical investments in disaster response and mitigation. It recognizes the Army Corps of Engineers for their efforts to repair the Herbert Hoover Dike. The Dike was built in the 1930s to protect the Lake Okeechobee communities that were destroyed in 1928. Representative Hastings has secured over $110 million to date for expedited repairs of the Dike. "Without continued help, these communities will be vulnerable to devastation from future storms," noted Representative Hastings. "Congress must do whatever it takes to ensure that the Herbert Hoover Dike and other vulnerable infrastructure in the country are up to date and safe for those living around them." # # # #
09.24.2008	Today, U.S. Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) and Kendrick B. Meek (D-Miami) applauded the inclusion of $100 million for hurricane relief and reconstruction assistance to Haiti and other Caribbean nations in H.R. 2638, the Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance and Continuing Appropriations Act, which funds the federal government through March 6, 2009. share: f t Today, U.S. Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) and Kendrick B. Meek (D-Miami) applauded the inclusion of $100 million for hurricane relief and reconstruction assistance to Haiti and other Caribbean nations in H.R. 2638, the Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance and Continuing Appropriations Act, which funds the federal government through March 6, 2009. The House of Representatives approved this bill earlier today. "Though this funding is only a small fraction of what will be necessary to rebuild this devastated nation, I am encouraged by this Congress' commitment to helping the Haitian people recover from the tragic events of this past month," Representative Hastings stated. "Haiti and the United States are inextricably tied by our geographic proximity and historical relationship. It is not only our country's moral obligation to help Haiti, but it is also in our own self-interest to ensure the long-term development of our Hemisphere's poorest country." "The US Congress and the American public stand shoulder to shoulder with the international community in providing needed humanitarian assistance to the Haitian people. This emergency funding is a good start for Haiti, but more needs to be done," said Representative Kendrick B. Meek. "Haitians ‘overqualify' for Temporary Protected Status and the drumbeat of support continues throughout the nation and in the halls of Congress to grant Haitians TPS." As Co-Chairmen of the Congressional Black Caucus' Haiti Working Group, Representatives Hastings and Meek have been leaders in the fight to increase U.S. assistance to Haiti and to end double-standard immigration policies by granting Temporary Protected Status to Haitians currently residing in the United States. They have worked with several Members of Congress, including Representatives John Conyers (D-MI), Yvette Clarke (D-NY), Charles Rangel (D-NY), Maxine Waters (D-CA), Eliot Engel (D-NY), and Barbara Lee (D-CA), to ensure that the United States provides sustained, responsible assistance to support Haiti's long-term recovery and redevelopment. # # # #
09.23.2008	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) is scheduled to testify today before the House Foreign Affairs Committee at a hearing entitled, "The Hurricanes in Haiti: Disaster and Recovery." The hearing will begin at 10:00 AM and be held in 2172 Rayburn House Office Building. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) is scheduled to testify today before the House Foreign Affairs Committee at a hearing entitled, "The Hurricanes in Haiti: Disaster and Recovery." The hearing will begin at 10:00 AM and be held in 2172 Rayburn House Office Building. Representative Hastings' testimony will focus on the absolute necessity to grant Haitians currently in the United States Temporary Protected Status (TPS). Representative Hastings introduced H.R. 522, the Haitian Protection Act, a bill with over 50 bipartisan cosponsors which would grant TPS to Haitians. A clear indication of the priority that he places on the issue, the bill was the first bill Representative Hastings introduced in the 110th Congress. A live webcast of the hearing can be viewed at http://www.foreignaffairs.house.gov/. Representative Hastings' prepared testimony which he submitted earlier this week to the Committee follows. Statement of Congressman Alcee L. Hastings Hearing on "The Hurricanes in Haiti: Disaster and Recovery" House Committee on Foreign Affairs, Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere September 23, 2008 Thank you, Chairman Engel and Representative Burton for holding this extremely important hearing today. I am honored to be here. As you well know, in less than a month's time, Haiti has been ravaged by not one, but four natural disasters. Roads and bridges have been wiped out, leaving many communities isolated and only accessible by air. Fields and crops have been flooded, obliterating the nation's meager domestic food supply. Over 850,000 individuals have been affected with 423 people reported dead, over 150,000 people internally displaced, and nearly 50,000 homes damaged or destroyed. It would take decades for a wealthier, more stable nation to recover from challenges similar to those facing Haiti. However, Haiti also lacks the physical and economic infrastructure necessary to protect its citizens from natural disasters. Any development efforts are further stunted by the constant crisis and turmoil affecting the nation. The tragedies of the last few weeks have shown us that by our refusal to take substantive action, we not only leave the Haitian government vulnerable to greater political instability but we also increase the likelihood of human and physical loss from the probable event of future natural disasters. I have long been an advocate for issues affecting Haitians, both in Haiti and in our own country. This past April, I offered an amendment to the Jubilee Act that unanimously passed the House of Representatives. My amendment called for the immediate cancellation of Haiti's international debt. I am also the author of H.R. 522, the Haitian Protection Act, a bill currently under consideration by the Judiciary Committee. This bill would direct the Secretary of Homeland Security to grant Haitian immigrants currently in the United States Temporary Protected Status (TPS). Though I believe passage of this legislation is imperative to Haiti's short and long-term stability, it must also be stressed that TPS is a designation the Administration can grant on its own prerogative without the direction of Congress. As Haiti's humanitarian crisis becomes increasingly dire and the nation's struggle for economic stability and sustainable development is further delayed, it is now more imperative than ever that the United States grant Haitian immigrants TPS. TPS is the least expensive, most immediate form of humanitarian assistance we can provide Haiti. It also allows the Haitian government to invest all of its limited resources in rebuilding and redevelopment. Under Section 244(A) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1990, TPS may be granted when any of the following conditions are met: there is ongoing armed conflict posing a serious threat to personal safety; it is requested by a foreign state that temporarily cannot handle the return of nationals due to environmental disaster; or when extraordinary and temporary conditions in a foreign state exist which prevent aliens from returning. Now, more than ever, Haiti meets all of these conditions. As Haiti's President René Préval explained in his February 2008 letter to President Bush formally requesting TPS, Haiti has long been victim to persistent poverty, political turmoil, and environmental destruction. The deportation of Haitian nationals in the United States only increases the burden on this small nation's already stressed economic and political system. TPS, granted for a designated period of time and subject to renewal, would halt deportations and grant work permits to most of the estimated 20,000 Haitians believed to be currently residing in the United States illegally so that they can legally contribute to Haiti's economic recovery. It is important to note that TPS would not, as some may suggest, lead to a mass influx of Haitian migrants. TPS only applies to individuals who arrive in the United States before the designated date. Perhaps most significantly, there was no major increase in immigration levels after the U.S. granted approximately 50,000 Haitians Deferred Enforced Departure (DED) in 1997 in anticipation of the passage of the Haitian Refugee Immigration Fairness Act of 1998. The United States has rightfully acknowledged and supported the efforts of other nations to return to a sense of normalcy by granting and extending their TPS. At the same time and under equally dire conditions, Haitian migrants have not received similar treatment. Just 600 miles from our shores, political and economic instability in Haiti impacts our own economy and immigration levels, thereby making it our responsibility to work to ensure Haiti's long-term stability. Haitians, both in Haiti and in our own country, have long suffered through natural destruction, persistent poverty, repressive regimes, and the inequitable policies of the Untied States. It is now our moral obligation to help Haitians sustain and rebuild their country by granting Haitian nationals already residing in the United States TPS. While I am encouraged by the United States' willingness to provide humanitarian aid to Haiti, emergency assistance will only go so far. Haiti needs a comprehensive, sustainable solution to put it on a path of long-term stability. I believe that TPS is a necessary part of that solution. Otherwise, we will be back here again, year after year, trying to pull Haiti out of another crisis. I commend you for your commitment to the Haitian people and thank you for bringing attention to this continuously struggling nation. I look forward to working with you on this very important matter. # # # #
09.19.2008	U.S. Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar), Kendrick B. Meek (D-Miami), Robert Wexler (D-Boca Raton), and Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Weston) issued the following statement today in response to the decision by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to suspend the deportation of Haitians initially scheduled for today. share: f t U.S. Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar), Kendrick B. Meek (D-Miami), Robert Wexler (D-Boca Raton), and Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Weston) issued the following statement today in response to the decision by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to suspend the deportation of Haitians initially scheduled for today. Members also expressed disappointment that deportations to Haiti are still being considered. "In the last month, Haiti has been ravaged by not one, but four natural disasters. Hundreds have died and thousands have been left homeless. Many cities are still entirely isolated and only accessible by air, and the country's fledgling agriculture industry has been obliterated by floods and mudslides. Haiti is certainly no stranger to crisis and despair. But at the present time, many deported Haitians simply have no communities to which to return. In light of all this, it would be particularly cruel for the Administration to continue deporting Haitians. "The events of this past week have shown us that it is time to change our nation's policies toward Haiti. We call on the President and the Secretary of Homeland Security to grant Haitians currently residing in the United States Temporary Protected Status. Haiti has long met the qualifications for TPS. But now, more than ever, it is our nation's moral obligation to do all we can to help our struggling neighbor." # # # #
09.16.2008	U.S. Representative and Democratic Co-Chairman of Florida's Congressional Delegation Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today called on House Republicans to end election year politicking and support the comprehensive American Energy Security and Consumer Protection Act. share: f t U.S. Representative and Democratic Co-Chairman of Florida's Congressional Delegation Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today called on House Republicans to end election year politicking and support the comprehensive American Energy Security and Consumer Protection Act. "This comprehensive energy bill is a clear change to Republicans' solitary drumbeat of their flawed energy policy to maintain our oil-consuming status quo," said Representative Hastings. "Instead of trying to score cheap political points, Democrats in Congress are paving the way forward with real solutions to relieve Americans' pain at the pump." The Comprehensive American Energy Security and Taxpayer Protection Act expands domestic and renewable sources of energy to increase America's national security. The bill ends subsidies to oil companies and promotes green job growth in America. Additionally, the bill invests royalties from oil companies in alternative energy technology, extends and expands tax incentives for renewable energy, and reduces transit fares for commuter rail and buses. Provisions in the bill would responsibly open up the Outer Continental Shelf for drilling with significant environmental protections while demanding that oil companies use the leases they have already been issued. This bill allows for safe and responsible drilling while investing in domestic alternative technologies and green jobs. In return for opening up more areas for drilling, the bill requires oil companies to pay American taxpayers royalties owed to them and ends subsidies to oil companies for drilling. "This bill provides long-term solutions to help us achieve real energy independence, strengthen our national security, and reduce global warming," Representative Hastings added. "It is the juice that we need to get our economy going again today and prepared us for the future." Under the agreement reached between Florida Democrats and House Leadership, the Comprehensive American Energy Security and Taxpayer Protection Act includes provisions maintaining a 2006 compromise protecting the Eastern Gulf of Mexico from offshore oil drilling. These limitations protect the military areas off the coast of Florida, as well as Florida's tourism and fishing industries. "I am pleased that this bill protects Florida's coast from expanded offshore oil drilling, much to the dismay of the oil men in the White House and corrupt Interior Department officials who were accepting gifts and favors from the oil companies they regulate," Representative Hastings continued. "Drilling off Florida's coast only further places our beaches at risk to oil spills that become more likely during hurricane season while contributing to global climate change. Although the struggle to maintain the existing protections for Florida's coast is far from over, I promise to be the last man standing in the fight to prevent expanded offshore oil drilling in Florida." # # # #
09.16.2008	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) today denounced a recent vote taken by the Iraqi Parliament suspending legal immunity for Parliamentarian Mithal Alusi and forbidding him from traveling outside of Iraq and attending parliamentary sessions because of his recent trip to Israel to participate in an international counterterrorism conference. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) today denounced a recent vote taken by the Iraqi Parliament suspending legal immunity for Parliamentarian Mithal Alusi and forbidding him from traveling outside of Iraq and attending parliamentary sessions because of his recent trip to Israel to participate in an international counterterrorism conference. In a letter to Speaker of the Iraqi Parliament Mahmoud Al-Mashhadani, Representatives Hastings, Janice D. Schakowsky (D-IL) and Shelley Berkeley (D-NV) urged the Iraqi Parliament to overturn its discriminatory laws against Israel and pursue diplomacy with its Middle East neighbor. "The United States stands with Iraq in its pursuit of democracy and security against extremists within its borders and throughout the world. It makes zero sense how Iraq can claim advancements in democracy while it maintains its regressive discriminatory laws against Israel. It is all the more appalling that the Iraqi Parliament has chosen to rebuke a member of its legislature for working to advance peace with other Democratic nations in the region," declared Representative Hastings. "Iraq does a disservice to itself by refusing to establish diplomatic ties between the two countries that could promote stability in the Middle East region. I urge Speaker Al-Mashhadani to reinstate Mr. Alusi's legal immunity and commit to pursuing a diplomatic path that recognizes the existence of all nations in the region, including Israel." In June 2008, Representative Hastings introduced H. Res.1249, a resolution which urges the Government of Iraq to recognize the right of Israel to exist and to establish diplomatic relations with Israel. This bipartisan resolution has 59 cosponsors, including Representatives Schakowsky and Berkley. The full text of the letter follows. September 16, 2008 The Honorable Mahmoud Al-Mashhadani Speaker Iraqi Parliament Dear Speaker Al-Mashhadani: We write with grave concern regarding recent reports that the Iraqi Parliament has voted to suspend legal immunity for your colleague Mr. Mithal Alusi and to forbid him from traveling outside of Iraq and attending parliamentary sessions because of his recent trip to Israel to participate in an international counterterrorism conference. It is shameful that a Member of the legislature should be chastised for working to advance peace with other Democratic nations in the region. We strongly urge you to reinstate Mr. Alusi's legal immunity and to ease all restrictions that have been placed on him. The United States and Iraq are steadfast diplomatic and security partners. We continue to work collaboratively to fight extremism in Iraq and around the region. In an effort to strengthen the existing relations between our two governments, we urge you to overturn the discriminatory laws that declare Israel an enemy of state and to pursue a diplomatic path that recognizes the existence of all nations in the region, including Israel. At the very least, we urge you to reconsider penalizing Iraqi legislators for engaging in diplomatic activities aimed at strengthening Iraq's global partnerships to counter terrorism and collaborate on issues of mutual interest. We believe that your government does a discredit to itself and its opportunity to develop and grow by refusing to establish relations with Israel. The Israeli people's innovation and drive could spur similar advancements in your country and help Iraq's economy flourish. Diplomatic ties between the two countries could promote security and stability in the Middle East region. We encourage you to work with Israel and the United States in fighting the spread of extremism and terrorism throughout the world. Thank you for your attention to this urgent matter. We look forward to your timely response and working with you on this issue and other issues of mutual concern. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings, MC Janice D. Schakowsky, MC Shelley Berkley, MC # # # #
09.16.2008	U.S. Representative and Democratic Co-Chairman of Florida's Congressional Delegation Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) and U.S. Representative Allen Boyd (D-North Florida) released the following statement today in response to the letter they received from Florida Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) Secretary Michael W. Sole. share: f t U.S. Representative and Democratic Co-Chairman of Florida's Congressional Delegation Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) and U.S. Representative Allen Boyd (D-North Florida) released the following statement today in response to the letter they received from Florida Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) Secretary Michael W. Sole. Secretary Sole's letter is in response to Representatives Hastings and Boyd's July 31 letter outlining four pages worth of questions about on-going negotiations. "We are grateful for the thorough response provided by Florida Department of Environmental Protection Secretary Sole to our July 31 letter regarding the proposed land acquisition deal. "We are pleased that the State has promised to markedly increase the transparency of the land deal negotiations and promote stronger cooperation with its federal partner and the Glades communities. We are hopeful that these promises will be fulfilled. "Recent reports have indicated that negotiations will likely be delayed until early 2009. We are troubled that the State did not notify us of this delay and encourage the State to keep us abreast of all future postponements. We hope that this extra time will allow us to learn more details of the plan, including the cost, design, and footprint of the land. We are concerned that these important details remain in question. Further, we are uneasy over the lack of certainty regarding how the deal impacts construction and financing of critical Everglades restoration projects. We are committed to ensuring that the land acquisition deal does not prevent timely federal funding of these projects. "We also would like to emphasize the significant and ongoing impact that this deal will have on communities in the region. To that end, for the good of all people involved in this deal, we encourage the State to make every effort to keep the public and Members of Congress apprised of future developments in a timely manner. As negotiations continue, the State must be vigilant in assessing the effects of the land acquisition deal on the people in the area and the entire State of Florida." ####
09.12.2008	U.S. Representative and Democratic Co-Chairman of Florida's Congressional Delegation Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) announced today that the Florida Congressional Democratic Delegation successfully reached an agreement with House Leadership that will protect Florida's coast from expanded offshore drilling. share: f t U.S. Representative and Democratic Co-Chairman of Florida's Congressional Delegation Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) announced today that the Florida Congressional Democratic Delegation successfully reached an agreement with House Leadership that will protect Florida's coast from expanded offshore drilling. Following a meeting of Members and staff on Tuesday arranged by Representative Hastings, the delegation met twice yesterday with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi to discuss the issue directly. An agreement was reached and confirmed earlier today. "I am very pleased that the unified Florida Democratic Delegation was able to stand up for Florida and protect its coast from expanded offshore drilling. Florida Democrats today successfully preserved the state's $65-billion-a-year industry as well as its beaches, coastal waters, fisheries and wildlife from potential catastrophic oil spills," said Representative Hastings. "In 2006, the House and Senate reached a carefully crafted bipartisan compromise. I am thankful that Speaker Nancy Pelosi honored her promise to protect this agreement and not overturn existing law." Under the agreement reached between Florida Democrats and House Leadership, The Comprehensive American Energy Security and Taxpayer Protection Act, which is scheduled to be considered by the House next week, will include provisions reinforcing a 2006 compromise protecting the eastern Gulf of Mexico from offshore oil drilling. The 2006 law prohibited drilling off of Florida's west coast within a 125-mile buffer until 2022 while making over 8 million additional acres outside of the buffer available for drilling. The law also prohibited oil and natural gas leases in any area east of the Military Mission Line also through 2022. "By thwarting efforts to expand drilling off of Florida's coast, we have prevented further giveaways to the oil men in the White House and corrupt Interior Department officials - some of whom are under investigation for being in bed with the oil industry," Representative Hastings continued. "As the struggle to maintain the existing protections for Florida's coast is far from over, I promise to be the last man standing in the fight to prevent expanded offshore oil drilling in Florida." The Comprehensive American Energy Security and Taxpayer Protection Act will expand domestic and renewable sources of energy to increase our national security. The bill ends subsidies to oil companies and promotes green job growth in America. Additionally, the bill invests royalties from oil companies in alternative energy technology; extends and expands tax incentives for renewable electricity, solar and wind energy, and fuel; reduces transit fares for commuter rail and buses; and requires 15% of American electricity to come from renewable energy. Provisions in the bill would responsibly open up the Outer Continental Shelf for drilling with significant environmental protections while demanding that oil companies use the leases they have already been issued. # # # #
08.29.2008	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today again urged President George W. Bush to assist in Haiti's recovery from Tropical Storm Fay and Hurricane Gustav by granting Haitian immigrants currently residing in the United States Temporary Protected Status (TPS). share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today again urged President George W. Bush to assist in Haiti's recovery from Tropical Storm Fay and Hurricane Gustav by granting Haitian immigrants currently residing in the United States Temporary Protected Status (TPS). "The people of Haiti have long been victimized by our nation's double standard immigration policies. The two back-to-back natural disasters that have recently ravaged this already struggling nation only emphasize the need for TPS," Representative Hastings stated. "Haiti can hardly sustain the lives of those currently living within its borders. How can we also expect it to contend with the repatriation of the very people who left Haiti in desperation and who, through remittances, can aide in the nation's recovery efforts?" Under Section 244(A) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1990, TPS may be granted when there is ongoing armed conflict posing serious threat to personal safety; it is requested by a foreign state that temporarily cannot handle the return of nationals due to environmental disaster; or extraordinary and temporary conditions in a foreign state prevent aliens from returning. Haiti meets all of these requirements. TPS designation temporarily halts deportation and grants permission to work, enabling Haitians currently in the United States to legally work and contribute to their country's recovery. Representative Hastings is a leader in the fight to end double-standard immigration practices as they pertain to Haitian migrants. He is the author of H.R. 522, the Haitian Protection Act, legislation which would designate Haitian nationals in the United States as eligible for TPS. Representative Hastings has been calling for the extension of TPS to Haitian nationals for years and has been continuously engaged in correspondence with the Bush Administration on this matter. This is Representative Hastings' sixth letter to President Bush regarding TPS since the beginning of the 110th Congress in 2007. The text of Representative Hastings' letter follows. August 29, 2008 The Honorable George W. Bush President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: In light of the recent environmental and economic devastation that Tropical Storm Fay and Hurricane Gustav have ravaged upon the nation of Haiti, I write once again to urge you to grant Haitians residing in the United States Temporary Protected Status (TPS). As you know, TPS may be granted when any of the following conditions are met: there is ongoing armed conflict posing a serious threat to personal safety; it is requested by a foreign state that temporarily cannot handle the return of nationals due to environmental disaster; or when extraordinary and temporary conditions in a foreign state exist which prevent aliens from returning. Now, more than ever, Haiti continues to meet all of the requirements for TPS. Already in the midst of a devastating food crisis that sparked deadly riots and led to the removal of its Prime Minister, Haiti has now suffered through two natural disasters within a span of only a few days. Tropical Storm Fay took dozens of lives, damaged countless homes, and flooded and destroyed many of Haiti's few profitable rice fields and plantain crops. Little more than a week later, Hurricane Gustav made landfall with 90 mph winds and caused floods and mudslides that forced hundreds of people from their homes and took the lives of more than 50 individuals. It would take decades for a wealthier, more stable nation to recover from challenges similar to those facing Haiti. However, Haiti also lacks the physical and economic infrastructure necessary to protect its citizens from natural disasters, and any development efforts are further stunted by the constant crisis and turmoil affecting the nation. The tragedies of these past two weeks have shown us that by our refusal to take substantive action, we not only leave the Haitian government vulnerable to greater political instability but we also increase the likelihood of human and physical loss from the probable event of future natural disasters. As Haiti's humanitarian crisis becomes increasingly dire and the nation's struggle for economic stability and sustainable development is further delayed, it is now more imperative than ever that the United States grant Haitian immigrants TPS. TPS is the least expensive, most immediate form of humanitarian assistance we can provide Haiti, and it allows the Haitian government to invest all of its limited resources in the rebuilding and redevelopment of its struggling economy. These recent events have already forced Haitian President René Préval to postpone the installment of a new Prime Minister. How volatile must the political and economic situation in Haiti become before the United States is willing to take adequate action? Just 600 miles from our shores, political and economic instability in Haiti impacts our own economy and immigration levels, thereby making it our responsibility to work to ensure Haiti's long-term stability. Haitians, both in Haiti and in our own country, have long suffered through natural destruction, persistent poverty, repressive regimes, and the inequitable policies of the Untied States. It is now our moral obligation to help Haitians sustain and rebuild their country by granting Haitian nationals already residing in the United States TPS. I once again respectfully request that you grant Haitians TPS and urge you to allow Haitians the same consideration and protection that you, as well as previous administrations, have supported for other deserving nations in similar circumstances. If you continue to believe that Haiti still does not merit this designation, then I request a detailed explanation as to why. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress
08.25.2008	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) expressed his "absolute dismay" today about the lack of available emergency housing for Tropical Storm Fay victims who have lost their homes or will lose their homes due to the storm and ensuing floods. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) expressed his "absolute dismay" today about the lack of available emergency housing for Tropical Storm Fay victims who have lost their homes or will lose their homes due to the storm and ensuing floods. In a letter to Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Director David Paulison, Representative Hastings noted that there are several hundred trailers sitting in a staging ground in St. Lucie County but can not be used by FEMA because of concerns over the possible presence of formaldehyde in the trailers. He also raised serious questions regarding the absence of a concrete plan for FEMA to meet the housing needs of disaster victims. "Florida knew back in 2004 and 2005 that FEMA doesn't have an emergency housing plan in place for victims of natural disasters. The rest of the country saw it during Katrina and Rita. Now, it's 2008 and they still don't have a plan," said Representative Hastings. "How many disasters is it going to take before FEMA gets its act in gear? How many people are going to have to lose their homes before emergency housing becomes a priority for FEMA?" Representative Hastings and others in Florida's Congressional Delegation have been calling on FEMA since 2005 to develop a long-term plan to meet emergency housing needs following natural disasters. Most recently, he chaired a Florida Delegation meeting this spring with FEMA and Florida's Office of Emergency Preparedness on disaster preparedness and has written extensively to FEMA Administrator David Paulison requesting detailed information about FEMA's disaster (June 2008 and August 2007). Representative Hastings also introduced the National Emergency Centers Establishment Act in March 2007 which would provide temporary housing, medical, education, and humanitarian assistance to individuals and families displaced due to a national emergency. The full text of Representative Hastings' letter follows. August 25, 2008 The Honorable R. David Paulison Administrator Federal Emergency Management Agency 500 C Street, Southwest Washington, D.C. 20472 Dear Administrator Paulison: I write to express my absolute dismay about the lack of available safe emergency housing used by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for disaster victims of Tropical Storm Fay. Fay has already caused historic flooding, sustained storm force winds, tornadoes and excessive rainfall across the state of Florida, and has proven particularly devastating for the district which I am privileged to serve. As Fay continues to cause widespread damage and the impact of the storm is fully realized, I seek information regarding FEMA's emergency housing plan for my disaster-stricken constituents. I support FEMA's decision to temporarily suspend the use of recreational vehicles for emergency housing in response to health concerns raised by the presence of formaldehyde in disaster victims' vehicles. Additionally, I was pleased to learn that FEMA has created new standards for acceptable levels of formaldehyde for mobile homes and park models and developed new testing requirements for traces of formaldehyde before use in future disasters. However, while I understand that the trailers would be an option of last resort, I remain concerned that there are currently no safe or feasible emergency housing options to large numbers of people in Florida. It is my understanding that there are several hundred FEMA travel trailers and mobile homes sitting in a staging ground in St. Lucie County, none of which can be used because of health concerns over potential traces of formaldehyde. As Fay continues to wreak havoc, what is FEMA's plan for victims of Tropical Storm Fay who have already lost their homes or who may lose their home due to mold and deterioration from the floods? Even more, what are the Agency's plans for future storms and why did FEMA not have a concrete emergency housing plan in place before hurricane season began? The lack of available federal emergency housing options in Florida and throughout the country is an issue I have raised since the 2004 and 2005 hurricane seasons - and especially following Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Hurricane experts are now predicting two additional storms forming in the Caribbean Sea and Atlantic Ocean. I request that FEMA provide me with a copy of its emergency housing plan in place to respond to Tropical Storm Fay and future disasters. I also ask for additional details regarding emergency housing alternatives to travel trailers that are safe and affordable. Thank you for your attention to this critical matter. I look forward to your expeditious response. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress # # # #
08.22.2008	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today affirmed that the existing and future damage caused by Tropical Storm Fay necessitates federal disaster assistance. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today affirmed that the existing and future damage caused by Tropical Storm Fay necessitates federal disaster assistance. In a letter to President Bush, he expressed support for the request made yesterday by Governor Crist for an emergency declaration for the State of Florida in response to Tropical Storm Fay. The letter also endorsed Crist's request for Public Assistance including direct Federal assistance for all counties in Florida. "Tropical Storm Fay has wreaked oppressive destruction and devastation on the people throughout my district and the State of Florida. The storm's unprecedented flooding, storm force winds and tornadoes have already devastated homes and businesses and presented huge losses to our agricultural and tourist industries. This is too big a burden for our state to have to shoulder alone. "As Fay has zigzagged across Florida, it has brutally hit those ill-able to afford such extensive damage. The $1.5 million in destruction caused to the city of Pahokee alone, is devastating to a community of 6,600 already struggling financially. "Governor Crist has appropriately urged President Bush to issue an emergency declaration in response to this storm. I stand with the Governor in strong support of vital federal aid to help my constituents cope with the existing threats posed to their lives and property, and for future recovery efforts from this horrific storm. I urge President Bush to immediately issue the necessary emergency declarations." The text of Representative Hastings' letter follows. August 21, 2008 The Honorable George W. Bush President The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: I write in strong support of Governor Crist's request for an emergency declaration for the State of Florida in response to Tropical Storm Fay, and specifically for his request for Public Assistance (Categories A & B) including direct Federal assistance for all counties in Florida. Federal assistance is needed at this time to help my district and other affected areas of the State address the existing needs of their residents including threats to public health and property, mitigate future damage and recover from this horrific storm. Tropical Storm Fay has already caused historic flooding, sustained storm force winds, tornadoes and excessive rainfall across the State of Florida, impacting every county which I am privileged to serve. In Hendry and other counties, Fay has already resulted in considerable agricultural damage to sugar cane growers. Fay has also produced significant beach erosion, including along the coasts of Palm Beach, Broward, Martin and St. Lucie counties. While Tropical Storm Fay has brought destruction and damaged the homes, businesses and government buildings of many Floridians, some of the most impoverished residents of South Florida were hit the hardest. Fay is estimated to have caused an estimated $1.5 million in damage in the town of Pahokee, mostly to the city hall and sewer systems. For a city already straining financially, this additional burden resulting for Tropical Storm Fay will likely be devastating. Damage caused by the hurricane intense winds, heavy rains, tornadoes and possible flooding resulting from Tropical Storm Fay is apt to continue to be extensive. According to the National Weather Service, Tropical Storm Fay has dumped more rain on Florida than Hurricanes Jeanne and Frances in 2004 combined. In the next few days, Tropical Storm Fay is projected to intensify as it moves over the Atlantic Ocean and makes a third landfall in Northwest Florida. In light of the existing damage now occurring and the damage expected to occur in the future across Florida due to Tropical Storm Fay, I urge you to immediately issue the necessary emergency declarations. Thank you in advance for your consideration of this request. I look forward to your expeditious response. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress ####
08.20.2008	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) urged a renewed focus on the status of Gilad Shalit, an Israeli soldier captured over two years ago by the terrorist organization, Hamas. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) urged a renewed focus on the status of Gilad Shalit, an Israeli soldier captured over two years ago by the terrorist organization, Hamas. In a letter to the American Red Cross, he encouraged the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) and the American Red Cross to continue to work to verify the soldier's status and to achieve his immediate and safe return. Canadian Senator Jerry S. Grafstein has sent a similar letter. "Every passing day without knowledge of Gilad Shalit's condition becomes increasingly difficult for his family and Israel. I urge the ICRC and the American Red Cross to revive their efforts to ensure his humane treatment while in captivity. As long as Gilad Shalit is held hostage, these premier humanitarian organizations have an obligation to work for his safe return," said Representative Hastings. Israeli soldier, Gilad Shalit, was kidnapped by Hamas on June 25, 2006. Hamas has not given any indication as to whether Shalit is injured or even still alive. On July 16, 2008 the bodies of two Israeli soldiers, Eldad Regev and Ehud Goldwasser, who were abducted by Hezbollah over two years ago as well, were returned as part of a prisoner swap. "The United States stands with Israel and the families in mourning the Israeli soldiers' whose bodies were recently returned to Israel. The return of Regev and Goldwasser's bodies reinforces Israel and the United States' desire to obtain more complete information on Shalit's current condition. "Gilad Shalit remains at the forefront of our collective memory. For over two years, this brave soldier has been held in captivity without medical attention and without communication or access to his loved ones. I encourage the ICRC and the American Red Cross to do everything in their power to encourage his expeditious and safe return to Israel and his family." Congressman Hastings' letter follows a July 29, 2006 letter he wrote to American Red Cross Interim President Jack McGuire urging the American Red Cross to apply pressure to the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) to look into the well-being of the three captured Israeli soldiers kidnapped by Hamas and Hezbollah in the summer of 2006. Senator Jerry Grafstein also wrote a similar letter at that time. The text of Representative Hastings' letter follows. Mr. Jack McGuire CEO of the American Red Cross American Red Cross National Headquarters 2025 E. St. N.W. Washington, D.C. 20006 August 20, 2008 Dear Mr. McGuire: I write in follow-up to my letter of July 28, 2006 requesting that the American Red Cross apply pressure to the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) to visit the three Israeli soldiers kidnapped by Hamas and Hezbollah in the summer of 2006. This letter follows the recent return of two of the Israeli soldiers' bodies, Eldad Regev and Ehud Goldwasser, who were abducted by Hezbollah over two years ago and were returned as part of a prisoner swap this July. I deeply appreciate the ICRC's previous efforts to gain access to Regev and Goldwasser and to Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit, who was abducted by the terrorist organization Hamas in June 2006. In a statement made last May, Béatrice Mégevand-Roggo, the ICRC's head of operations for the Middle East and North Africa, stated that since the soldiers' abduction in 2006, the ICRC has "repeatedly called on those holding them to treat them humanely. Time and again we have demanded to be able to visit them, or at least to obtain a sign that they are alive, and have reminded their captors of their moral and legal obligations." I also commend the ICRC for its efforts to maintain regular contact with the soldiers' families and relevant authorities regarding any pertinent actions the ICRC has taken. However, as long as Gilad Shalit remains in captivity, the ICRC and the Red Cross have an obligation to ensure his humane treatment and safe return. As a leading neutral international humanitarian organization, the ICRC is aware that Article Three of the Geneva Convention relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War, binds Hamas to comply with an impartial humanitarian body. Again, I appreciate the ICRC's effort to date and respectfully request further information regarding the recent steps the ICRC has taken to engage Hamas to ensure Gilad Shalit's humane treatment, including the right to correspond with his family, according to International Law, as well the ICRC's efforts to return Gilad Shalit home safely. While I understand the difficulties the ICRC has in obtaining access to persons captured that are involved in an armed conflict, I urge the American Red Cross to do everything possible to encourage the ICRC to continue to verify the status of Gilad Shalit and work to achieve his immediate and safe return. On July 22, United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon expressed his hope that Gilad Shalit will be released soon. I reiterate his wish that Shalit will soon be returned to his family and his country alive and well. The recent return of Regev and Goldwasser, reinforces Israel and the United States' desire to obtain more complete information on Shalit's current condition and to ensure his expeditious and safe return to Israel and his family. I encourage the American Red Cross to do everything it can to support the ICRC in this regard and to continue to fulfill its humanitarian duty. I look forward to your timely response. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress # # # #
08.18.2008	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today released the following statement regarding the passing of Mrs. Leola McCoy, a tireless environmental justice and civic activist on behalf of the Fort Lauderdale community. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today released the following statement regarding the passing of Mrs. Leola McCoy, a tireless environmental justice and civic activist on behalf of the Fort Lauderdale community. Mrs. McCoy is renowned for her advocacy work to clean up and investigate the chemical and carcinogenic impacts produced by the Wingate Superfund landfill site in Fort Lauderdale. Mrs. McCoy is also known for her efforts to encourage the cleanup and to demand health studies in the neighborhoods surrounding Lincoln Park on Sistrunk Boulevard, where a former incinerator and ash-dumping site is located and of Sunland Park Elementary School, which officials found posed several serious health threats to the community, including mold problems and potentially contaminated water. "I am deeply saddened by the passing of my good friend and fellow environmental justice activist, Mrs. Leola McCoy. "This Country, the State of Florida and the City of Fort Lauderdale have lost a true champion of environmental justice. She was my friend, my critic, and one of the most intelligent activists in our community. She might best be described as the 'people's warrior.' "I offer my sincerest condolences to Mrs. McCoy's family; my thoughts and prayers are with them. She will be desperately missed." Mrs. Leola McCoy, a sixth-generation Floridian, began a lifetime career in community activism in 1963 registering voters. In 1968, Mrs. McCoy was the first black woman in the State elected as secretary to the chairman of the Broward County Democratic Party. Last year, Mrs. McCoy was granted an honorary law degree from the Shepard Broad Law Center at Nova Southeastern University. She was the first non-lawyer to receive such recognition. # # # #
07.31.2008	The U.S. House of Representatives late today passed the Path to Success Act, a bill introduced by U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar), which promotes a community-centered approach to deterring gang violence and reducing recidivism rates among juvenile ex-offenders. share: f t The U.S. House of Representatives late today passed the Path to Success Act, a bill introduced by U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar), which promotes a community-centered approach to deterring gang violence and reducing recidivism rates among juvenile ex-offenders. The bill was included in the final Conference Report for H.R. 4137, the College Opportunity and Affordability Act. "Gang violence is a cycle that poisons many of our districts and deprives our youth from pursuing productive educational opportunities," Representative Hastings said. "Many who have been engaged in gang activity unfortunately return to the same streets after they served time in our juvenile justice system, and the cycle begins again. I am pleased that the Higher Education Reauthorization Conference Report includes my legislation which will give former juvenile gang members hope that there options available to then other than a life of crime." The Path to Success Act authorizes the Secretary of Education to award grants to community colleges that agree to enter into and maintain partnerships with juvenile detention centers. These partnerships would provide youths who have been incarcerated for gang-related crimes with a supportive learning environment where they can attain the marketable skills and credentials needed for a constructive re-entry into society. The bill establishes a program for community colleges to engage law enforcement and community partners in intervention strategies to divert at-risk youth from crime by providing counseling, academic or vocational training, and professional development to eligible participants enrolled in the program. "Through these opportunities at community colleges, as well as partnerships with law enforcement for proactive gang prevention efforts, the Path to Success program will give former gang members hope for the future while taking juvenile justice in a new direction," noted Representative Hastings. "Only holistic partnerships that engage entire communities are going to break the cycle of gang activity." Representative Hastings introduced H.R. 3168, the Path to Success Act, in July 2007. He offered this bill as an amendment to the College Opportunity and Affordability Act in February 2008 with U.S. Representative Linda T. Sánchez (D-CA). # # # #
07.29.2008	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) reacted today to the historic consideration by the U.S. House of Representatives of House Resolution 194, a resolution apologizing to African Americans for the "fundamental injustice, cruelty, brutality, and inhumanity of slavery and Jim Crow." share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) reacted today to the historic consideration by the U.S. House of Representatives of House Resolution 194, a resolution apologizing to African Americans for the "fundamental injustice, cruelty, brutality, and inhumanity of slavery and Jim Crow." The resolution is expected to overwhelmingly pass the House later this evening. Representative Hastings' statement on the resolution follows. "This is a significant moment in our nation's history when the nearly 20-year fight to consider federal legislation that apologizes for slavery has at last become a reality. Indeed, it is fitting that we consider legislation of this content and caliber at this time. A global trend has emerged within the 21st Century in which governments have apologized for slavery and discriminatory laws and promised to work toward a better future. "Within the past year, states that were once members of the former Confederacy and were a cesspool for racist and bigoted laws and practices did something that no state had done before: they apologized for the enslavement of black people in this country. More than 240 years after the abolition of slavery and more than four decades after the abolition of Jim Crow, it is time for the federal government to do the same. "In 1988, Congress apologized to Japanese-Americans for holding them in concentration camps during World War II. Congress expressed regret for its policies on Hawaii a century after the native Hawaiian kingdom was overthrown. And just five years ago, the Senate apologized for not enacting anti-lynching legislation that would have saved the lives of thousands of black people across the South. "America's greatness is exemplified in part by our ability to evolve. Under federal and state laws and customs, African Americans were denied their fundamental fights from 1619 until 1965. Today, we show our growth by officially acknowledging the wrongful actions and policies that were targeted toward African-Americans during slavery and Jim Crow. "Sadly, there are some who continue to oppose Congress apologizing for slavery and segregation. They see apologizing as a futile action that is too little too late. Others contend that an official apology would do more harm that good and would conjure painful images from the past that would fuel resentment. These assertions miss the point. "Failure to pass this resolution that acknowledges the wrongness of slavery and segregation would send the dangerous message that America is unwilling to come to terms with one of the first and last great atrocities that it placed on its citizens through the rule of law. Slavery and racial segregation were permitted through federal law, and our government must express the appropriate and long-overdue remorse for its tolerance of this injustice. "As we all know, words matter. ‘All men are created equal,' is perhaps one of the most famous phrases in American history. In our nation's infancy, this statement encompassed the principles of a country that promised to protect the freedom and well-being of its new citizens. Yet it was written when hundreds of thousands of black men, women and children were enslaved and counted as only 3/5 of a person under the Constitution. Nevertheless, President Abraham Lincoln later used this phrase to argue that the institution of slavery contradicted our nation's most fundamental values. This statement proved that America had the potential and duty to become a fairer and more equal nation. "As we all know, the legal abolishment of slavery did not translate into the end of racial inequality. Equally, the legal abolishment of Jim Crow has not translated into the elimination of disparities. The reality is that although the men, women and children who were enslaved in this country are long gone, the wealth, culture, and even the Congressional buildings that they helped construct remain. "Indeed, in the years following Jim Crow, blacks have undoubtedly taken advantage of increased opportunities and have achieved in every imaginable sector. The United States has also made serious improvements in drafting and implementing policies that encourage equality. However, it would be wrong to conclude that these successes negate the fact that 346 years of oppression have contributed to the economic and health disparities that continue to affect much of the black community. "On this historic day, we must recommit ourselves to bringing about an end to these disparities and injustices. And in passing this resolution, the House will send a message to the American people and others that the most powerful nation in the world is willing to look honestly at some of the most shameful parts of its history, accept responsibility, and apologize for its actions. Together, we will continue to lay the necessary foundation to build a stronger future." # # # #
07.24.2008	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today introduced a resolution commemorating the 80th Anniversary of the Okeechobee Hurricane, which claimed more than 4,000 lives in Florida, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, the Bahamas and other islands of the Caribbean. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today introduced a resolution commemorating the 80th Anniversary of the Okeechobee Hurricane, which claimed more than 4,000 lives in Florida, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, the Bahamas and other islands of the Caribbean. "The Okeechobee Hurricane goes down as one of - if not the - most tragic event in the history of Florida. The lack of capacity to respond to the devastation of the storm coupled with the racial overtures of the era led to extensive disparities in the treatment of victims of this hurricane," Representative Hastings stated. "When considering the development of a community, neglecting these darker moments of our history can overlook important lessons, as we saw with the devastation of Hurricane Katrina. Beyond recognition for all victims of the Okeechobee Hurricane tragedy, their loss serves as a constant reminder of our responsibility to prevent future injustices in disaster response and mitigation." Making landfall in the U.S. on the shores of West Palm Beach on September 16, 1928, the Okeechobee Hurricane caused over $16 billion in damages to the infrastructure and towns of western Palm Beach County alone (in today's figures). Approximately 75 percent of the more than 4,000 people who died in the continental United States were migrant workers, the overwhelming majority of whom were African American. A clear indication of the racial disparities among the victims of the Okeechobee Hurricane, a segregated mass grave in West Palm Beach contained the remains of over 670 African Americans who perished during the storm. In addition to recognizing the victims and disparities of the time, Representative Hastings' resolution also calls for the expedited repairs of the Herbert Hoover Dike surrounding Lake Okeechobee as well as support for education initiatives to improve hurricane preparedness among migrant and economically disadvantaged communities. "If we have learned anything in the past 80 years, and especially in the last 4, it is that it is absolutely vital that we learn from the past and invest in strengthening our vulnerable water management infrastructure to prevent future tragic losses," Representative Hastings noted. "Too much is at stake for us to do so little." Original cosponsors of the resolution include: U.S. Representatives Donna Christensen (Virgin Islands), Ron Klein (FL), Tim Mahoney (FL), Kendrick Meek (FL), Adam Putnam (FL), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL), and Robert Wexler (FL). # # # #
07.18.2008	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) and a group of 6 other Members of Congress yesterday reintroduced a resolution to promote fair housing and access to homeownership opportunities. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) and a group of 6 other Members of Congress yesterday reintroduced a resolution to promote fair housing and access to homeownership opportunities. "Too many people are finding it increasingly difficult to achieve the American Dream of homeownership which was beyond reach even before the emergence of our current foreclosure crisis," remarked Representative Hastings today. "This resolution recognizes how important the establishment homeownership programs and fair lending and housing laws have been to equalizing access to homeownership for all Americans." Representative Hastings' resolution recognizes the role of homeownership in allowing American families to achieve homeownership and promotes fair housing advocacy efforts which support the goal of increased homeownership. The resolution also recognizes the importance of fair housing laws that combat discrimination in housing, as well as commends initiatives that promote housing among populations experiencing homeownership disparities. Several initiatives recognized include the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute and the National Coalition for Asian Pacific American Community Development. "Eliminating the disparities in homeownership rates between white families and minority families continues to be a goal of critical importance," Representative Hastings added. "With almost 4 million fair housing violations occurring annually, we must continue to support efforts aimed at ensuring that all Americans have the opportunity to own a home." Original cosponsors of the resolution include U.S. Representatives Kendrick Meek (FL), Congressional Black Caucus Chairwoman Carolyn Kilpatrick (MI), Sanford Bishop (GA), Artur Davis (AL), Al Green (TX), and Carolyn Maloney (NY). The Hastings Fair House Resolution has been endorsed by the National Fair Housing Alliance, Fair Housing Center of the Greater Palm Beaches, and the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation. ####
07.17.2008	U.S. Representative and Democratic Co-Chairman of Florida's Congressional Delegation Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today blasted House Republicans for blocking passage of energy legislation to increase domestic oil supplies. share: f t U.S. Representative and Democratic Co-Chairman of Florida's Congressional Delegation Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today blasted House Republicans for blocking passage of energy legislation to increase domestic oil supplies. Republicans overwhelmingly voted against H.R. 6515, the DRILL Act, a bill promoting the responsible domestic production of oil and natural gas. The DRILL Act would also increase domestic oil supply by incorporating the ‘Use It or Lose It' legislation, which requires oil producers to drill on the 68 million acres of land where oil companies already have leases or be forced to relinquish the leases so other companies can produce the oil there, including in 20 million acres of the National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska. "For weeks Republicans have been whining that drilling for oil is the magic bullet to solving our energy crisis. Now, when Democrats bring up legislation to drill in areas that would double our oil production, they reject the idea of drilling. We have 68 million acres of federal land that oil companies are warehousing and doing nothing. Why are on Earth are Republicans preventing us from drilling there," asked Representative Hastings. "Instead of proposing practicable alternatives to help our nation reduce our dependence on foreign oil and find relief at the pump, it's obvious that Republicans are only out to score cheap political points. At the expense of working families, they are willing to give away the store and more to the two oil men in the White House and their big oil industry campaign donors." Earlier this week, President Bush reneged on his campaign promise to protect Florida's coasts from offshore drilling and lifted the Executive Moratorium prohibiting drilling for oil on the Outer Continental Shelf. Representative Hastings has vowed to be the "last man standing" in fighting to stop offshore oil drilling in Florida. "When President Bush took office in 2001 he promised to reduce the cost of gas. At the time, gas was $1.45 per gallon. Today, gas is $4.10 per gallon. Do the math. The President and Republicans have almost tripled gas prices and now are not willing to support initiatives to bring these prices down," said Representative Hastings. "It disturbs me that Republicans would advocate environmentally and economically dangerous plans to drill in protected areas - including off the beaches of Florida - when areas on which to drill already exist. Drilling off Florida's coast only further subjects our beaches to oil spills that become exacerbated by hurricane damage and contributes to global climate change." In June 2008, Representative Hastings introduced the Working Families Gas Tax Credit Act, a bill which would provide low- and middle-income families with up to $1,000 in tax credits to help families cope with the soaring cost of gasoline. In August 2007, the House adopted an amendment authored by Representative Hastings to the Democratic Energy bill requiring increased transparency and accountability in oil-providing countries. The amendment also called for the U.S. to reduce its dependence on foreign oil from countries run by dictators and corrupt governments. The bill was signed into law in December 2007 (P.L. 110-140). # # # #
07.12.2008	U.S. Representative and Co-Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus Taskforce on Haiti Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and U.S. Representatives Barbara Lee (D-CA) and Eliot Engel (D-NY) today introduced the Next Steps for Haiti Act 2008. The bill encourages and provides incentives to Haitian Americans and other experts in the United States to return to Haiti and help the country recover and grow in key fields and industries. "The Next Steps for Haiti Act is mutually beneficial for Haiti and Haitian Americans, providing both with the tools needed to successfully further their development. This innovative U.S.-Haiti partnership program reaffirms our commitment to putting Haiti on a sustained path to development," said Representative Hastings. "I commend my colleagues Barbara Lee and Eliot Engel for their work on this significant legislation and look forward to working with them and others in the House to ensure its passage." The Next Steps for Haiti Act establishes a professional program which will place Haitian Americans and other United States experts directly into positions within the Haitian education, health, infrastructure, and engineering sectors. The program would provide vital technical assistance to Haitian government agencies and ministries to facilitate the country's growth and development in industries identified collectively by the U.S. and Haitian government and Haitian civil society. Participants in the program receive compensation for their work and are eligible to receive student loan repayments for their service. "The increasingly desperate situation at home has forced Haitians to risk their lives and flee their homeland for the promise of a better life in the United States. We have a responsibility to help lift Haiti, the poorest nation in our Hemisphere, out of its impoverished state," Representative Hastings added. "The programs authorized under this bill will go a long way to getting this done." Representative Hastings has long been a leader on numerous issues relating to Haiti. Last month, he led a bipartisan group of 45 House Members in calling on President Bush to provide emergency humanitarian and food assistance to Haiti. In April, he authored an amendment to the Jubilee Act for Responsible Lending and Expanded Debt Cancellation. The amendment calling for the immediate cancellation of Haiti's international debt unanimously passed the House of Representatives. He is also the author of the Haitian Protection Act, legislation which would designate Haitian nationals in the United States as eligible for Temporary Protected Status (TPS). # # # #
07.10.2008	Today, U.S. Representative and Democratic Co-Chairman of Florida's Congressional Delegation Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) spoke out on the floor of the House of Representatives against offshore drilling and big oil industries record profits. Representative Hastings touted Democrats work to pursue alternative energies and deal with speculators in order to reduce gas prices and America's dependence on foreign oil. (Click hereto link to the complete statement) Excerpts from Representative Hastings' floor statement are as follows: "Democrats have already enacted into law several pieces of legislation on energy. There is more coming to reduce transit fares, crack down on price gouging, and use it or lose it, which compels the oil industry to start drilling or lose permits on 68 million acres of undeveloped Federal oil reserves which they are currently warehousing, which keeps domestic supply lower and prices higher. We need to further close the Enron loophole, which was also part of the legislation. "We have tried as best we can to deal with speculators that we know have driven up some of these gas prices. We are doing everything that we can to try to ensure that the 200,000 acres of oil shale that are already under the control of six companies are utilized. "...Let it be clearly understood by everybody in this House of Representatives, I will be the last man standing, saying that you will not drill off the coast of Florida beyond the limits of the law that all of us agreed to, until such time you change that law. Florida's beaches are pristine. Florida's tourism depends upon them. "68 million acres are already leased for oil drilling, and 23 million acres in the Arctic. Why are the oil companies not drilling there at this point? "....We aren't going to wait for the wind. T. Boone Pickens is not waiting for the wind. He has been an oil man all of his life, and he has decided that among other things he is going to do is get involved in wind research. "All of us know the buzz words, but let's stop kidding Americans. The solutions are costly, and the energy companies are the ones that are most likely to do this rather than a bunch of Members of Congress running down here so that they can have a bumper sticker. "Everybody buys gas, everybody knows it is high, and none of us in this place are going to do one doggone thing between now and the time that we leave here that is going to cause it to come down that much that it will be dramatic. "I have one more proposal: tax credits for buying gas. We have a national crisis on our hands and we owe it to ourselves to focus on what it will take, worldwide, in this global economy that we live in and in our Nation to undertake to do what is necessary for the American public." Representatives Hastings has been a longstanding champion of reducing our Nation's dependence on foreign oil and a staunch and vocal opponent of offshore oil drilling. He has also been involved in efforts to reduce gas prices for families at the pump. In June 2008, Representative Hastings introduced the Working Families Gas Tax Credit Act, a bill which would provide low- and middle-income families with up to $1,000 in tax credits to help families cope with the soaring cost of gasoline. In August 2007, the House adopted an amendment authored by Representative Hastings to the Democratic Energy bill requiring increased transparency and accountability in oil-providing countries. The amendment also called for the U.S. to reduce its dependence on foreign oil from countries run by dictators and corrupt governments. The bill was signed into law in December 2007 (P.L. 110-140). # # # #
07.08.2008	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) announced today that the U.S. Department of Transportation is awarding a $676,935 grant for the U.S. 441/State Road 7 Interchange at 11th Street in Lauderhill. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) announced today that the U.S. Department of Transportation is awarding a $676,935 grant for the U.S. 441/State Road 7 Interchange at 11th Street in Lauderhill. The funding, which will help increase access to the new Central Broward Regional Park, including the Park's cricket fields, regional library, and performing arts center, was secured by Representative Hastings in the Fiscal Year 2008 Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development Appropriations bill. "This grant supports the City of Lauderhill's efforts to develop and grow while placing a special emphasis on the Regional Park and all that it offers Broward residents," said Representative Hastings. "This interchange project is part of a larger county-wide revitalization of the U.S. 441/State Road 7 corridor on which I have been working tirelessly for years. I am so pleased that the federal government is making this necessary investment along the corridor encouraging continued growth to meet the needs of our community." "The interchange improvements at U.S. 441/State Road 7 are vital to the economic and cultural development of Central Broward County," said Lauderhill Mayor Richard Kaplan. "We are grateful our Congressman Alcee Hastings has made this possible." "I am excited about the opportunity this affords the State Road 7 corridor and thank Congressman Hastings for obtaining the federal funds," added Lauderhill Vice-Mayor Margaret Bates. Representative Hastings has made improving the U.S. 441/State Road 7 corridor a top priority. In 2005, he was successful in securing federal authorization for improved mass transit along the road which made Broward County eligible for millions in federal funding to make improvements along the road. He also secured $300,000 in the House of Representatives in Fiscal Year 2007 for the interchange, though the funding was lost when Senate Republicans blocked it from becoming law. # # # #
07.01.2008	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) praised the U.S. Department of Education's selection today of Florida's proposal for the Department's Differentiated Accountability Pilot Program. Florida's proposal combines the State's school grading system and national Adequate Yearly Progress (AYP) measures to create a more comprehensive and flexible approach to addressing schools in need of improvement. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) praised the U.S. Department of Education's selection today of Florida's proposal for the Department's Differentiated Accountability Pilot Program. Florida's proposal combines the State's school grading system and national Adequate Yearly Progress (AYP) measures to create a more comprehensive and flexible approach to addressing schools in need of improvement. "Florida's inclusion in the pilot program will allow the State to intensively target our neediest schools while providing appropriate, specialized assistance to schools that have, by most accounts, performed relatively well but must still improve in a few remaining areas," said Representative Hastings. "Without this pilot program, approximately 450 Florida schools would have had to implement costly, and oftentimes disruptive, restructuring sanctions, regardless of the extent to which they are failing to make AYP. I hope that this is only the first step toward comprehensively reforming our nation's educational policies so that every child in Florida, and across our nation, has access to the quality education necessary to succeed in the 21st Century." This past May, Representatives Hastings led Florida's Congressional Delegation in authoring a letter to U.S. Secretary of Education Margaret Spellings supporting the proposal. The letter was signed by both Senators and all of Florida's 25 Representatives and expressed support for the State's proposal. A copy of the letter follows. Of the seventeen states submitting proposals to participate in the first year of the program, which will be implemented in the 2008-09 school year, six were chosen: Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Maryland, and Ohio. --- May 23, 2008 The Honorable Margaret Spellings Secretary of Education U.S. Department of Education 400 Maryland Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20202 Dear Secretary Spellings: We write to you, in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations, in support of Florida's proposal for the Department of Education's differentiated accountability pilot program introduced earlier this year. We believe this program will prove to be an effective tool for improving educational quality and ensuring the academic success of all Florida students. As you may know, there are nearly 450 Florida schools expected to implement restructuring sanctions, as required by No Child Left Behind, in the upcoming school year. While all of these schools warrant significant attention and support, the degree of intervention necessary varies considerably. Florida's inclusion in the differentiated accountability pilot program would allow the State to intensely target schools needing the most comprehensive reforms while providing more adequate, specialized assistance to schools that have performed relatively well but face remaining challenges. Sixty-nine percent of Florida's Title I schools were identified as "schools in need of improvement" for the 2007-08 school year. The differentiated accountability pilot program would provide much needed assistance and the flexibility necessary to bring all of Florida's schools into compliance with AYP and bring all of Florida's students to grade-level proficiency. Florida's proposal is particularly valuable, because in addition to the flexibility afforded to the state, it also links state and national standards, resulting in a comprehensive, complimentary set of classifications. By combining Florida's grading system with national AYP measures, Florida's proposal creates a model that is easily understandable by the general public, clearing up any confusion parents and students may have regarding the currently parallel systems of accountability. Thank you for introducing this valuable program and for your consideration of Florida's proposal. We look forward to working with you as Congress continues its efforts to improve educational achievement for students in Florida and across the nation. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Bill Nelson Mel Martinez Gus M. Bilirakis Allen Boyd Corrine Brown Ginny Brown-Waite Vern Buchanan Kathy Castor Ander Crenshaw Lincoln Diaz-Balart Mario Diaz-Balart Tom Feeney Ric Keller Ron Klein Connie Mack Tim Mahoney Kendrick B. Meek John L. Mica Jeff Miller Adam H. Putnam Ileana Ros-Lehtinen Cliff Stearns Debbie Wasserman Schultz Dave Weldon Robert Wexler C.W. Bill Young # # # #
06.30.2008	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) criticized Senate Republicans today for blocking legislation that would have, among other improvements, stopped a 10.6% reduction in payments for doctors who treat Medicare patients set to take effect tomorrow, July 1. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) criticized Senate Republicans today for blocking legislation that would have, among other improvements, stopped a 10.6% reduction in payments for doctors who treat Medicare patients set to take effect tomorrow, July 1. On June 26, a Senate vote to bring H.R. 6331, the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008, to the floor failed by one vote, preventing Senate consideration of the legislation until after the July 4th recess. All Democratic Senators voted for the bill, while 39 Republican Senators voted against it. Senator Edward M. Kennedy, who is being treated for a brain tumor, was unable to vote. Senator John McCain was the only other Senator who did not vote. In addition to stopping the payment cuts from taking effect, this legislation would have also enhanced Medicare preventative and mental health benefits, extended expiring provisions for rural and other providers, and improved and extended programs for low-income Medicare beneficiaries. Representative Hastings stated, "I am deeply disappointed by Senate Republicans' disregard for the well-being of our nation's Medicare recipients. Current reimbursement rates are barely keeping up with rising costs, and a 10.6% reduction in reimbursement rates will only result in more physicians being forced to turn away Medicare patients because they simply cannot afford to treat them. "The current freeze on Medicare payment cuts is only temporary. In blocking this bill, Republicans have once again placed the interests of large insurance companies before the needs of the American public." The Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 passed the House of Representatives by a large, bipartisan vote of 355-59 on June 24, 2008. It has gained the support of over 160 organizations, including the American Medical Association, the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, AARP, and the National Community Pharmacists Association. # # # #
06.27.2008	U.S. Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (FL-23) and Tim Mahoney (FL-16) expressed concern today regarding the Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) 2008 Disaster Housing Plan. share: f t U.S. Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (FL-23) and Tim Mahoney (FL-16) expressed concern today regarding the Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) 2008 Disaster Housing Plan. In a letter to FEMA Administrator David Paulison, Representatives Hastings and Mahoney noted that FEMA planed to resume the use of travel trailers for emergency housing in catastrophic and extraordinary situations without properly testing for traces of formaldehyde. The Members urged FEMA to explore alternative technologies to ensure safe housing solutions for floodplain areas existed for the 2008 hurricane season. Representatives Hastings and Mahoney sent a similar letter to FEMA almost a year ago expressing these same concerns. That letter was never responded to. The text of the letter follows: June 27, 2008 The Honorable R. David Paulison Administrator Federal Emergency Management Agency 500 C Street, Southwest Washington, D.C. 20472 Dear Administrator Paulison: In September 2007, we wrote to you with concerns about the safety and availability of temporary emergency housing used by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) following catastrophes. With the 2008 hurricane season now under way, we are pleased to see that the Agency has come forth with a disaster housing plan for this year, but remain concerned about what the plan means for Floridians. This issue continues to be of critical importance to our constituents, many of whom have been affected by multiple hurricanes in the past four years. Reports surfaced last year that many of the travel trailers and mobile homes FEMA was using to house disaster victims along the Gulf Coast contained high levels of formaldehyde. As a result, FEMA decided to cease using travel trailers for emergency housing and pledged to test mobile homes for formaldehyde before use in future disasters. We applaud FEMA for its decision. In the Agency's revised plan and in recent media reports, however, it is our understanding that FEMA plans to resume the use of travel trailers for emergency housing in catastrophic and extraordinary situations. While we understand that the trailers would be an option of last resort, we are gravely concerned that they provide an option that is, and has already proven to be, infeasible. Realize, if hotels/motels, rentals and mobile homes had been a viable option following the 2004 storms in Florida, nearly 18,000 families would not have been placed in travel trailers. Similarly, had hotels/motels, rentals and mobile homes been a viable option following the 2005 hurricanes in Florida and across the Gulf Coast, more than 120,000 families would not have been placed in travel trailers. Additionally, with the new stipulation that travel trailers will only be an option for a period of less than six months, the trailers should be, again, taken off the table as an option. Given our past experiences with Charley, Frances, Ivan, Jeanne, Dennis, Katrina, Rita, and Wilma, a disaster housing mission is extremely unlikely to be completed in six month's time. As Members of Congress that represent significant areas of Florida that are located in floodways, we are profoundly troubled about the current lack of emergency housing availability for this hurricane season already upon us. As you know, by law, FEMA cannot use mobile homes if they are to be located in floodways or in coastal high hazard areas unless they meet the specific criteria under 44 CFR Part 9, Floodplain Management and Protection of Wetlands, and the regulations under 44 CFR Part 10, Environmental Considerations. We remain extremely concerned that FEMA has not provided another interim housing solution for the areas located in floodways. Any replication of even one of the storms from 2004 or 2005 could potentially render tens of thousands of disaster victims across the southern U.S. homeless, with no viable emergency housing solution from the agency designed to protect them. To avoid that end, we urgently request that FEMA provide us with a detailed overview of the "Innovative Forms of Interim Housing" alternatives FEMA is reviewing for use in floodplains this year. Floridians do not have the luxury of waiting for the Joint Housing Solutions Group's findings. We urge FEMA to explore alternative cutting-edge technologies that make for faster, safer, smarter and formaldehyde-free solutions. It is abundantly clear that the old way of thinking - and of doing business - is no longer an option. As we learned in Florida and in the wake of Hurricane Katrina, quick and safe housing is one of the most critical resources we must provide the public after a disaster. Hurricane experts have already predicted an active 2008 hurricane season. We must expeditiously ensure we have a sound and safe emergency housing plan in place before the next disaster strikes our state. We look forward to your response. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Tim Mahoney Member of Congress Member of Congress # # # #
06.27.2008	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) testified today in front of the House Science and Technology Subcommittee on Energy and Environment and Subcommittee on Science Education on the current state of hurricane research. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) testified today in front of the House Science and Technology Subcommittee on Energy and Environment and Subcommittee on Science Education on the current state of hurricane research. The two subcommittees also considered H.R. 2407, The National Hurricane Research Initiative Act of 2007, bipartisan legislation introduced by Representative Hastings which establishes a National Hurricane Research Initiative to help scientists, policy makers, and regular Americans better understand, prepare for, and respond to hurricanes. Also testifying at the hearing was Dr. Shuyi Chen, Professor at the University of Miami's Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Sciences, Dr. Stephen Leatherman, Director of Florida International University's International Hurricane Center, and Dr. David Prevatt, Assistant Professor at the University of Florida's Department of Civil and Coastal Engineering. The lead cosponsor of H.R. 2407 is Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL). Florida Senators Mel Martinez and Bill Nelson introduced companion legislation in the Senate. A copy of Representative Hastings' full statement submitted to the House Science Committee is below. --- Statement of The Honorable Alcee L. Hastings Hearing on "The State of Hurricane Research and H.R. 2407, The National Hurricane Research Initiative Act of 2007" Subcommittee on Energy and Environment and Subcommittee on Research and Science Education June 26, 2008 Thank you, Chairman Baird and Chairman Lampson, for holding this extremely important hearing today. I am honored to be here. First, I would like to thank the distinguished guests testifying today, particularly those who hail from Florida universities: Dr. Shuyi Chen, Dr. David O. Prevatt and Dr. Stephen P. Leatherman. I am very pleased that we are here to discuss The National Hurricane Research Initiative Act. I introduced this bill with my good friend and colleague Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL). Our Florida colleagues, Senators Mel Martinez and Bill Nelson, introduced the companion legislation in the Senate. The legislation that the Subcommittees are considering today is largely based on the recommendations presented in a 2007 National Science Foundation (NSF) report, Hurricane Warning: The Critical Need for a National Hurricane Research Initiative. The report delivered a stern warning that I want to reiterate now: "Relative to the tremendous damage future hurricanes will inflict, the current federal investment in hurricane science and engineering is entirely insufficient." Mr. Chairmen, our government's current investment in hurricane preparation is relegated to providing water bottles and setting up storm shelters for at-risk populations. In my view, such short-sighted preparation is wholly inadequate and unacceptable. We need a long-term strategy on how to fill gaps in our hurricane knowledge and reduce losses to the best of our ability. The significant advancements that have been made since the last Category 5 hurricane, Hurricane Andrew, struck my home state of Florida in 1992 are commendable. Unfortunately, our nation's vulnerability only continues to increase and we still lack many of the answers. The state of science today is not advanced enough to inform us reliably about when or where hurricanes are going to strike or what their precise impact on our communities will be. The 2007 NSF report and The National Hurricane Research Initiative Act call for a multidisciplinary collaboration of relevant federal government agencies, academia, industry, and other levels of government to harness their expertise to provide improved hurricane forecasts and response measures. The entire nation would deeply benefit from enhanced, coordinated hurricane research. Better intensity forecasting, long-range projections of hurricane activity, emergency management, and hurricane mitigation would be advantageous to everyone - from improving the ability of local communities to respond to hurricanes to reducing the federal government's share in recovery efforts by billions of dollars. We are all too aware of the destruction and devastation that individual hurricanes can cause. As Co-Chair of Florida's Congressional Delegation, I have seen and experienced firsthand the destruction that hurricanes have wreaked on my communities, particularly those that reside in coastal areas or surrounding the Herbert Hoover Dike along Lake Okeechobee. Since 2001, hurricane damage has cost our nation almost $36 billion in economic losses per year. In 2005, Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma accounted for over $160 billion in total damages and the loss of almost 1,500 innocent lives. Further, the impact from inland flooding and tornadoes, which can result from the onset of hurricanes and tropical storms, can be felt throughout the entire United States. Hurricane Andrew caused almost $35 billion in damages as measured by today's economic standards. Experts predict today that if a Category 5 hurricane hit Miami, it could potentially create an over $100 billion disaster, comparable to the economic damage New York suffered as a result of 9/11. Sadly, from Miramar to Fort Pierce, people are still living in trailers in my district. They lost their homes in the 2004 storms only to have the trailer they were given blow over less than one year later during a 2005 hurricane. I recognize that the cost for our bill is high. But as I, Representative Ros-Lehtinen, and the other distinguished panelists will relay today, investing in research now is crucial. Moreover, it is much more cost efficient than the losses that will ensue when the next hurricane inevitably strikes. The 2004 and 2005 hurricanes are a prime example of the cost to our federal government. Combined, we spent $77 billion for recovery efforts in the Fiscal Year 2005 and Fiscal Year 2006 Emergency Supplemental bills. Frankly, our inaction will cost our nation much more if we fail to invest in research now. Consider, 50% of the U.S. population lives within 50 miles of the coastline. As populations and economies continue to expand in these high risk coastline areas, the economic and societal costs will only increase when future hurricanes strike our nation. Universities throughout the state of Florida, represented by the distinguished panel before us, have spearheaded innovative and important advancements in hurricane research. It is clear that by increasing our investment in their fields, we can build on their academic successes and provide nationwide benefits. Let me briefly mention a few of the advancements our great universities have made in recent years. Florida International University (FIU) leads the Florida System-wide Hurricane Mitigation Alliance, comprised of nine of the eleven Florida public universities. FIU's International Hurricane Research Center conducts research focused on the mitigation impacts of hurricane damage. The Center has produced a storm model to predict highly accurate storm surge heights and flooding potential. FIU's Wall of Wind (WoW) simulates the devastating effects of hurricanes to better predict storm survivability on physical structures, building materials, utilities, and infrastructure. The Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science at the University of Miami is working tirelessly to conduct research and develop technologies to improve our hurricane forecast abilities. At the University's Center for Southeastern Tropical Advanced Remote Sensing (CSTARS), scientists have been conducting research using remotely-sensed data from Earth-orbiting satellite systems to help improve our understanding of the dynamics of hurricane structure, intensity, and movement. The University of Florida's research has improved our understanding of mitigation impacts on physical structures and our nation's infrastructure. At the Broward County Windstorm Damage Mitigation Training and Demonstration Center, the University of Florida is helping to create hurricane-proof homes and hurricane-resistant building construction. The University's hurricane simulator delivers winds up to 130 miles per hour intended to mimic the effects of hurricanes to strengthen building components and improve installation procedures to reduce hurricane damage. Each of these schools is uniquely positioned to conduct the vital hurricane research we are discussing here today. There are many others, including schools in Hawaii, Colorado and California, who will also help lead us into the future of hurricane research. As growing research indicates, hurricane trends are linked to climate change. In the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA) U.S. Climate Change Science Program (CCSP) recent report, Weather and Climate Extremes in a Changing Climate, scientific evidence details that future climate changes will be accompanied by extreme events, including hurricanes. The report specifically states, "For North Atlantic and North Pacific hurricanes, it is likely that rainfall and wind speeds will increase in response to human-caused warming. Analyses of model simulations suggest that for each 1°C (1.8°F) increase in tropical sea surface temperatures, core rainfall rates will increase by 6% to 18% and the surface wind speeds of the strongest hurricanes will increase by about 1% to 8%." NOAA's Climate Prediction Center's 2008 hurricane season outlook indicates that there could be a more than 60% chance of up to 16 named storms, including up to 14 hurricanes, 5 of which would be categorized as "major." This prediction serves as a stark reminder of the pressing need to conduct such research. Mr. Chairmen, our government can ill afford to ignore the advice of its premier scientists and put our populations and infrastructure at risk. It is imperative that we take significant actions to increase federal investment in new research to better prepare for, respond to, and mitigate the devastating impacts of hurricanes. Let us resolve to act promptly to address ways to prevent and respond to future hurricanes before the next hurricane strikes. I urge the Committee to hold a mark-up of The National Hurricane Research Initiative Act of 2007 immediately following the July recess. I stand ready and able to assist in any way possible. There is no time for further delay. Thank you very much. # # # #
06.25.2008	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) will testify tomorrow in front of the House Science and Technology Subcommittee on Energy and Environment and Subcommittee on Science Education on the current state of hurricane research. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) will testify tomorrow in front of the House Science and Technology Subcommittee on Energy and Environment and Subcommittee on Science Education on the current state of hurricane research. The two subcommittees will also consider H.R. 2407, The National Hurricane Research Initiative Act of 2007, bipartisan legislation introduced by Representative Hastings which establishes a National Hurricane Research Initiative to help scientists, policy makers, and regular Americans better understand, prepare for, and respond to hurricanes (summary attached). "Our government's current investment in hurricane preparation is relegated to providing water bottles and setting up storm shelters for at-risk populations. Such short-sighted preparation is wholly inadequate and unacceptable," said Representative Hastings. "We need a long-term strategy on how to fill gaps in our hurricane knowledge and reduce losses to the best of our ability. Our bill is a step in the right direction to accomplishing the difficult task, and Florida schools can play a huge role." Information on the hearing follows: Who: House Science and Technology Subcommittee on Energy and Environment and House Science and Technology Subcommittee on Science Education What: Joint Hearing on "The State of Hurricane Research and H.R. 2407, The National Hurricane Research Initiative Act of 2007" When: Thursday, June 26, 2008; 10:00 AM Where: 2318 Rayburn House Office Building Also scheduled to testify at the hearing tomorrow are Dr. Shuyi Chen, Professor at the University of Miami's Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Sciences, Dr. Stephen Leatherman, Director of Florida International University's International Hurricane Center, and Dr. David Prevatt, Assistant Professor at the University of Florida's Department of Civil and Coastal Engineering. The lead cosponsor of H.R. 2407 is Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL). Florida Senators Mel Martinez and Bill Nelson introduced companion legislation in the Senate. # # # #
06.20.2008	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings yesterday commemorated Juneteenth, the day when the last American slaves were freed. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings yesterday commemorated Juneteenth, the day when the last American slaves were freed. Representative Hastings' full statement on the commemoration, which appears in yesterday's Congressional Record, follows: Statement of the Honorable Alcee L. Hastings Commemorating Juneteenth June 19, 2008 Madam Speaker, I rise today to celebrate and recognize Juneteenth as a pivotal moment in our nation's history when the last American slaves learned of their freedom and the legal practice of slavery in the United States officially ended. On June 19, 1865, Union General Gordon Granger arrived with over 2,000 troops on Galveston Island to deliver the news of freedom and enforce the two-year-old Emancipation Proclamation. The news came in the aftermath of the deadliest war in American history and a nation fractured by loss and resentment. However, in the midst of social and political turmoil, a new opportunity for all people to share the quintessential American experience of freedom emerged. 90 years after gaining independence, our young nation took a crucial step toward finally ensuring that the value of freedom was not simply rhetorical, but a right to be given to all Americans. Sadly, the legal abolishment of slavery has not guaranteed the legal abolishment of inequality and unequal representation. As we all know, it would be another century before African Americans were given the same rights as white Americans. In the years after emancipation and Jim Crow, the United States has made serious improvements in drafting and implementing laws and policies that encourage equality. However, serious economic, health and educational disparities persist for many in the black community and other communities of color. These inequities threaten to exacerbate the division between those who have and those who do not. Today, we are confronted with two contrasting images of black America that are really two sides of the same coin. The countless sacrifices and efforts of previous generations have made it possible for blacks and other minority groups to excel and break boundaries from our nation's classrooms to the space program. And, for the first time in our history, the idea of a black president is not simply a fantastic dream, but a serious hope and possibility. Yet, in this same land and era of opportunity, black people across the socioeconomic spectrum have a lower life expectancy, higher instances of heart disease, greater rates of infant mortality and hypertension, and receive overall inferior healthcare compared to whites. What's more, blacks are more likely to fall victim to a justice system that prioritizes punitive criminalization over rehabilitation. Our children are victims of inadequate educational systems and African Americans receive lower incomes than others in our country with similar experience. Lastly, HIV/AIDS, a disease that has taken the lives of millions of men, women and children around the world is most rampant in the black community with the majority of new infections occurring in young African American women. So while America takes time to commemorate this historic day, we must also recognize that there is much more to be done both here and abroad. African Americans in this country know first hand the travesties of slavery. As such, we must lead the way for others to achieve their own freedom. According to the International Labor Organization, between 12 and 27 million people are the victims of forced labor worldwide. The majority of these men, women and children come from the poor and rural parts of countries that are in the midst of war, unstable economies, and political conflict. Whether forcibly removed or lured by false promises of opportunity, millions of the most desperate and vulnerable populations of the world are forced to work without pay in the agricultural, textile, service and sex industries under the constant threat of violence or death. Haiti was once hailed as one of the most profitable colonies in the Caribbean and was the first black-led republic in modern history. Home to the most successful African slave rebellions in the Western Hemisphere, Haiti is now the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere and is plagued by poverty, political unrest, hunger, disease and violence. Now, more than 200 years after Haiti was declared a free republic, between 90,000 and 300,000 Haitian children alone are trafficked into areas where they are forced into slavery. Even right here in the U.S., despite our system of laws, an estimated 20,000 people are trafficked into our country from all over the world to provide unpaid labor and services. The fact that our brothers and sisters to the south are enduring such conditions is unconscionable. We must support Haitians in their attempt to achieve sustainable development and restore dignity and socioeconomic stability to their proud nation. As the leader of the free world, we can and must do better to stop this and other injustices. Historian and Columbia Professor, Manning Marable wrote, "Historical amnesia blocks the construction of potentially successful social movements." As we continue to fight for equality and justice in our communities and in Congress, we have a responsibility to ensure that our nation, particularly our young people, do not fall victim to historical amnesia. Because so many years have passed, many forget or dismiss the role that slavery and the fight for emancipation and racial equality played in constructing the social fabric of this country. Thankfully, this problem is entirely remediable, and we can engender a new commitment to understanding our past to build a better future. Madam Speaker, as we celebrate Juneteenth, I urge my colleagues in Congress to join me in reflecting on how our country has evolved into a nation that understands the importance of protecting the rights, liberties and privileges of all people. America has bettered itself by improving the lives of its citizens and people in the rest of the world. It is imperative that we continue our uniquely American tradition of fighting for equality and justice in our country and abroad. # # # #
06.18.2008	The nine Members of Florida's Democratic Delegation to the U.S. House of Representatives issued the following statement today regarding the proposal issued by President Bush and Senator John McCain, and supported by Florida Governor Charlie Crist, regarding offshore drilling on the Outer-Continental Shelf: share: f t The nine Members of Florida's Democratic Delegation to the U.S. House of Representatives issued the following statement today regarding the proposal issued by President Bush and Senator John McCain, and supported by Florida Governor Charlie Crist, regarding offshore drilling on the Outer-Continental Shelf: "We, the Democratic members of the Florida delegation, stand together in our opposition to the Bush/McCain proposal to severely expand drilling for oil in the coastal waters of the State of Florida. We view it as a political gimmick that will not lower gas prices for consumers but could have real and tragic consequences for Florida's economy and natural environment. We are especially concerned that our Governor, who ran on a platform that included opposition to offshore drilling, a position stated even in his 2007 inaugural speech, has now opted to support the Bush/McCain efforts to support this gift to Big Oil. "While President Bush, Senator McCain, Big Oil, and perhaps even our Governor are willing to put Florida's vital tourism and fishing economies at risk for a small amount of oil and gas, we are not willing to do so. We cannot sacrifice Florida's billion-dollar tourism and fishing industries, our beaches, coastal environment and marine resources due to the Administration's wholesale failure to produce sound energy policy. Florida's hard working families have enough to contend with - the high cost of insurance, record prices at the gas pump, trying to access affordable health care and keeping up with their mortgages. A blow to tourism and our fishing industry is certainly something we cannot afford. "There is an inherent fallacy in the argument that offshore drilling would significantly lower gas prices. 68 million acres of leased federal lands and waters are currently open to drilling but are not being tapped. Over 80% of offshore oil and gas reserves are already available. In fact, since President Bush took office in 2000, the number of wells in federally-leased areas has increased exponentially, but gas prices have doubled during that same time. "Instead of calling for drilling just off the beaches of Florida, President Bush and Senator McCain should join us in support of Democrats' ‘Use It or Lose It' legislation, which directs oil companies to use the 68 million already open acres before they build rigs just off our coastline. The oil companies have had every incentive to drill in these locations because they are not paying the royalties to American taxpayers as they should. "Big Oil interests have unfortunately been more important to this Administration than the concerns or our neighbors. Now all Americans are paying the price. "We urge President Bush and Senator McCain to engage in a genuine conversation with us and our neighbors about real ways to lower the price of gas, on energy conservation and new renewable technologies, and to help us in our efforts to end the massive, wasteful taxpayer subsidies to the Big Oil companies." # # # #
06.17.2008	Led by U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar), the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) today urged President Bush to take immediate and decisive action on Haiti. share: f t Led by U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar), the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) today urged President Bush to take immediate and decisive action on Haiti. In a letter to the President authored by Representative Hastings, the 44 House Members of the CBC expressed their concerns over the current economic and political instability that has ensued in Haiti and urged President Bush to drastically increase U.S. efforts to help Haiti - the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere. Members of CBC called on President Bush to provide Haiti with immediate debt relief and extend Temporary Protective Status (TPS) for Haitian nationals currently in the U.S. The Caucus also requested a meeting with the President to discuss the current situation in Haiti. "Haiti, already suffering from extreme poverty, environmental destruction, and political instability, must now also contend with sky-rocketing food costs and civil unrest. In recent days, thousands of Haitians have flooded the streets in desperation to protest rapidly increasing food prices," wrote the Members of the CBC. "How desperate must the humanitarian crisis in Haiti become before the United States is willing to offer this deserving nation the compassion and generosity that it has bestowed upon other countries?" Representative Hastings is a leader in the fight to end double-standard immigration practices as they pertain to Haitian migrants. He is the author of H.R. 522, the Haitian Protection Act, legislation which would designate Haitian nationals in the United States as eligible for TPS. Last week, during consideration of H.R. 2634, the Jubilee Act for Responsible Lending and Expanded Debt Cancellation of 2008, the House unanimously adopted an amendment authored by Representative Hastings calling for the expedited cancellation of Haiti's international debt. Haitians continue to flee Haiti in search of safety and opportunity in the U.S. Last week, the Coast Guard intercepted and turned back a boat carrying 247 Haitians who had fled Haiti and were trying to reach the United States. According to press accounts, twenty or more Haitians are presumed to have drowned over this past weekend when a boat carrying them to the U.S. capsized off the coast of the Bahamas. The full text of the CBC letter to President Bush follows. A signed copy of the letter is attached. - - - April 22, 2008 The Honorable George W. Bush President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: We write to you to express our deep concern regarding the current situation in Haiti and to urge you to take decisive action to address the existing crisis and ensure Haiti's long-term development. Given Haiti's current economic and political instability, it is now more critical than ever for the United States to do everything within its power to assist our Hemisphere's poorest country. Haiti, already suffering from extreme poverty, environmental destruction, and political instability, must now also contend with sky-rocketing food costs and civil unrest. In recent days, thousands of Haitians have flooded the streets in desperation to protest rapidly increasing food prices. How desperate must the humanitarian crisis in Haiti become before the United States is willing to offer this deserving nation the compassion and generosity that it has bestowed upon other countries? This past week, the House of Representatives unanimously passed an amendment to the Jubilee Act encouraging the expedited cancellation of Haiti's international debt. Although Haiti is expected to receive some debt relief later this year, it is still scheduled to make nearly $50 million in debt payments in 2008, funds that could be better spent alleviating the current crisis. Congress has gone on record supporting debt relief for Haiti. We now call on you, Mr. President, to use your influence to make sure that this struggling nation is no longer held captive to their past and is put on a sustained path to development. We also urge you to grant Haitian immigrants currently residing in the United States Temporary Protected Status (TPS) so that they may also contribute to their nation's recovery and stability. As you know, TPS may be granted when any of the following conditions are met: there is ongoing armed conflict posing a serious threat to personal safety; it is requested by a foreign state that temporarily cannot handle the return of nationals due to environmental disaster; or when extraordinary and temporary conditions in a foreign state exist which prevent aliens from returning. Undoubtedly, Haiti meets all of the requirements for TPS and is just as deserving as other currently protected nations. The people of Haiti have been victimized by our country's double-standard immigration policies for far too long. As we wait for humanitarian relief to trickle into the hands of Haiti's starving population, the United States has the power to provide our struggling neighbor immediate, substantial relief by granting Haitians currently residing in the United States TPS. In February of this year, President René Préval formally requested TPS. We ask that his request be given the same consideration that similarly situated nations have been given in the past and that you swiftly grant Haitians this vital, long-overdue assistance. Haiti has made considerable progress in its efforts to recover from the physical and political damages of recent years through its commendable rebuilding efforts and its recent democratic elections. However, its democracy remains fragile. As Haitians continue to live under ever worsening conditions, it is only a matter of time before a humanitarian crisis becomes a political one threatening the stability of Haiti and our entire region. Haitians, both in Haiti and in our own country, have long suffered through natural destruction, persistent poverty, repressive regimes, and the inequitable policies of the United States. It is now our moral obligation to help Haitians sustain and rebuild their country by alleviating their nation's debt and granting Haitian immigrants already residing in the United States TPS. We respectfully request a meeting with you to discuss these very critical issues and why Haiti warrants immediate debt relief and Haitians merit TPS. Sincerely, Carolyn Cheeks Kilpatrick Alcee L. Hastings David Scott G.K. Butterfield John Lewis Diane E. Watson Wm. Lacy Clay Al Green Artur Davis James E. Clyburn Eleanor Holmes Norton William J. Jefferson Danny K. Davis Elijah E. Cummings Edolphus Towns Donald M. Payne Sheila Jackson Lee Barbara Lee Bobby L. Rush John Conyers, Jr. Albert R. Wynn Chaka Fattah Corrine Brown Gregory W. Meeks Charles B. Rangel Maxine Waters André Carson Jesse L. Jackson, Jr. Donna M. Christensen Kendrick B. Meek Eddie Bernice Johnson Bennie G. Thompson Emanuel Cleaver Laura Richardson Gwen Moore Robert C. "Bobby" Scott Keith Ellison Melvin L. Watt Hank Johnson Sanford Bishop, Jr. Yvette D. Clarke Stephanie Tubbs Jones # # # #
06.10.2008	Today, U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced the Working Families Gas Tax Credit Act today, legislation aimed at helping families cope with the soaring cost of gasoline. His efforts come at a time when average fuel prices in Florida and throughout the country have exceeded $4.00 per gallon and are expected to top $5.00 per gallon by the July 4th holiday. share: f t Today, U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) introduced the Working Families Gas Tax Credit Act today, legislation aimed at helping families cope with the soaring cost of gasoline. His efforts come at a time when average fuel prices in Florida and throughout the country have exceeded $4.00 per gallon and are expected to top $5.00 per gallon by the July 4th holiday. "Working families are paying twice as much as they were paying for a gallon of gas last year while oil companies are reporting record profits. It's literally highway robbery," said Representative Hastings. "Americans are looking to Congress to help them respond to unwarranted gas price increases. The Working Families Gas Tax Credit Act will give working families the temporary relief that they need during this difficult time." The Working Families Gas Tax Credit Act will provide a $500 tax credit to individuals and a $1000 tax credit to families who make up to $75,000 or $150,000 or less, respectively. All individuals and families who were eligible for the economic stimulus rebate recently passed into law by the Democratic Congress would be eligible for this tax credit. Similar to the 2008 economic stimulus package, the amount of the credit will phase out for individuals making over $75,000 and families making over $150,000. "Except for housing costs, low- and middle-income households in the United States spend more of their earnings on transportation than anything else," Representative Hastings noted. "This credit would act as a secondary economic stimulus and go a long way to helping American cope with escalating gas costs and limited resources." In August 2007, the House adopted an amendment authored by Representative Hastings to the Democratic Energy bill requiring increased transparency and accountability in oil-providing countries. The amendment also called for the U.S. to reduce its dependence on foreign oil from countries run by dictators and corrupt governments. The bill was signed into law in December 2007 (P.L. 110-140). # # # #
06.04.2008	The U.S. House of Representatives tonight overwhelmingly passed an amendment to H.R. 3021, the 21st Century Green High-Performing Public School Facilities Act authored by U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) which will protect students in Florida and throughout the nation from the dangers of mold and mildew in schools. share: f t The U.S. House of Representatives tonight overwhelmingly passed an amendment to H.R. 3021, the 21st Century Green High-Performing Public School Facilities Act authored by U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) which will protect students in Florida and throughout the nation from the dangers of mold and mildew in schools. "When your learning environment is the source of your illness, you can't even begin to think about academics," remarked Representative Hastings. "Clearly, our students should not have to sacrifice their health and well-being to receive an education. Years of disinvestment in our educational system have led to unmanageable school sizes and patchwork facilities which disregard the health implications for students. Today, we will fix that oversight." Considerable research has shown that exposure to mold and mildew, as well as other contaminants that compromise indoor air quality, can cause adverse health conditions which interrupt the learning process among students. These poor air quality conditions can be particularly pronounced in portable school units often found at overflowing schools throughout Florida and the nation. The Hastings Amendment to H.R. 3021 allows federal funds to be used for mold and mildew abatement in schools. The 21st Century Green High-Performing Public School Facilities Act directs the Secretary of Education to make grants and low-interest loans to local educational agencies for the modernization and repair of public school facilities, encourages the building of "green schools," and establishes funding for the repair of schools damaged by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. The Hastings Amendment was rolled into a the Manager's Amendment offered by the Chairman of the Early Childhood, Elementary, and Secondary Education Subcommittee, Representative Dale Kildee (D-MI). H.R. 3021 is expected to pass the House later this evening and will then await consideration by the Senate. # # # #
06.04.2008	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) teamed up today at a Capitol Hill Rally with the National Association of Counties (NACo), including Broward County Commissioner Ilene Lieberman, in support of H.R. 5698, the Restoring the Partnership for County Health Care Costs Act of 2008, bipartisan legislation he introduced which will restore the federal-local partnership in covering medical expenses for detained individuals before they are adjudicated. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) teamed up today at a Capitol Hill Rally with the National Association of Counties (NACo), including Broward County Commissioner Ilene Lieberman, in support of H.R. 5698, the Restoring the Partnership for County Health Care Costs Act of 2008, bipartisan legislation he introduced which will restore the federal-local partnership in covering medical expenses for detained individuals before they are adjudicated. The group called on Congress to take action and pass the Restoring the Partnership for County Health Care Costs Act of 2008. "The federal government and local governments share the responsibility to provide health care to all individuals. As such, we must share the costs," said Representative Hastings today. "Stripping people of their benefits before they have been convicted of anything is a direct contradiction of the basic presumption of innocence - the foundation of the American criminal justice system. Sticking local governments with the full tab for this contradictory policy is just plain wrong." A person detained in a county jail or juvenile detention facility in almost all states who is unable to post bail is ineligible to receive Medicare, Medicaid, of Social Security Insurance (SSI) benefits once they enter the facility. Under current law, however, the suspension of benefits occurs prior to the issuance of formal charges or conviction. As a result, local governments (usually county governments) are responsible for not only meeting and paying for the federal mandate that all individuals who are detained in, or inmates of, public institutions be provided with health care, but also for the days, weeks, months, and even years leading up to an actual conviction. If a person is found innocent, the reinstatement of federal benefits - benefits which should not have been taken away in the first place - can takes months while the local government continues to be responsible for covering the non-reimbursable costs associated with providing health care to these individuals. The Restoring the Partnership for County Health Care Costs Act of 2008 prohibits the federal government from stripping individuals of their Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security Insurance benefits prior to actually being convicted. It ensures that individuals currently receiving Medicaid, Medicare, or SSI will continue to receive those benefits until they are tried and convicted and that local governments will not be forced to cover the medical expenses of individuals who have not yet been convicted of any wrong doing. In addition to Representative Hastings and Commissioner Lieberman, speakers at the rally included NACo President Oakland County, Michigan Commissioner Eric Coleman and Tarrant County, Texas Judge Glenn Whitley, as well as U.S. Representatives Michael Burgess (R-TX) and Rush Holt (D-NJ), the bill's two other original sponsors. H.R. 5698 has also been endorsed by the National Sheriffs' Association. ####
05.28.2008	Today, U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) led Florida's Congressional Delegation in a letter to U.S. Secretary of Education Margaret Spellings supporting a proposal that would combine Florida's A+ school grading system and national Adequate Yearly Progress (AYP) measures to create a more comprehensive and flexible approach to addressing schools in need of improvement. share: f t Today, U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) led Florida's Congressional Delegation in a letter to U.S. Secretary of Education Margaret Spellings supporting a proposal that would combine Florida's A+ school grading system and national Adequate Yearly Progress (AYP) measures to create a more comprehensive and flexible approach to addressing schools in need of improvement. The letter, authored by Representative Hastings and signed by both Senators and all 25 Representatives, expresses support for the State's application to the differentiated accountability pilot program introduced by the U.S. Department of Education earlier this year. Representative Hastings noted that "without this pilot program, approximately 450 Florida schools would have to implement costly, and oftentimes disruptive, restructuring sanctions, regardless of the extent to which they are failing to make AYP. Florida's inclusion in the pilot program would allow the State to intensively target our State's neediest schools, while providing appropriate, specialized assistance to schools that have by most accounts performed relatively well but must still improve in a few remaining areas." According to Representative Hastings, "the differentiated accountability pilot program would provide schools with the adequate resources and flexibility to more effectively address the needs of Florida's students." Further, he stated, "I am encouraged by my colleagues' overwhelming support of this proposal and by Secretary Spellings' willingness to improve current No Child Left Behind regulations. I hope that this is only the first step toward comprehensively reforming our nation's educational policies so that every child in Florida, and across our nation, has access to the quality education necessary to succeed in the 21st Century." Secretary Spellings introduced the differentiated accountability pilot program in March, 2008. Ten states will be chosen to participate in the first year of the program, which will be implemented in the 2008-09 school year. The full text of the letter to Secretary Spellings follows. - - - May 23, 2008 The Honorable Margaret Spellings Secretary of Education U.S. Department of Education 400 Maryland Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20202 Dear Secretary Spellings: We write to you, in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations, in support of Florida's proposal for the Department of Education's differentiated accountability pilot program introduced earlier this year. We believe this program will prove to be an effective tool for improving educational quality and ensuring the academic success of all Florida students. As you may know, there are nearly 450 Florida schools expected to implement restructuring sanctions, as required by No Child Left Behind, in the upcoming school year. While all of these schools warrant significant attention and support, the degree of intervention necessary varies considerably. Florida's inclusion in the differentiated accountability pilot program would allow the State to intensely target schools needing the most comprehensive reforms while providing more adequate, specialized assistance to schools that have performed relatively well but face remaining challenges. Sixty-nine percent of Florida's Title I schools were identified as "schools in need of improvement" for the 2007-08 school year. The differentiated accountability pilot program would provide much needed assistance and the flexibility necessary to bring all of Florida's schools into compliance with AYP and bring all of Florida's students to grade-level proficiency. Florida's proposal is particularly valuable, because in addition to the flexibility afforded to the state, it also links state and national standards, resulting in a comprehensive, complimentary set of classifications. By combining Florida's grading system with national AYP measures, Florida's proposal creates a model that is easily understandable by the general public, clearing up any confusion parents and students may have regarding the currently parallel systems of accountability. Thank you for introducing this valuable program and for your consideration of Florida's proposal. We look forward to working with you as Congress continues its efforts to improve educational achievement for students in Florida and across the nation. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Bill Nelson Mel Martinez Gus M. Bilirakis Allen Boyd Corrine Brown Ginny Brown-Waite Vern Buchanan Kathy Castor Ander Crenshaw Lincoln Diaz-Balart Mario Diaz-Balart Tom Feeney Ric Keller Ron Klein Connie Mack Tim Mahoney Kendrick B. Meek John L. Mica Jeff Miller Adam H. Putnam Ileana Ros-Lehtinen Cliff Stearns Debbie Wasserman Schultz Dave Weldon Robert Wexler C.W. Bill Young # # # #
05.23.2008	One day after hurricane forecasters predicted a busy hurricane season, U.S. Representative and Florida Congressional Delegation Co-Chairman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) called on Floridians to take the necessary steps to prepare for this year's hurricane season. share: f t One day after hurricane forecasters predicted a busy hurricane season, U.S. Representative and Florida Congressional Delegation Co-Chairman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) called on Floridians to take the necessary steps to prepare for this year's hurricane season. Yesterday, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Climate Prediction Center's 2008 hurricane season outlook indicated that there could be a more than 60 % chance of up to 16 named storms, including up to 9 hurricanes and up to 5 major hurricanes. Hurricane season begins on June 1. "People throughout Florida are all too aware of the destruction and devastation hurricanes can cause. In light of the actively predicated hurricane season, the people of Florida should make sure they are properly prepared and have an emergency plan in place for their families," said Representative Hastings. "Sadly, the United States still lacks a comprehensive hurricane research program. Until that happens - and even beyond - people need to make it their own personal responsibility to prepare for future storms." In addition to calling on Floridians to prepare for hurricane season, Representative Hastings warned that the Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) planned closing of its Long-Term Recovery Office (FLTRO) could negatively impact the Federal government's ability to respond to any hurricane or other national disaster in Florida. The FLTRO was established in 2005 in response to the 2004 hurricanes and has since become a crucial underpinning of Florida's efforts to prepare and respond to disasters. For the past two years, the existence of the Office has saved countless funds and lives. The Office has been successful in expediting recovery efforts and public assistance reimbursements to state and local governments, while also providing significant mitigation funding and guidance to local governments working to reduce their risk from future storms. However, FEMA has started to downsize the office despite hurricane season being just around the corner. "Every day that the planned termination of the FEMA Long-Term Recovery Office continues, Florida loses an invaluable means to be able to prepare, respond and mitigate future hurricanes. Now, local governments and people throughout the State need to be that much more prepared in order to attempt to supplant the immense benefits the Office has brought to the State. FEMA needs to take the advice of the many leaders in Congress and throughout the State and make the office permanent," noted Rep. Hastings. In 2007, the U.S. House of Representatives adopted an amendment to the Homeland Security Authorization bill authored by Representative Hastings that would keep the office open for at least the next three years. The 2008 Omnibus Appropriations bill (P.L.110-161) mandated that the Florida Long-Term Recovery Office remain open until all casework dealing with the 2004 hurricanes is completed. Rep. Hastings has also introduced H.R. 2407, the National Hurricane Research Initiative Act of 2007, with a bipartisan group of Florida legislators. The bill calls for the implementation of a strategic action plan to improve the nation's hurricane research, prediction and preparation abilities. # # # #
05.14.2008	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) hailed the House of Representatives' passage today of the Food, Conservation and Energy Act of 2008 Conference Report in a vote of 318 - 106, an overwhelming veto - proof majority. This historical bill will ensure the future success of Florida agriculture by increasing funding for specialty crops, nutrition programs, rural development and conservation. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) hailed the House of Representatives' passage today of the Food, Conservation and Energy Act of 2008 Conference Report in a vote of 318 - 106, an overwhelming veto - proof majority. This historical bill will ensure the future success of Florida agriculture by increasing funding for specialty crops, nutrition programs, rural development and conservation. "This Farm Bill represents the best agricultural policy ever for Florida. It is a victory for all Americans. My experiences working as a migrant farmer as a boy helped me understand firsthand how food gets to the table. I am proud to say that this bill serves our nation well. Agriculture is the economic engine of Florida and consumers and farmers alike will greatly benefit from the Houses' actions today," said Representative Hastings. The Farm Bill includes an expansion of trade preferences to Haiti's textile industry. The bill also includes the Pollinator Protection Act, legislation authored by Representative Hastings and aimed at combating colony collapse disorder. Other important provisions for Florida in this bill include: $1.5 billion for specialty crops; $4 billion for conservation programs; $10.361 billion for nutrition programs; $377 million to combat agricultural pests and diseases; $320 million in loan guarantees for the construction of biorefineries; and Establishment of a sugar-to-ethanol program. # # # #
05.09.2008	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) called on the South Florida flying public to attend the Federal Aviation Administration's (FAA) upcoming public meeting on Tuesday, May 13, 2008 at 7:00 PM at the Holiday Inn Palm Beach-Airport Conference Center in West Palm Beach regarding the fate of the Terminal Radar Approach Control (TRACON) at Palm Beach International Airport (PBI). share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) called on the South Florida flying public to attend the Federal Aviation Administration's (FAA) upcoming public meeting on Tuesday, May 13, 2008 at 7:00 PM at the Holiday Inn Palm Beach-Airport Conference Center in West Palm Beach regarding the fate of the Terminal Radar Approach Control (TRACON) at Palm Beach International Airport (PBI). The meeting was scheduled at Representative Hastings' request to follow-up on two previous meetings in January and April 2008. At those meetings, the FAA failed to answer the most basic questions regarding the FAA's consolidation plans, including concerns regarding safety, air traffic controller interoperability, the continuation of services, and continued communication between air traffic controllers and pilots - all areas which will be negatively impacted in South Florida if the FAA's TRACON consolidation plans are successful. "At the first meeting, the FAA staff failed to produce even one sheet of paper explaining how their proposal for consolidation would play out on the ground. At the second, the comments from some FAA officials made it clear to me that this decision was made without any due diligence," remarked Representative Hastings. "The FAA has missed great opportunities to meaningfully engage the public and seriously consider the needs of South Florida. It is absolutely necessary for the public to attend this renewed opportunity and share their concerns." After a FAA public meeting on January 14, 2008, Representative Hastings wrote a letter to the FAA expressing his discontent with the manner in which the meeting was facilitated. At another public meeting on April 10, 2008, Representative Hastings' staff pressured the FAA on issues regarding safety and planning for South Florida's airspace. During that meeting, senior FAA officials failed to provide adequate justification for consolidating the PBI TRACON. Representative Hastings has since met with FAA Acting Administrator Bobby Sturgell and remains deeply concerned that the FAA made a decision doing its due diligence. The TRACON system guides planes within a 50 mile radius of the airport on their final approaches. In an effort to save money, the FAA has embarked on an ambitious plan to consolidate dozens of TRACON systems throughout the country. Despite overwhelming opposition from air traffic controllers, local pilots, aircraft owners, the South Florida and Treasure Coast Congressional Delegations and local officials, the FAA is attempting to consolidate the TRACONs of all South Florida international airports into one at Miami International Airport (MIA). Representative Hastings has warned that under the FAA's plan, all South Florida airports - domestic and international - will be left without an approach radar system if a natural disaster or terrorist attack were to destroy the TRACON at MIA. The FAA's contingency plan would require that controllers in Jacksonville, an airport more than 350 miles away, direct approaching aircraft not only in their assigned region, but throughout all of South Florida and virtually the entire state without additional staff and technology. Representative Hastings has led the fight in Washington to block the FAA's consolidation plan. On three separate occasions since 2006, the House of Representatives has adopted legislative language authored by Representative Hastings blocking the FAA from consolidating the PBI TRACON, expressing Congressional opposition to the unnecessary consolidation of TRACONs in the interest of air system functionality, disaster response, and national security. This listening session will provide a public opportunity for comment on FAA's plans to eliminate the PBI TRACON. FAA Public Meeting on PBI TRACON Tuesday, May 13, 2008 - 7:00 PM Holiday Inn Palm Beach-Airport Conference Center 1301 Belvedere Road, West Palm Beach, FL
05.05.2008	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) led a bipartisan group of 46 House Members today in calling on President Bush to provide no less than $60 million in emergency humanitarian and food assistance to Haiti. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) led a bipartisan group of 46 House Members today in calling on President Bush to provide no less than $60 million in emergency humanitarian and food assistance to Haiti. In a letter to the President authored by Representatives Hastings, Kendrick Meek (D-FL), Jo Ann Emerson (R-MO), and Jim McGovern (D-MA), the bipartisan group of Members noted that these emergency funds would provide Haiti President René Préval with the necessary resources to carry out his anti-hunger program for the next six months. The Members also asked President Bush to send Secretary Rice to Haiti on a humanitarian mission demonstrate the United States' commitment to the helping Haiti grow and rebuild. Representative Hastings has long been a leader in issues relating to Haiti. This past month he authored an amendment to H.R. 2634, the Jubilee Act for Responsible Lending and Expanded Debt Cancellation, which unanimously passed the House of Representatives two weeks ago, calling for the immediate cancellation of Haiti's international debt. He is also the author of H.R. 522, the Haitian Protection Act, legislation which would designate Haitian nationals in the United States as eligible for Temporary Protected Status (TPS). Representative Hastings has been calling for the extension of TPS to Haitian nationals for years. The text of the bipartisan letter follows: May 5, 2008 President George W. Bush The White House Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President, We write to request that your Administration make emergency relief for Haiti a high priority. The most important and direct way to do this would be by dedicating no less than $60 million for Haiti when allocating the remaining fiscal year 2008 funding from the Title II Food for Peace Program and the resources made available by the recent drawdown of funds from the Bill Emerson Humanitarian Trust, an action announced by the Secretary of Agriculture on April 14, 2008. These funds will provide President Préval the necessary resources to carry out his anti-hunger program for the next six months. Additionally, we respectfully request that Secretary Rice take a humanitarian trip to Haiti in the near future. This trip would serve to further demonstrate to the international community that we view our current commitment to Haiti as more than an obligation, but rather as an affirmation of our duty to the friends and allies of the United States. As you know, Haiti sits only 600 miles from our shores. It has been wracked by political turmoil throughout its history and is the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere. In early 2007, U.N. peacekeepers restored stability to the country by driving most gang activity out of Port-au-Prince's notorious slums, and the Haitian government began to forge ahead with a comprehensive plan for economic growth. Today, Haiti is facing another crisis that threatens to derail this progress. Earlier this month, riots protesting high food prices broke out in the southern city of Les Cayes and quickly spread throughout the country. The rising cost of food has placed additional hardship on Haiti's people, three-quarters of whom live on less than $2 a day. Additionally, 1 in 5 children is chronically malnourished and a recent New York Times story reported that one booming business is the selling of patties made of mud, oil and sugar typically eaten by the most destitute. To respond to this crisis, President Préval announced new measures that would reduce the price of a 50-Kilogram bag of rice from $51 to $43, or by 16%. In a country in Haiti's current condition, this reduction could mean the difference between eating and going hungry for many destitute families. The United States must now demonstrate leadership to resolve and help one of its closest neighbors. It is not in the United States' interest for Haiti to descend into turmoil. We strongly urge you to immediately provide these necessary funds and send Secretary Rice to Haiti to emphasize our commitment to our neighbor and ally. We commend your continued desire to help those suffering from humanitarian crisis around the world. We urge you now to come to the aid of the Haitian people who are suffering in our own backyard at this crucial time. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Kendrick B. Meek Jo Ann Emerson James P. McGovern Gary L. Ackerman Michael A. Arcuri Corrine Brown Kathy Castor Yvette Clark Donna M. Christensen John Conyers Jr. Joseph Crowley Danny K. Davis Eliot Engel Charles A. Gonzalez Al Green Jesse L. Jackson, Jr. Sheila Jackson-Lee William Jefferson Eddie Bernice Johnson Henry C. "Hank" Johnson Jr. Carolyn C. Kilpatrick Dennis J. Kucinich Barbara Lee John Lewis Tim Mahoney Doris O. Matsui Gregory W. Meeks Gwen Moore Eleanor Holmes Norton Donald M. Payne David E. Price Charles B. Rangel Ileana Ros-Lehtinen Bobby L. Rush Janice D. Schakowsky Debbie Wasserman Schultz Vic Snyder Pete Stark Bennie G. Thompson Ed Towns Maxine Waters Diane Watson Melvin L. Watt Peter Welch Robert Wexler # # # #
04.30.2008	At a press conference held this morning in the U.S. Capitol, U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and several Members of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) called for immediate U.S. intervention to alleviate the humanitarian crisis in Haiti. share: f t At a press conference held this morning in the U.S. Capitol, U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and several Members of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) called for immediate U.S. intervention to alleviate the humanitarian crisis in Haiti. Representative Hastings and others asked President Bush to expedite debt relief to Haiti, increase food aid, and extend Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Haitian immigrants currently in the United States. Last week, the 42 House Members of the CBC signed a letter authored by Representative Hastings to President Bush urging that him to increase effort to address Haiti's current economic and political instability and requesting a meeting with him to discuss the situation in Haiti. Despite countless attempts by Representative Hastings, the White House has yet to confirm a meeting with Members of the CBC. Representative Hastings released the following statement in conjunction with today's press conference: "As Members of the Congressional Black Caucus, we call on President Bush to immediately provide for the short-term relief of Haitians and for a long-term sustained development plan for Haiti by addressing three things. "First, we need to work together to expedite the cancellation of Haiti's debt to international institutions. Haiti is scheduled to pay approximately $50 million dollars in 2008 to multilateral financial institutions. Canceling Haiti's debt will help alleviate poverty and increase stability in Haiti. Just last week the House went on record of supporting expedited debt relief to Haiti. We have done our work, now the President must do his. "Second, the President must grant Haitian nationals Temporary Protected Status. The Coast Guard has already interdicted 972 Haitians in 2008, 247 this month alone. Just last week, more than 25 Haitians died off the coast of the Bahamas when their boat capsized. Stabilizing Haiti will stop the mass exodus to the United States coming from Haiti right now. "Haitians have long endured our nation's double-standard, immigration policies. Granting TPS is the most inexpensive and immediate form of aid the President can single-handedly provide. "Haiti has suffered from multiple natural disasters, political instability, and dire poverty and has met the conditions under which a nation may be granted TPS according to U.S. law. How desperate must the humanitarian crisis in Haiti become before the United States grants Haitians TPS status? "Finally, we must expand our humanitarian efforts and provide immediate and lasting food relief to Haiti. "The President's recent steps to alleviate the food crisis in Haiti fall far short of what is immediately required. Releasing a portion of $200 million in emergency food aid to Haiti and redirecting $6.5 million in existing aid funds to Haiti is a drop in the bucket when at this moment Haitians are crying out that their hunger pain feels like they are ‘eating Clorox.' Reports of Haitian children being forced to eat soap and mud cookies just to stay nourished are beyond troubling. "The 2008 Emergency Supplemental President Bush submitted to Congress only included $350 million in food assistance to needy countries. We must add to that amount and ensure that a significant amount of the $350 million is allocated to Haiti. "This issue is of significant importance to me and my colleagues in the Congressional Black Caucus. The powers that be must step up to the plate and do what is necessary to save the innocent before it is too late." Representative Hastings has long been a leader in issues relating to Haiti. This past month he authored an amendment to H.R. 2634, the Jubilee Act for Responsible Lending and Expanded Debt Cancellation, which unanimously passed the House of Representatives, calling for the immediate cancellation of Haiti's international debt. He is also the author of H.R. 522, the Haitian Protection Act, legislation which would designate Haitian nationals in the United States as eligible for Temporary Protected Status (TPS). Representative Hastings has been calling for the extension of TPS to Haitian nationals for years. # # # #
04.16.2008	The U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed an amendment today authored by U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) calling for the cancellation of Haiti's international debt. share: f t The U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed an amendment today authored by U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) calling for the cancellation of Haiti's international debt. Representative Hastings offered his amendment to H.R. 2634, the Jubilee Act for Responsible Lending and Expanded Debt Cancellation of 2008. The bill directs the Secretary of the Treasury to work with international financial institutions to provide debt cancellation to low-income countries. "With the passage of my amendment, Congress goes on record supporting the cancellation of Haiti's international debt to help alleviate poverty and increase stability throughout the country. This is an important initial step toward finally freeing Haiti from its onerous debt," said Representative Hastings. "I remain committed to helping provide much needed resources and protection for Haitians in Haiti and within our own borders so that they may contribute to their country's recovery from years of political, economic, and environmental turmoil and put the nation on a sustained path to development." Representative Hastings is a leader in the fight to end double-standard immigration practices as they pertain to Haitian migrants. He is the author of H.R. 522, the Haitian Protection Act, legislation which would designate Haitian nationals in the United States as eligible for Temporary Protected Status (TPS). Representative Hastings has been calling for the extension of TPS for Haitian nationals for years. Just yesterday, Representative Hastings wrote to President Bush demanding an explanation as to why Haitian nationals have not yet been granted TPS. The most recent letter follows 2 months of correspondence between Representative Hastings and the Bush Administration on the topic of TPS for Haitians. Despite Representative Hastings' strong urging, the Bush Administration continues to refuse to provide an adequate explanation. "The situation in Haiti - a nation that has historically been afflicted by violence and natural disasters - is increasingly desperate and volatile," Representative Hastings said from the House floor today. "The United States government can not turn a blind eye as food prices escalate out of control in the most impoverished nation in the Western Hemisphere." A copy of the Hastings amendment to the Jubilee Act and Representative Hastings' recent correspondence with the Bush Administration regarding Haiti and TPS are attached at the bottom of this release. hastings_amendment_to_jubilee_act_h_r_2634 2008_tps_letters_4-15-08 ####
04.09.2008	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) announced that Chessy Ricca of Palm Beach has won the 27th Annual Congressional Art Competition for the 23rd Congressional District. Reflecting on a national theme of "An Artistic Discovery," Chessy's painting titled, Summer's Solitude Under the Banyan Tree, was selected to represent the 23rd Congressional District in Washington for the next year share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) announced that Chessy Ricca of Palm Beach has won the 27th Annual Congressional Art Competition for the 23rd Congressional District. Reflecting on a national theme of "An Artistic Discovery," Chessy's painting titled, Summer's Solitude Under the Banyan Tree, was selected to represent the 23rd Congressional District in Washington for the next year. many phenomenal submissions, but her work really stood out," said Representative Hastings. "This competition provides an excellent opportunity for students to display their talent. Artistic abilities will always have enduring importance in our culture and we should continue to nurture the skills of young artists." Chessy Ricca, a senior at Cardinal Newman, is a talented artist and has been named as a nominee for the Pathfinders Award in Art. In addition to winning the local competition, Chessy will travel along with her parents to Washington later this spring to attend an honors reception with other national winners. The painting will be unveiled in a reception hosted by the House of Representatives in June and displayed for one year in the U.S. Capitol. Representative Hastings' Art Competition is held annually and is open to any student attending a school located in the 23rd Congressional District, which includes parts of Broward, Palm Beach, Martin, St. Lucie, and Hendry Counties. Artwork that can be submitted range from paintings, drawings, collage, prints, mixed media, computer generated art and photography. Students and teachers interested in learning more about the Congressional Art Competition should contact Representative Hastings' Ft. Lauderdale Office at (954) 733-2800. A picture of Chessy and Summer's Solitude Under the Banyan Tree is included below.
04.08.2008	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) announced today that at his request the Federal Aviation Administration will convene a second public meeting/listening session on Thursday, April 10, 2008 at 7:00 PM at the Hilton Palm Beach Airport in West Palm Beach to follow-up on a previous meeting in January 2008 on the fate of the Terminal Radar Approach Control at Palm Beach International Airport. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) announced today that at his request the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) will convene a second public meeting/listening session on Thursday, April 10, 2008 at 7:00 PM at the Hilton Palm Beach Airport in West Palm Beach to follow-up on a previous meeting in January 2008 on the fate of the Terminal Radar Approach Control (TRACON) at Palm Beach International Airport (PBI). After a previous meeting on January 14, 2008, Representative Hastings wrote a letter to the FAA expressing his discontent with the manner in which the meeting was facilitated. "The FAA staff failed to produce even one sheet of paper explaining how their proposal for consolidation would play out on the ground," remarked Representative Hastings. "The FAA missed a great opportunity to meaningfully engage the public and seriously consider the needs of South Florida. It is absolutely necessary for the public to attend this renewed opportunity and share their concerns." The TRACON system guides planes within a 50 mile radius of the airport on their final approaches. In an effort to save money, the FAA has embarked on an ambitious plan to consolidate dozens of TRACON systems throughout the country. Despite overwhelming opposition from air traffic controllers, local pilots, aircraft owners, the South Florida and Treasure Coast Congressional Delegations and local officials, the FAA is attempting to consolidate the TRACONs of all South Florida international airports into one at Miami International Airport (MIA). Representative Hastings has warned that under the FAA's plan, all South Florida airports - domestic and international - will be left without an approach radar system if a natural disaster or terrorist attack were to destroy the TRACON at MIA. The FAA's contingency plan would require that controllers in Jacksonville, an airport more than 350 miles away, direct approaching aircraft not only in their assigned region, but throughout all of South Florida and virtually the entire state without additional staff and technology. "For the sake of imagined efficiency, the FAA is on the verge of jeopardizing the security and functionality of our airspace in South Florida," Hastings said. "It is absolutely necessary for the public to have a chance to say something about it." Representative Hastings has led the fight in Washington to block the FAA's consolidation plan. On three separate occasions since 2006, the House of Representatives has adopted legislative language authored by Representative Hastings blocking the FAA from consolidating the PBI TRACON, expressing Congressional opposition to the unnecessary consolidation of TRACONs in the interest of air system functionality, disaster response, and national security. This listening session will provide a public opportunity for comment on FAA's plans to eliminate the PBI TRACON. FAA Public Meeting on PBI TRACON Thursday, April 10, 2008 - 7:00 PM Hilton Palm Beach Airport Hotel 150 Australian Avenue, West Palm Beach, FL For more information about Representative Hastings' involvement in this issue over the years, visit /. ####
04.03.2008	U.S. Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), Rush D. Holt (D-NJ), and Michael C. Burgess (R-TX) introduced bipartisan legislation today which will restore the federal-local partnership in covering medical expenses for incarcerated individuals before they are adjudicated. share: f t U.S. Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), Rush D. Holt (D-NJ), and Michael C. Burgess (R-TX) introduced bipartisan legislation today which will restore the federal-local partnership in covering medical expenses for incarcerated individuals before they are adjudicated. The Restoring the Partnership for County Health Care Costs Act of 2008 ensures that individuals currently receiving Medicaid, Medicare, or Social Security Insurance (SSI) will continue to receive those benefits until they are tried and convicted and that local governments will not be forced to cover the medical expenses of individuals who have not yet been convicted of any wrong doing."The Federal and local governments are partners in ensuring that all of our residents have medical coverage. Neither partner should be bearing an unfair burden in meeting this mandate," said Representative Hastings. "Stripping people of their federal benefits before that have been convicted of anything is a direct contradiction of the basic presumption of innocence which is the foundation of the American criminal justice system. And for the federal government to stick local governments with the tab for this contradictory policy is just plain wrong." "This is a simple matter of fairness," said Representative Holt. "The federal government should not saddle states and counties - who are already facing difficult fiscal challenges - with these costs. Our bill would correct this historic unfairness." "Cost-shifting, whether public or private, undermines efforts to control the growing costs of health care," said Representative Burgess. "This bill targets the cost-shifting between different levels of government to keep costs in check and keep people covered." A person incarcerated in a county jail or juvenile detention facility in almost all states is ineligible to receive Medicare, Medicaid, of SSI benefits once they enter the facility. Under current law, however, the suspension of benefits occurs prior to the issuance of formal charges or conviction. As a result, local governments (usually county governments) are responsible for not only meeting and paying for the mandate that all individuals who are inmates of public institutions be provided with health care, but also for the days, weeks, months, and even years leading up to an actual conviction. If a person is found innocent, the reinstatement of federal benefits - benefits which should not have been taken away in the first place - can takes months while the local government continues to be responsible for covering the non-reimbursable costs associated with providing the federally-mandated health care to these individuals. The bipartisan Restoring the Partnership for County Health Care Costs Act of 2008 addresses this issue by prohibiting the federal government from stripping individuals of their Medicare, Medicaid, and SSI benefits prior to actually being convicted. Critically, it reaffirms the federal-local partnership in meeting this mandate. The bill enjoys the support of the National Association of Counties. "This is a costly problem for counties because county governments are responsible for all inmate health care costs," said Larry E. Naake, executive director, National Association of Counties. "Counties accept that responsibility. But it is unreasonable that federal eligibility should be cut off arbitrarily - even before a person has been tried and convicted or acquitted - shifting all their healthcare costs to local taxpayers. We strongly urge Congress to promptly pass this bill and send it to the president's desk for his signature."
02.28.2008	U.S. Representative and Florida Congressional Delegation Co-Chairman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) issued the following statement on today's announced resignation of Scott Morris, Director of Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) Florida Long-Term Recovery Office. share: f t U.S. Representative and Florida Congressional Delegation Co-Chairman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) issued the following statement on today's announced resignation of Scott Morris, Director of Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) Florida Long-Term Recovery Office. "I wish to express my deep gratitude and appreciation for Mr. Morris' leadership and commitment to helping Florida's communities recover from past disasters and prepare for those in the future. His service has been an asset to my constituents and to the entire state of Florida during these trying times, and I wish him the best of luck in all of his future endeavors. "The work of this office in the last three years to help Florida's communities prepare for, respond to, and mitigate the hurricanes and storms that constantly threaten our state has been so critically important. The tremendous safety and economic value that the office provides to our state and so many others reinforces the urgent need for it to be permanently established. The office must also be relevant and active in all present and future disasters. In doing so, FEMA will save taxpayer dollars and lives. The safety and well-being of our communities depend on it." Florida's Long-Term Recovery Office has become a vital component of Florida's and the entire Southeast Region's efforts to cope with hurricanes and tropical storms. Since 2005, the full-time recovery staff has more than tripled the daily reimbursement rate, sent out more mitigation funds to recipients than ever before in FEMA's history, and created the first and only Fraud Prevention Unit within FEMA. The office has also closed down two large scale housing missions - something never accomplished in all of FEMA's history. Today, many of the office's successful techniques first tried in Florida are now being employed throughout the Gulf Coast with equal success. On May 9, 2007, the House of Representatives unanimously adopted an amendment to the Homeland Security Authorization bill authored by Representative Hastings that would keep the office open for at least the next three years. The 2008 Omnibus Appropriations bill (P.L.110-161) included language mandating that the Florida Long-Term Recovery Office remain open until all casework dealing with the 2004 hurricanes is completed and directed FEMA to notify the Committees on Appropriations prior to closing the office. # # # #
02.11.2008	U.S. Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) and Kendrick B. Meek (D-Miami) announced today that they will host a briefing at 2:00 PM in HC-5 of The Capitol on Tuesday, February 12, 2008 honoring Captain Barrington Irving, the youngest pilot and first person of African descent to ever fly solo around the world. share: f t U.S. Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) and Kendrick B. Meek (D-Miami) announced today that they will host a briefing at 2:00 PM in HC-5 of The Capitol on Tuesday, February 12, 2008 honoring Captain Barrington Irving, the youngest pilot and first person of African descent to ever fly solo around the world. Captain Irving will be in attendance and will make a presentation on his journey and new foundation. The briefing follows the unanimous passage of House Resolution 661, a resolution introduced by which honored Captain Irving's achievements last December. The briefing will highlight the initiatives of Experience Aviation, Inc., a not-for-profit organization established by Captain Irving which encourages youth and underrepresented groups to pursue careers in aviation. Irving departed from Opa Locka, Florida on March 23, 2007 and returned on June 27, 2007. His 30,000 mile journey, followed in the media and online by tens of thousands of students and others worldwide, began on March 23, 2007 and took him to 27 cities on four continents. Representatives Hastings and Meek introduced H. Res. 661 with 9 other original cosponsors. The bill passed the House of Representatives with 44 bi-partisan cosponsors on December 11, 2007. # # # #
02.05.2008	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) announced today that he will host "Reclaiming Our Community: Combating HIV/AIDS in Our Backyard," a public forum and discussion addressing the proliferation of HIV/AIDS in South Florida on Saturday, February 9, 2008. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) announced today that he will host "Reclaiming Our Community: Combating HIV/AIDS in Our Backyard," a public forum and discussion addressing the proliferation of HIV/AIDS in South Florida on Saturday, February 9, 2008. The event will be held at the Hurst Chapel A.M.E. Church located at 1617 Silverbeach Road in Riviera Beach. This forum will be a continuation of a series of community discussions hosted by Representative Hastings which began last year in Ft. Lauderdale. "I encourage community leaders, organizations, and the general public to come out and support this important and timely event. It is imperative that we dispel the myths and misperceptions about the issue and implement community centered approaches to curtail this epidemic," said Representative Hastings. "HIV/AIDS has had devastating effects on our lives across community lines. All of us must work together to reduce the racial and ethnic disparities that we unfortunately encounter all too often with this disease. I hope that people will take this event as an opportunity to learn, participate, and help our district take legitimate measures to advocate the plights of those infected and affected by this fatal disease." Statistics and studies show that African Americans continue to be disproportionately affected by HIV/AIDS, with African-American women being the most vulnerable group. Overall, Florida currently ranks third in the nation in the number of HIV/AIDS cases, with some of the highest reported cases occurring in Palm Beach, Broward, and Miami-Dade Counties. This community discussion will address alarming statistics on the reported HIV/AIDS cases in Florida and is a much-needed response to the recent escalation in HIV/AIDS cases in South Florida. An expert panel, including state and federal experts, will discuss means to dispel myths, expand prevention outreach, improve treatment, and address policy issues. Individuals with questions should contact Representative Hastings' West Palm Beach Office at (561) 684-0565. # # # #
02.04.2008	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today reacted to President Bush's Fiscal Year (FY) 2009 budget request which reflects a continuation of the President's seven years of misguided fiscal policy which squandered a $5.6 trillion 10-year surplus and replaced it with a $3.2 trillion deficit share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today reacted to President Bush's Fiscal Year (FY) 2009 budget request which reflects a continuation of the President's seven years of misguided fiscal policy which squandered a $5.6 trillion 10-year surplus and replaced it with a $3.2 trillion deficit. In his request to Congress, the President's budget proposes a deficit of over $400 million in 2009 alone - the second largest in the history of the country. The five biggest deficits in American history have all occurred during President Bush's time in office (2003, 2004, 2005, 2008, and 2009). "The most promising thing about this budget is that it's this President's last," said Representative Hastings. "President Bush and the previous Republican majorities in Congress have mortgaged the future of our country on the backs of our children and grandchildren. They cut and cut and cut the most vital programs our government offers to those most in need while driving our economy into the ground by funding a needless war for oil. The Bush economic record is one of absolute failure which will require years of repair." Some of the largest funding cuts in the Bush Budget include: - $556 billion in Medicare cuts over the next ten years; - $570 million in cuts in 2009 alone for the Low-Income Home Energy Program (LIHEAP), a program which helps low-income Americans pay their energy bills; - Elimination of the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program, a program which has put literally hundreds of police officers on the streets of South Florida; - $500 million in cuts in 2009 to the Social Services Block Grant (SSBG) program and the complete elimination of the program in 2010; - $330 million in cuts in 2009 from the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) budget; - A 35% cut in Environmental Justice programs; and - $5.2 billion in new fees on veterans over the next 10 years. In the state of Florida, the President's budget request also grossly underfunds Everglades restoration and the rehabilitation of the Herbert Hoover Dike. The President's budget includes $77.8 million for the rehabilitation of the Herbert Hoover Dike, nearly 50 percent less in funding than is needed in 2009 to expedite the repairs of the Dike. Further, the President's proposed $215 million for all Everglades restoration efforts is approximately $156 million short of the funding the Everglades actually needs. Finally, the President only included $4.5 million for the design work of the Indian River Lagoon restoration project while budgeting nothing for the actual construction of the Lagoon, a move that will result in further delays to the completion of the Lagoon and other critical restoration projects. "It is simply unacceptable that President Bush is refusing to fully fund expedited repairs of the Herbert Hoover Dike. This is one of the five most vulnerable United States coastal spots, and it could not be more obvious that the President could not care less about accelerating repairs and truly securing our nation's most vulnerable communities," Representative Hastings noted. "President Bush's failure to fund two of the three most critical Everglades restoration project furthers his legacy as a President who has failed to live up to his campaign commitment to clean up the Everglades. It is now up to Democrats in Congress - and likely a Democratic President - to clean up this mess and ensure that Everglades restoration is not further delayed by this President's negligence." # # # #
01.23.2008	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) announced today that he is encouraged by recent work done by the Army Corps of Engineers to initiate construction on a test panel for a cutoff wall and to increase expert reviews and consultation as part of efforts to repair the Herbert Hoover Dike. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) announced today that he is encouraged by recent work done by the Army Corps of Engineers to initiate construction on a test panel for a cutoff wall and to increase expert reviews and consultation as part of efforts to repair the Herbert Hoover Dike. The Dike, which is in desperate need of rehabilitation, was built in the 1930s to protect those living in the communities along the shores of Lake Okeechobee. Representative Hastings secured almost $55 million in the Fiscal Year 2008 Omnibus Appropriations bill to expedite repairs to the Dike. "In order to guarantee the safety and security of my constituents who reside near and around Lake Okeechobee, we need to ensure appropriate and swift rehabilitation of the Dike," said Representative Hastings. "I appreciate the recent progress made by the Army Corps of Engineers to repair the Dike. The innovative engineering technology work on this project is an important step forward in ongoing efforts to stabilize the Dike. I am encouraged by the recent advancements made on a long, stagnant problem, and I pledge to continue to engage our Lake Region communities and push the Army Corps of Engineers to guarantee that the Dike is stabilized as expeditiously and safely as possible." Since the deadly hurricanes of 1928, governments at all levels have joined together to maintain safe levels for Lake Okeechobee and repair the Herbert Hoover Dike to prevent its possible failure. Representative Hastings has been working since 2005 with officials at all levels of government to develop and implement a comprehensive plan to rehabilitate the Dike and prevent any possible flooding of the surrounding communities. On January 19, 2008, the Army Corps of Engineers announced that contractors began construction of a test panel for a cutoff wall in Port Mayaca as part of the rehabilitation of the Herbert Hoover Dike. # # # #
01.08.2008	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) announced today that at his request the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) will convene a public meeting/listening session on Monday, January 14, 2008 at 7:00 PM at the Clayton Hutcheson Agricultural Center in West Palm Beach to discuss the fate of the Terminal Radar Approach Control at Palm Beach International Airport. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) announced today that at his request the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) will convene a public meeting/listening session on Monday, January 14, 2008 at 7:00 PM at the Clayton Hutcheson Agricultural Center in West Palm Beach to discuss the fate of the Terminal Radar Approach Control (TRACON) at Palm Beach International Airport (PBI). The TRACON system guides planes within a 50 mile radius of the airport on their final approaches. In an effort to save money, the FAA has embarked on an ambitious plan to consolidate dozens of TRACON systems throughout the country. Despite overwhelming opposition from air traffic controllers, the South Florida and Treasure Coast Congressional Delegations and local officials, the FAA is attempting to consolidate the TRACONs of all South Florida international airports into one at Miami International Airport (MIA). Representative Hastings has warned that under the FAA's plan, all South Florida airports - domestic and international - will be left without an approach radar system if a natural disaster or terrorist attack were to destroy the TRACON at MIA. The FAA's contingency plan would require that controllers in Jacksonville, an airport more than 350 miles away, direct approaching aircraft not only in their assigned region, but throughout all of South Florida and virtually the entire state without additional staff and technology. "For the sake of imagined efficiency, the FAA is on the verge of jeopardizing the security and functionality of our airspace in South Florida," Hastings said. "It is absolutely necessary for the public to have a chance to say something about it." Representative Hastings has led the fight in Washington to block the FAA's consolidation plan. On three separate occasions since 2006, the House of Representatives has adopted legislative language authored by Representative Hastings blocking the FAA from consolidating the PBI TRACON, expressing Congressional opposition to the unnecessary consolidation of TRACONs in the interest of air system functionality, disaster response, and national security. This listening session will provide a public opportunity for comment on FAA's plans to eliminate the PBI TRACON. Specific information about the meeting: FAA Public Meeting on PBI TRACON Monday, January 14, 2008 - 7:00 PM Clayton Hutcheson Agricultural Center 559 N. Military Trail West Palm Beach, FL 33415 For more information about Representative Hastings' involvement in this issue over the years, visit www.alceehastings.house.gov. # # # #
12.20.2007	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) and a coalition of 24 colleagues today reintroduced legislation to require that federal agencies establish and integrate environmental justice programs into their everyday activities. The Environmental Justice Access and Implementation Act of 2007 establishes offices of environmental justice in almost two dozen federal departments and agencies, promotes agency integration of environmental justice objectives, and increases public access to information about environmental hazards. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) and a coalition of 24 colleagues today reintroduced legislation to require that federal agencies establish and integrate environmental justice programs into their everyday activities. The Environmental Justice Access and Implementation Act of 2007 establishes offices of environmental justice in almost two dozen federal departments and agencies, promotes agency integration of environmental justice objectives, and increases public access to information about environmental hazards. "This legislation will require federal agencies to put their money where there mouth is to meet the expectations of Executive Order 12898," remarked Representative Hastings. "Our communities deserve access to information about the hazards of their immediate environment and have waited well over a decade for the goals set forth by the Executive Order to be met." Executive Order 12898, Federal Actions to Address Environmental Justice in Minority Populations and Low-Income Populations, was signed by former President Clinton on February 11, 1994. This policy statement requires that all appropriate federal agencies collect data on the health and environmental impact of their programs and activities on minority populations and low-income populations and to develop policies to ensure that minority and underserved communities are not adversely impacted by poor environmental, energy, and health policy decisions. Specifically, the Environmental Justice Access and Implementation Act: Establishes Offices of Environmental Justice in agencies which make and implement policy that could disproportionately impact underserved communities; Integrates environmental justice commitments into the core missions of relevant federal agencies; Formally establishes the Interagency Working Group on Environmental Justice and increase its role in ensuring the environmental and health protection of all communities; Formalizes public participation in federal environmental justice initiatives; and Establishes Community Technology Centers to increase public access to information about environmental toxins and contaminants in their communities. Additionally, several important updates to this legislation include: Authorization of specific funding for the establishment of an "Office of Environmental Justice" in each of an expanded group of relevant federal agencies; Refinements to the criteria for the establishment of "Community Technology Centers," to increase accessibility; and Additions of reporting requirements to increase the effectiveness of federal agency implementation and ensure proper Congressional oversight. "For over a decade, agencies have been mandated to examine the impact of their policies on the environmental health of minority and low-income communities. Once we give those mandates true legal standing, we can then turn them into action that directly serves our communities." Representative Hastings added, "Congress must require accountability and conscience in our federal permitting processes and environmental action to reduce the burden on low-income populations and communities of color. The provisions of the Environmental Justice Access and Implementation Act will do just that." ####
12.12.2007	U.S. Representative Hastings today applauded the historic decision of the U.S. Supreme Court and the United States Sentencing Commission to reform the two decade-long discriminatory crack and powder cocaine sentencing guidelines. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today applauded the historic decision of the U.S. Supreme Court and the United States Sentencing Commission to reform the two decade-long discriminatory crack and powder cocaine sentencing guidelines that required 100 times more powder cocaine to warrant the same mandatory minimum prison sentence as crack. "I applaud the landmark Supreme Court ruling and the United States Sentencing Commission's decision to address the disparity between crack and powder cocaine sentencing laws and applying crack sentencing guidelines retroactively," said Representative Hastings. "In the midst of the ‘War on Drugs,' these draconian sentencing guidelines were justified though the false belief that crack and its users posed a greater threat to our society than powder cocaine. Rather than waging war on drugs, this policy waged war on America's poor and minorities. Hundreds of thousands of men and women, the overwhelming number of whom are black, have been convicted through a federal statute that was rooted in propaganda rather than empirical data." In the mid-1980's, crack cocaine became prevalent and was portrayed as a violence-inducing, highly addictive plague of the poor in inner cities. In truth, crack and powder cocaine are chemically similar, with the primary difference between crack and powder cocaine being the cost. Despite this fact, the notoriety surrounding crack led to the passage of a federal sentencing law in 1986 that required 100 times more powder cocaine to elicit the same mandatory minimum sentence as crack. On Monday of this week, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that federal judges have the discretion to give "reasonably" shorter prison terms for crack cocaine crimes to reduce the disparity with crimes involving cocaine powder. Yesterday, the United States Sentencing Commission voted to apply less harsh crack sentencing guidelines retroactively to individuals who were convicted under the old sentencing policy. "This policy perpetuated the destruction of our communities rather than growth and development. It favored imprisonment, not rehabilitation. Now, more than twenty years after the implementation of this drug policy, our prisons, economy and communities are feeling the strain," Representative Hastings said. "As an attorney, former judge, and now Congressman, I have worked tirelessly to ensure that our nation's criminal justice system is truly just. After years of countless attempts to correct this statute on drug criminalization and sentencing, the country has at last taken a crucial first step in the right direction." Representative Hastings is a co-sponsor of H.R. 460, the Crack-Cocaine Equitable Sentencing Act of 2007 and H.R. 2456, the Crack-Cocaine Equitable Sentencing Act of 2005. # # # #
12.11.2007	The U.S. House of Representatives today unanimously passed a resolution honoring Barrington Irving, the youngest pilot and first person of African descent to ever fly solo around the world (H. Res. 661). The resolution was introduced by U.S. Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) and Kendrick B. Meek (D-Miami). share: f t The U.S. House of Representatives today unanimously passed a resolution honoring Barrington Irving, the youngest pilot and first person of African descent to ever fly solo around the world (H. Res. 661). The resolution was introduced by U.S. Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) and Kendrick B. Meek (D-Miami), and encourages the pursuit of more initiatives like Irving's nonprofit organization, Experience Aviation, Inc., which encourages youth and underrepresented groups to pursue careers in aviation. "Barrington Irving is one of the greatest young heroes of our time," remarked Representative Hastings. "His triumph demonstrates that if you reach for the sky, you truly can make it, and in turn, make history. The passage of this resolution is one of many initiatives to come that will reprioritize opportunities in aviation for our youth." "When the younger generation is looking for a role model and hero, they need to look no further than Barrington Irving," said Reprsentative Meek. "This young pilot proved that when you dream big dreams and work hard, the extraordinary is possible. I am honored to call Barrington Irving a constituent." Irving departed from Opa Locka Executive Airport in Opa Locka, Florida on March 23, 2007 and returned on June 27, 2007. His 24,600 mile flight took him to 27 cities around the world where he met with youth as an ambassador of opportunities in aviation. Representatives Hastings and Meek introduced H. Res. 661 with 9 other original cosponsors. The bill passed with 44 bi-partisan cosponsors. ####
12.07.2007	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today encouraged his constituents to acquire the 50th anniversary of the desegregation of Little Rock Central High School commemorative coin before they are no longer available. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today encouraged his constituents to acquire the 50th anniversary of the desegregation of Little Rock Central High School commemorative coin before they are no longer available. The United States Mint has issued 500,000 silver dollar coins to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the desegregation of Little Rock Central High School. The last day to order the significant coin from the U.S. Mint is next Friday, December 14, 2007. Those who are interested can order the coin either at www.usmint.gov or by calling 1-800-USA-MINT (872-6468). "As one entrenched in the effort to desegregate schools in South Florida, I applaud this tribute to the implementation of Brown v. Board of Education," said Representative Hastings. "The integration of Little Rock Central High School was a monumental triumph worthy of a commemorative coin, and I encourage all to seize the opportunity to own this invaluable piece of history." Commemorative coins are authorized by Congress and issued by the U.S. Mint in limited quantities for a limited time. These silver dollars celebrate and honor American people, places, events, and institutions. Under current law, the U.S. Mint produces only two sets of commemorative coins each year. The commemorative coins for 2007 are the Little Rock Central High School Desegregation Coin and the Jamestown 400th Anniversary Coin. The 2007 Little Rock Central High School Desegregation 50th Anniversary Commemorative Coin honors the desegregation of Little Rock Central High School by featuring the high school as it looked in 1957 and the hopeful footsteps of the nine students under the protection of the 101st Airborne Division. In 1957, Little Rock Central High School was the site of the first major national test for the implementation of the U.S. Supreme Court's Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka decision. Its desegregation by nine courageous teenagers, known as the "Little Rock Nine," became a prominent example of equality under the rule of law setting the foundation to allow access for African American students to receive the education that they deserved. In tribute to the advancements made toward achieving equality for all Americans to date, Congress directed the production of these unique silver dollar coins. $10 from the sale of each coin will be directed toward preserving the history of the Little Rock Central High School National Historic Site and share the story of the Little Rock Nine with today's young citizens. The coin represents a unique opportunity for all Americans to partake in the educational effort to teach all Americans about the historical impact of this historic event and their ability to continue making positive change in the world. Representative Hastings was a cosponsor of the original resolution which led to the minting of the Little Rock Central High School Desegregation Commemorative Coin. # # # #
12.05.2007	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) issued the following statement in response to Northern Federal District of Florida Judge Robert Hinkle's ruling this afternoon that the Democratic National Committee (DNC) is not acting illegally in stripping Florida Democrats of their right to have their vote count in the 2008 Presidential Primary Election: share: f t Honoring the 60th anniversary of the Everglades National Park, U.S. Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) and Mario Diaz- Balart (R-Miami) today introduced important bipartisan legislation recognizing the anniversary and dedicating Congress to restoration efforts of this pristine ecosystem. Representatives Hastings and Diaz-Balart are the bipartisan Co-Chairs of the House Everglades Caucus. "Restoring the Everglades remains neither a Democratic nor a Republican issue, but a Florida issue. Our legislation highlights the importance that Florida Members of Congress place on preserving and protecting the Rivers of Grass for all future generations of Americans to enjoy. We led the fight to override the President's veto and pass WRDA, and we will continue our efforts to see this restoration through," said Representative Hastings. "Representative Diaz-Balart and I have been working together to preserve the Everglades for years, and I am pleased to be introducing this resolution with him." "It is a great honor to be the sole Member of Congress representing the entire Everglades National Park. Creating awareness about the importance of the Everglades has always been a priority of mine and this resolution reaffirms Congress' commitment to the preservation and restoration of this natural treasure," said Congressman Diaz-Balart. "I thank Congressman Hastings for joining me in this bipartisan effort and for always being a leader in recognizing the importance of the Florida Everglades." In 2000, the Federal government and the State of Florida embarked on the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan (CERP), the largest environmental restoration effort in history to repair and revive the ecosystem. Just last month, Congress overrode a President Bush veto and passed the Water Resource Development Act (WRDA) of 2007, authorizing $1.8 billion in Everglades restoration funding and reaffirming Congressional support for Everglades Restoration. Original bipartisan cosponsors of the resolution included Representatives Lincoln Diaz-Balart, Allen Boyd, Corrine Brown, Vern Buchanan, Kathy Castor, Ric Keller, Ron Klein, Connie Mack, Tim Mahoney, Kendrick Meek, John Mica, Adam Putnam, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Debbie Wasserman Schultz and Robert Wexler. Florida Senators Bill Nelson and Mel Martinez are planning to introduce companion legislation in the Senate. A copy of the resolution is attached to this release. # # # #
12.05.2007	Honoring the 60th anniversary of the Everglades National Park, U.S. Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) and Mario Diaz- Balart (R-Miami) today introduced important bipartisan legislation recognizing the anniversary and dedicating Congress to restoration efforts of this pristine ecosystem. share: f t Honoring the 60th anniversary of the Everglades National Park, U.S. Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) and Mario Diaz- Balart (R-Miami) today introduced important bipartisan legislation recognizing the anniversary and dedicating Congress to restoration efforts of this pristine ecosystem. Representatives Hastings and Diaz-Balart are the bipartisan Co-Chairs of the House Everglades Caucus. "Restoring the Everglades remains neither a Democratic nor a Republican issue, but a Florida issue. Our legislation highlights the importance that Florida Members of Congress place on preserving and protecting the Rivers of Grass for all future generations of Americans to enjoy. We led the fight to override the President's veto and pass WRDA, and we will continue our efforts to see this restoration through," said Representative Hastings. "Representative Diaz-Balart and I have been working together to preserve the Everglades for years, and I am pleased to be introducing this resolution with him." "It is a great honor to be the sole Member of Congress representing the entire Everglades National Park. Creating awareness about the importance of the Everglades has always been a priority of mine and this resolution reaffirms Congress' commitment to the preservation and restoration of this natural treasure," said Congressman Diaz-Balart. "I thank Congressman Hastings for joining me in this bipartisan effort and for always being a leader in recognizing the importance of the Florida Everglades." In 2000, the Federal government and the State of Florida embarked on the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan (CERP), the largest environmental restoration effort in history to repair and revive the ecosystem. Just last month, Congress overrode a President Bush veto and passed the Water Resource Development Act (WRDA) of 2007, authorizing $1.8 billion in Everglades restoration funding and reaffirming Congressional support for Everglades Restoration. Original bipartisan cosponsors of the resolution included Representatives Lincoln Diaz-Balart, Allen Boyd, Corrine Brown, Vern Buchanan, Kathy Castor, Ric Keller, Ron Klein, Connie Mack, Tim Mahoney, Kendrick Meek, John Mica, Adam Putnam, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Debbie Wasserman Schultz and Robert Wexler. Florida Senators Bill Nelson and Mel Martinez are planning to introduce companion legislation in the Senate. # # # #
11.14.2007	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today applauded the announcement of the signing of a gaming compact between the Seminole Tribe of Florida and the State of Florida. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today applauded the announcement of the signing of a gaming compact between the Seminole Tribe of Florida and the State of Florida. The Compact will allow the Tribe to operate Class III slot machines and banked table card games at its seven existing facilities on tribal lands, including three in Broward County. "This Compact reaffirms the Seminole's sole authority to determine what happens on their land. It also ensures that that the State, too, will benefit from this historic agreement. It is my sincere hope that Governor Crist and the State Legislature will use the added revenue to fund the priorities of our state, including healthcare, education, and infrastructure," said Representative Hastings. "I applaud the Tribe and Governor Crist for their hard work in signing this Compact. I know that it was not easy and appreciate the time and effort on both sides to reach a final solution." Representative Hastings was an early supporter of the Compact and has been a lifetime supporter of the Seminole's inherent right to self-determination. He has been encouraging Governor Crist for months to do everything in his power to reach an agreement with the Seminoles before the U.S. Bureau of Indian Affairs approved the Seminole's Class III gaming application, essentially blocking the State from benefiting from the new gaming rules. # # # #
11.06.2007	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) issued a statement today following the House of Representatives' overwhelming vote of 361-54 to override President Bush's veto of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2007 share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) issued the following statement today following the House of Representatives' overwhelming vote of 361-54 to override President Bush's veto of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2007: "This is a huge win for Florida and an even bigger win for the people of my district. This WRDA is long overdue, and I am euphoric that my House colleagues voted with me to override President Bush's short-sighted and ideologically-driven veto. This overwhelming House vote reaffirms that the President's misplaced priorities are as polluted as the water this bill will clean up. From restoring the Everglades to building the Lake Region Water Treatment Plant in the Glades, finally, we can adequately address the vital water resource needs in my district and throughout Florida." Among other significant projects, WRDA 2007 includes federal funding authorizations of $7.5 million for the Lake Region Water Treatment Plant in Palm Beach County and $1.8 billion to restore the Everglades, including $1.365 billion for the clean-up of the Indian River Lagoon, $375 million for the Picayune Strand, and $80.8 million for the Site 1 impoundment project in Broward, Palm Beach and Miami-Dade Counties. The Senate is scheduled to vote on overriding the President WRDA veto later this week. # # # #
11.02.2007	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) issued a statement today blasting President Bush's veto of the Water Resource Development Act (WRDA) of 2007. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) issued the following statement today blasting President Bush's veto of the Water Resource Development Act (WRDA) of 2007 today: "This veto proves once again how out of step this President is with the priorities of this country. Not only has he refused to give health insurance to 10 million children, but now President Bush is denying clean and safe drinking water to the American people. "The polluted mindset of this Administration is a clear indication that they do not understand the dynamics of pollution in American society and certainly not in my district. I invite the President to drink the water in Western Palm Beach County and smell the water in the Indian River Lagoon. Maybe then he'll realize what he's done to my constituents today. Sadly, I doubt it." Among other significant projects, WRDA 2007 includes federal funding authorizations of $7.5 million for the Lake Region Water Treatment Plant in Palm Beach County and $1.8 billion to restore the Everglades, including $1.365 billion for the clean-up of the Indian River Lagoon, $375 million for the Picayune Strand, and $80.8 million for the Site 1 impoundment project in Broward, Palm Beach and Miami-Dade Counties. Below is a detailed list of South Florida projects vetoed today by President Bush. # # # # U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings' Priorities in WRDA 2007 1. Lake Region Water Treatment Plan, Palm Beach County, (P. 570) The WRDA Conference Report authorizes $7.5 million for funding for the construction of the Lake Region Water Treatment Plant being built to serve Belle Glade, Pahokee and South Bay. 2. Indian River Lagoon (PP. 17-19) The WRDA Conference Report authorizes $1.365 billion for restoration of the Indian River Lagoon South. The project provides for ecosystem restoration, water supply, flood damage reduction, and protection of water quality. 3. Picayune Strand (P. 19) The WRDA Conference Report authorizes $375 million for environmental restoration of Picayune Strand. The Picayune Strand Ecosystem Restoration Plan would help increase freshwater flows to natural areas. 4. Site 1 Impoundment (PP. 19-20): The WRDA Conference Report authorizes $80.8 million for the environmental restoration of Site 1 Impoundment. The project consists of an aboveground reservoir. An inflow pump station will move water into the preserve from the Hillsboro Canal. Additional project components include a seepage control; system and remote-controlled gated culverts. The project is located in Palm Beach, Broward, and Miami-Dade Counties. 6. Hillsboro and Okeechobee Aquifer (P. 723) The WRDA Conference Report includes modifying authorization for the Hillsboro and Lake Okeechobee Aquifer Project to increase the authorized project cost authorized in WRDA 1999 to $42.5 million. 7. Pilot Projects (P. 723) The WRDA Conference Report amends the Water Resources Development Act of 2000 by authorizing a cost increase of the pilot projects from $69 million to $71.2 million, $34.5 million to $35.6 million, $6 million to $8.2 million and $3 million to $4.1 million. 8. Maximum Costs (P. 723) The WRDA Conference Report authorizes a "Maximum cost of Program Authority" program. This provision authorizes the Secretary of the Army to apply the cost growth limits described by Section 902 of WRDA 1986 to the $25 million per project cap and the $206 million aggregate cost cap for Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan projects authorized under subsection 601(c) of WRDA 2000. 9. Credit (P. 723) The WRDA Conference Report includes authorization of credit for construction completed by a non-federal sponsor prior to signing a project cooperation agreement under the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan (CERP). 10. Outreach and Assistance (P. 723) The WRDA Conference Report applies Section 902 Growth Limit to the Additional Program. The Secretary may expend up to $3 million per fiscal year for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2004 to for the Additional Program. 11. Critical Restoration Projects (P. 723) The WRDA Conference Report includes language to increase Federal Funding caps for the Critical Restoration Projects that were authorized in WRDA 1996 from $75 million to $95 million and from $25 million to $30 million, to accommodate cost increases from inflation and minor design modifications since the WRDA 1996 authorization date. 12. Regional Engineering Model for Environmental Restoration (P. 723) The WRDA Conference Report includes authorization of $10 million to conduct a Regional Engineering Model for Environmental Restoration. The language requires the Secretary to complete the development and testing of the regional engineering model for environmental restoration as expeditiously as practicable. The model should be used for environmental restoration in the development of future water resource projects, including projects developed pursuant to section 601 of the Water Resources Development Act of 2000.
11.01.2007	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today introduced a resolution supporting increased Federal and State support for home and community-based services to the elderly and individuals with disabilities of any age. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today introduced a resolution supporting increased Federal and State support for home and community-based services to the elderly and individuals with disabilities of any age. This resolution is being introduced on the first day of National Home Care and Hospice Month. "This legislation highlights the overall cost-effectiveness and improved outcomes in quality care for the elderly and disabled who are furnished health care in their homes or other community settings," said Representative Hastings when introducing the resolution today. "Increasing financial assistance and access to home and community-based services ensures that the quality of care individuals receive in their home and community is just as accessible an option as hospital and institutional attention." Representative Hastings' resolution supports studies which show that individuals who receive home and community-based care have greater life expectancies than those who are moved from everything that is familiar to them and placed in hospitals and other forms of institutional care. A need exists, however, for more training of professionals who will be capable of providing this care. "I wish to extend our sincere appreciation to Representative Alcee L. Hastings and his staff for introducing this important House Resolution which expresses aptly the need for increasing Federal and State support for home and community-based services for elderly and disabled individuals," said Val J. Halamandaris, President of the National Association for Home Care & Hospice. "The projected growth in the need for home care is being driven by demographics and our Nation does not have anywhere near the number of people needed to provide home care services. This is the last great civil rights battle and the least we can do is ensure that the infirm, disabled and dying Americans have the right to be cared for in their homes. I applaud Congressman Hastings for his interest in addressing this challenge." "Through adoption of uniformly high standards and increased training, we can ensure our citizens in need have access to qualified professionals when selecting home and community-based care," concluded Representative Hastings. ****
10.29.2007	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) applauded the U.S. House of Representatives today for passing a bill designating the U.S. Federal Courthouse in Miami after former Chief Judge of the U.S. District Court of Southern Florida C. Clyde Atkins. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) applauded the U.S. House of Representatives today for passing a bill designating the U.S. Federal Courthouse in Miami after former Chief Judge of the U.S. District Court of Southern Florida C. Clyde Atkins. Representative Hastings served on the federal court with Chief Judge Atkins from 1979 to 1989. Representative Hastings issued the following statement: "Judge Clyde Atkins was a voice of reason, hope, and fairness. He was a champion of the less fortunate and sick. Throughout his career, both as an attorney and a judge, Clyde Atkins earned the respect and esteem from people of all walks of life - from the legal community to civil rights activists and everyone in between. "Personally, Clyde was a friend whose loss is still felt today. It is appropriate that Congress name the Miami federal courthouse after him, as it is a fitting tribute to a legacy that will far outlive all of us. "I commend Representative Ros-Lehtinen for her hard work on this bill and deeply appreciate her willingness to work with me and include me in this effort." H.R. 2671 was introduced by Representatives Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Hastings, and the other 23 Members of Florida's Congressional delegation. It passed the House of Representatives today by a voice vote. Senator Bill Nelson introduced a similar bill in the Senate which has since earned the support of Senator Mel Martinez. The Senate has yet to consider the bill. # # # #
10.24.2007	U.S. Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar), Kendrick B. Meek (D-Miami), and Corrine Brown (D-Jacksonville) have called for federal investigations into the acquittal of seven juvenile justice boot camp guards responsible for the death of Martin Lee Anderson in Bay County, Florida. share: f t U.S. Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar), Kendrick B. Meek (D-Miami), and Corrine Brown (D-Jacksonville) have called for federal investigations into the acquittal of seven juvenile justice boot camp guards responsible for the death of Martin Lee Anderson in Bay County, Florida and the treatment of juveniles at juvenile justice boot camps in Florida and throughout the nation. In letters sent to the U.S. Department of Justice and the House Judiciary Committee, Florida's three black U.S. Representatives called for an end to the negligent treatment and violent punishment of at risk youth in juvenile detention facilities. "Significant evidence suggests that discriminatory treatment has frequently occurred at juvenile boot camps. The unfortunate consequence of such treatment has not only been the death of Anderson, but also others in recent years," wrote the Representatives. "The negligence, violent punishment, and disciplinary procedures that many youths within these camps endure reflect a defunct paradigm that by no means rehabilitates at-risk youth, nor serves the intended purposes of the juvenile justice system." Representatives Hastings, Meek, and Brown are currently working with the House Judiciary Committee to convene a hearing to investigate the management of juvenile justice boot camps in Florida and the rest of the country. A copy of the letter to the U.S. Department of Justice follows. --- October 16, 2007 The Honorable Peter D. Keiser Acting Attorney General United States Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530 Dear Attorney General Keiser: We write to ask that you investigate the persistent problems in the juvenile justice system and treatment at juvenile boot camps in Florida and throughout the country. As you may know, seven guards were recently acquitted in the October 12, 2007 verdict of the Martin Lee Anderson case in Bay County, Florida. This outcome has prompted us to contact you with our deep concerns. Press reports indicate that the Department of Justice will conduct an investigation of Anderson's death and other possible civil rights violations associated with the administration juvenile boot camps. We support action on this specific case and ask for this investigation to consider the excessive use of force and criminal negligence that persist throughout other juvenile boot camps in our state and throughout the country. According to testimony taken during the case as well as countless press accounts, significant evidence suggests that discriminatory treatment has frequently occurred at juvenile boot camps. The unfortunate consequence of such treatment has not only been death of Anderson, but also others in recent years, including Omar Paisley. Paisley was denied treatment for a burst appendix in a Miami-Dade County juvenile boot camp and those responsible for failing to act were never held accountable. The negligence, violent punishment, and disciplinary procedures that many youths within these camps endure reflects a defunct paradigm that by no means rehabilitates at-risk youth, nor serves the intended purposes of the juvenile justice system. Thus, any investigation into these cases should thoroughly evaluate the merit and effectiveness of boot camps in rehabilitating youth offenders. A serious investigation of this case will illuminate the injustices and discriminatory administration that pervade our juvenile justice system. Thank you for your consideration of our request. We look forward to your expeditious response. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Corrine Brown Member of Congress Kendrick B. Meek Member of Congress # # # #
10.17.2007	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), Chairman of the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe (U.S. Helsinki Commission) and Congressman John Tanner (D-TN), Chairman of the House Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, sent a letter to House leadership, urging them to not bring the Armenian Genocide Resolution (H.Res. 106) to the floor for a vote. share: f t Send Letter to Pelosi and Hoyer Citing a Critical Time for U.S.-Turkish Relations, Troops Serving in the Region, and Stability in the Middle East Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), Chairman of the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe (U.S. Helsinki Commission) and Congressman John Tanner (D-TN), Chairman of the House Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, sent the following letter to Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) and House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-MD), urging them to not bring the Armenian Genocide Resolution (H.Res.106) to the floor for a vote. On Wednesday, October 17, Hastings and Tanner, along with Representatives John Murtha (D-PA), Robert Wexler (D-FL), and Stephen Cohen (D-TN), will hold a press conference at 11:30 a.m. in H-321 of the Capitol, where they will urge House Leadership to reconsider its decision to bring H.Res.106 to the floor for a vote. (Please find below a copy of the letter) --- October 16, 2007 The Honorable Speaker Nancy Pelosi The Honorable Majority Leader Steny H. Hoyer United States House of Representatives Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Speaker Pelosi and Majority Leader Hoyer: We write to express our concern regarding H. Res. 106, the Affirmation of the United States Record on the Armenian Genocide Resolution. By doing so, we in no way diminish the suffering and tragedy of the Armenian people under the Ottoman Empire, whose memory burns in the hearts and minds of their descendants. Enactment of H. Res. 106, which is directed at actions of the Ottoman Empire, would have serious consequences for the United States' important relationship with modern-day Turkey, a strong NATO ally; and threaten our operations and our troops serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. Turkey, a majority Muslim country, is a secular democracy geographically straddling the bridge between East and West at a time of turmoil and uncertainty for the countries in the region. In addition to being our partner in democracy, Turkey is also a key strategic ally. More than half of the cargo flown into Iraq and Afghanistan comes through Incirlik Air Base and this base would be a key component of any plans for redeployment of our troops in the future. In the wake of passage of H. Res. 106 by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Turkish government has recalled its Ambassador to the United States, Nabi Sensoy, to Ankara for consultations. In addition to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, eight former Secretaries of State and three Secretaries of Defense from the Clinton, Bush I, Reagan and Ford Administrations, have warned that passage of the resolution could imperil our national security interests as well as inhibit efforts toward reconciliation between Turkey and Armenia, including the possible opening of the border. Mesrob II, the spiritual leader of the Armenian Orthodox Community in Turkey has said, "The ‘Armenian Genocide Resolution' pending in the U.S. Congress disrupts both the relations between Turkish people and Armenians in Turkey and between Turkey and Armenia." We urge you to not bring the resolution before the House for a vote at this critical time for our men and women in uniform in the region, and for the stability of the Middle East. Sincerely, Chairman Alcee L. Hastings, M.C. Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe Chairman John S. Tanner, M.C. House Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly ####
10.17.2007	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed H.RES.624 introduced by Congressman Alcee L. Hastings, Chairman of the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe (U.S. Helsinki Commission) and Co-Chair of the Democratic Israel Working Group. H.RES.624, congratulates the government and people of the State of Israel on Israel's first ever appointment to chair a U.N. committee. share: f t Today, the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed H.RES.624 introduced by Congressman Alcee L. Hastings, Chairman of the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe (U.S. Helsinki Commission) and Co-Chair of the Democratic Israel Working Group. H.RES.624, congratulates the government and people of the State of Israel on Israel's first ever appointment to chair a U.N. committee. H.RES.624 was co-sponsored by fellow Democratic Israel Working Group Co-Chair Congressman Gene Green (D-TX) and Helsinki Commissioner Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-AL). "I laud the passage of this resolution by the House of Representatives; however the unfortunate fact is that this is long overdue. It is my hope that Mr. Ron Adam, who has been appointed chair of the U.N. Committee on Program and Coordination will help to normalize Israel's bilateral and multilateral relations with U.N. member states. "I believe Israel should be granted membership on the Security Council in 2019 as well as gain full participation rights within the U.N. For far too long certain member states have used their position on the U.N. to launch baseless attacks toward Israel, while turning a blind eye to the contemptible human rights record of other states -- undermining the United Nation's credibility, integrity, and effectiveness," said Congressman Hastings. ### The Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe, also known as the Helsinki Commission, is a U.S. Government agency that monitors progress in the implementation of the provisions of the 1975 Helsinki Accords. The Commission consists of nine members from the United States Senate, nine from the House of Representatives, and one member each from the Departments of State, Defense and Commerce.
10.10.2007	The U.S. House of Representatives today unanimously adopted an amendment to the National Affordable Housing Trust Fund Act (H.R. 2895) authored by U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) requiring the Federal government to provide disaster and flood insurance counseling services to low- and middle-income families who receive assistance from the Affordable Housing Trust Fund created in the bill. share: f t The U.S. House of Representatives today unanimously adopted an amendment to the National Affordable Housing Trust Fund Act (H.R. 2895) authored by U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) requiring the Federal government to provide disaster and flood insurance counseling services to low- and middle-income families who receive assistance from the Affordable Housing Trust Fund created in the bill. "In many regions of our nation more prone to disasters, appropriate insurance is one of many added costs of homeownership that can push people to the edge," said Representative Hastings on the House floor today. "When you are on the edge, staying in your home or returning to your home after a disaster rests on having the right insurance." Under the National Affordable Housing Trust Fund Act, prior to receiving federal assistance from the Affordable Housing Trust Fund for purchasing a home, applicants are required to complete a counseling program on financial literacy, predatory lending, and foreclosure avoidance. Representative Hastings' amendment expands the counseling requirements to include disaster and flood insurance coverage. "We in South Florida and the Treasure Coast are still living the tragedies of withheld insurance during the 2004 and 2005 hurricanes - and so are the victims of Hurricane Katrina ," Representative Hastings noted. "Knowledge of the specifics and nuances in disaster and flood insurance policies will encourage further financial empowerment and homeownership stability among our nation's most vulnerable populations." In the first nine months of serving in the majority, House Democrats have worked to fulfill their commitment to increasing housing opportunities for working families. They have increased funding for public housing assistance and federal housing opportunities for seniors, as well as improving the Hope VI Grant Program. ####
10.10.2007	The U.S. House of Representatives passed bipartisan legislation today authored by U.S. Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) and Mark Kirk (R-IL) reauthorizing the Tropical Forest Conservation Act (TFCA) of 1998, an important "debt-for-nature" program which allows developing nations to reduce their foreign debt through investment in environmental protection programs. share: f t Officials at Harbor Branch Oceanographic Institution and Florida Aquarium Support Legislation. The U.S. House of Representatives passed bipartisan legislation today authored by U.S. Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) and Mark Kirk (R-IL) reauthorizing the Tropical Forest Conservation Act (TFCA) of 1998, an important "debt-for-nature" program which allows developing nations to reduce their foreign debt through investment in environmental protection programs. The bill (H.R. 2185) also expands the TFCA to include the preservation of coral reefs and marine habitats as eligible activities for debt relief and makes resources available for environmental stewardship that would otherwise be of the lowest priority in a developing country. "For the past seven years, the Tropical Forest Conservation Act has simultaneously provided debt relief for developing countries while promoting increased international tropical forest conservation. The reauthorization and expansion of this legislation will further ongoing conservation efforts and expand conservation to additional endangered marine environments while providing debt relief to previously excluded countries such as Chile, Jordan, Egypt, and Poland," Representative Hastings said. "Florida has been at the forefront of protecting endangered forests and coral reefs, constantly inventing strategies to rehabilitate these fragile marine habitats. This bill is truly a win-win-win for Florida, the United States, developing nations, and the entire planet." The legislation credits qualified developing nations for each dollar spent on a comprehensive tropical forest, coral reef or coastal habitat preservation or management programs. It also reduces debt by investing locally in programs which strengthen indigenous economies by creating long-term management policies that will preserve the natural resources upon which local commerce is based. To date, 11 nations have received debt credits under the Tropical Forest Conservation Act: Bangladesh, Belize, Botswana, Columbia, El Salvador, Guatemala, Jamaica, Panama, Paraguay, Peru and the Philippines. Dr. Brian Lapointe, Senior Research Scientist of the Harbor Branch Oceanographic Institution in Fort Pierce, Florida, strongly supported the reauthorization and expansion of the TCFA to include coral reefs and marine habitats. "Too many coral reefs are already permanently damaged. So few healthy reefs remain that those who are just old enough to start diving now will never know what a live and vibrant coral reef system should look like. It is imperative that restoration efforts be initiated right away," Dr. Lapointe said today. "Without this bill, more reefs will get extinguished and fewer people will experience the kaleidoscope of colors, light and life that make coral reefs one of our world's natural wonders. Congressman Hastings has a long and unwavering track record of speaking up for those who cannot do so for themselves. On behalf of Harbor Branch and the millions of children who otherwise will only see healthy reefs in pictures and movies, we thank Congressman Hastings for championing such an urgent cause." Thom Stork, Executive Director of the Florida Aquarium in Tampa, Florida, also expressed his support for the legislation. "The Florida Aquarium is excited and grateful for Congressman Hastings and Congressman Kirk's wisdom and foresight in including coral reefs in the TFCA reauthorization," said Mr. Stork. "Further, we are eager to bring our coral preservation expertise and unique coral health protocols to the table for each and every coral conservation/debt for nature initiative." The Tropical Forest and Coral Conservation Act is supported by The Nature Conservancy, Conservation International, World Wildlife Fund and Wildlife Conservation Society. The House agreed to H.R. 2185 by a voice vote today. The Senate companion bill (S. 2020) was reported out favorably by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on September 11, 2007 and currently awaits a floor vote. The Tropical Forest Conservation Act will expire this year without reauthorization. # # # #
10.04.2007	Two members of Congress today mounted a legal challenge to their national political party over its unprecedented plan to deny up to 4.2 million culturally, socially and economically diverse Florida voters a say in picking the next Democrat nominee for president. share: f t Two members of Congress today mounted a legal challenge to their national political party over its unprecedented plan to deny up to 4.2 million culturally, socially and economically diverse Florida voters a say in picking the next Democrat nominee for president. Florida's senior U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson and the head of the state's U.S. House democratic delegation, Rep. Alcee L. Hastings, filed the lawsuit with other Florida voters in federal court in Tallahassee naming as defendants former Vermont Gov. Howard Dean and the Democratic National Committee Dean heads. The suit contends Dean and the DNC "would impose [voter] disenfranchisement on a massive scale" by stripping Florida of its 210 delegates to the national convention in Denver next year. The DNC imposed that penalty after Florida's Republican-controlled Legislature moved the state's primary to Jan. 29 - jumbling the sequence of first-in-the-nation contests. The suit argues Florida voters have a fundamental right to participate in selecting a presidential nominee. The state's delegates to the national convention are chosen proportionately based on the primary vote. It also contends voters are being denied interaction with presidential candidates, because the DNC has barred campaign appearances in Florida except for private fundraisers. The suit further charges that the defendants are engaging in an election scheme that will result in "impairing minority voter participation," which would be a violation of the Voting Rights Act of 1965. "Every one of the more than 4.25 million registered Democratic voters in Florida will be completely disenfranchised and their constitutional rights ... rendered meaningless," Nelson and Hastings said in the lawsuit. Also named as a defendant in the 26-page complaint is Florida's Secretary of State Kurt Browning, who's job it is to oversee the taxpayer-funded $18 million primary next January. Before filing the lawsuit, Nelson and Hastings offered Dean several alternatives to the DNC punishing Florida, such as getting states with early-primary status to move ahead one week; or, holding a Florida Democratic convention after the primary to formally ratify the vote; or, mounting a last-ditch effort to get state lawmakers to push the primary back a week or so. But Dean, in a Sept. 21 letter, rejected the proposed solutions as not in compliance with national party rules. Dean has said Florida's Jan. 29 primary must be a non-binding beauty contest, and the state party must choose its delegates in a later caucus. The lawsuit asks a federal judge to find that basic legal and constitutional rights of voters are being violated. Although the DNC is a political group, it operates in tandem with the state and performs a public function that directly affects the right of Floridians to have their votes count. Thus, the lawsuit contends, its actions should be subject to the basic protections of the U.S. Constitution. In the past, courts have held that an individual has a constitutional right to vote in a primary election and that a political party cannot take actions that result in denying, diluting or diminishing that vote. The lawsuit argues the right to vote trumps the rights of a political party including to enforce its rules for primary elections. "It's a case of fundamental rights vs. party rules," Nelson said. "As to our right to vote, and have that vote count, there can be no debate," "One would have thought that we wouldn't need this type of discussion 42 years after passage of the Voting Rights Act," said Hastings. "The right to vote and have your vote matter is the cornerstone of our democracy." While the suit speaks for Democrats, Republicans in Florida soon may face a similar problem. National Republican Party leaders are threatening to strip half the state's GOP delegates to its national convention because of the earlier primary date. A permanent solution for primary disputes beyond 2008 requires new legislation, according to both Nelson and Hastings. Nelson, with Sen. Carl Levin, of Michigan, has filed a bill that would divide the nation into six regions, and would establish six primary dates for randomly selected states from each region. Hastings also has introduced legislation with four House colleagues from Florida establishing a rotating regional primary system consisting of four geographic regions whose primary dates rotate over a period of 16 weeks. Both bills would give a fair say in choosing nominees to voters from smaller and larger states, and end the dominance of Iowa and New Hampshire. The dispute over the 2008 primaries is the latest in a series of controversial election problems touching Florida. "In 2000, Florida was the center of an unprecedented and ultimately unsuccessful battle to secure a recount in the presidential election," the lawsuit states. "That extraordinarily intensive process . . . resulted in the rejection of tens of thousands of paper ballots that, if counted, would have changed not just an election, but the future course of national and world events." The lawsuit was filed on behalf of the two lawmakers by Miami attorney Kendall Coffey of Coffey Burlington. # # # The Honorable Alcee L. Hastings Statement on Filing of Election Lawsuit Against the DNC October 4, 2007 The following statement was issued today by U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) on the lawsuit that he and Florida's senior Senator Bill Nelson (D) filed today against the Democratic National Committee (DNC) regarding Florida's primary election. "For me, this lawsuit is not about Florida's order in the primary chain. Nor is it about the rules and process at the DNC - however little sense they may make. This lawsuit is about preserving the foundation of our democracy, which remains our right to vote and have that vote count. "Blacks and other minorities in Florida have long faced discrimination at the polls. I would have hoped that we in Florida wouldn't still be talking about preserving one's right to vote 42 years after the passage of the Voting Rights Act...or 7 years after the debacle known as the 2000 election... or less than one year after 18,000 votes went missing - and still are missing - in Sarasota. Yet we are. And that's just sad. "But if my Florida citizenship of 71 years has taught me anything, it is that the struggle continues. Sometimes we need to educate immigrants from Miami. And sometimes even medical doctors from Montpelier, Vermont. Regardless, the struggle continues. "For the DNC to say to the 4th largest contingency of Democrats in the nation that their votes will not matter in next year's presidential primary is not only shocking and ironic, but we believe is illegal. "Realize, it's not just Democrats. The RNC is also poised to strip Florida Republicans of at least half of their delegates for the same the reason the DNC has stripped ours. "There are few issues in this country as paramount as protecting Americans' right to vote and have that vote count. The 30 members of the DNC Rules Committee sitting in some conference room in Washington, DC do not have the authority to steal that right away from Florida's voters. Not yesterday. Not today. Not ever. "We filed this lawsuit with the memories of the mistakes of the past, our hope for the present, and our conviction for a better future. "When Florida voters go to the polls on January 29 to vote for the nominee of their choice, it must not only be a lesson in civic participation, but an exercise in democracy. The further disenfranchisement of Florida voters is just not acceptable." # # # #
10.03.2007	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings today blasted President Bush's veto of critical bipartisan legislation expanding the State Child Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) and providing over 10 million children with healthcare insurance. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings today blasted President Bush's veto of critical bipartisan legislation expanding the State Child Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) and providing over 10 million children with healthcare insurance. "The President's veto of the SCHIP legislation was irresponsible and inexcusable. Through his actions, literally hundreds of thousands of low-income children in Florida have been told today by the President that they can't have healthcare insurance. Rather than supporting our kids, the President is cutting their access to health care," said Representative Hastings. "How can we even attempt to spread democratic values in other nations when we have a President who actively chooses to turn his back on our nation's most vulnerable population? The President has made his choice in this matter known. I choose our nation's children and will continue to fight for their health and well-being by voting to override this veto." While approximately 303,000 kids are currently enrolled in Florida CHIP, there are more than 464,000 children in Florida eligible for SCHIP or Medicaid but not enrolled because of funding shortfalls. The bill vetoed by President Bush today would have provided nearly $530 million in additional funding to Florida in fiscal year 2008 alone to enroll literally hundreds of thousands of kids into the program. This funding is now in jeopardy because of the President's actions. Representative Hastings will vote to override the President's veto when the House of Representatives reconsiders the bill. # # # #
10.02.2007	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) led Florida House Democrats today in writing to President George W. Bush urging him to reconsider his plans to veto the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2007. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) led Florida House Democrats today in writing to President George W. Bush urging him to reconsider his plans to veto the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2007. "When Congress passed the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan (CERP) in 2000, it committed the Federal government to being an equal partner with the State of Florida to restore the Everglades and protecting the diverse ecosystem that is currently half its original size. However, passage of the water bill has been stymied since 2002, causing severe delays to Everglades' restoration efforts and leaving the federal-state partnership unfulfilled," wrote the Democratic Members. "You have regularly indicated support for Everglades restoration projects included in the WRDA bill and we thank you. Yet nothing could be more damaging to overall restoration efforts than vetoing this bill." The WRDA 2007 bill includes federal authorizations for water infrastructure projects critical to Florida and the nation, including $1.8 billion for Everglades restoration projects, $7.5 million for the Lake Region Water Treatment Plant in western Palm Beach County, and $1.5 million for a study on expediting structural improvements to the Herbert Hoover Dike surrounding Lake Okeechobee. While in the Majority, Congressional Republicans failed to pass a WRDA since 2002. The bill finally passed both the House and Senate this year with broad bi-partisan support. Nevertheless, President Bush is still threatening to veto this vital bill. The full text of the letter follows: October 2, 2007 The Honorable George W. Bush The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. Bush: As Members of the Florida Congressional Delegation, we write to urge you to reconsider your veto threat of the Water Resource Development Act (WRDA) of 2007. Among other important nationwide water resources studies and infrastructure projects authorized in this bill, this year's WRDA bill contains water projects vital to the restoration of Florida's Everglades. Preserving and protecting the Everglades is a priority for the State of Florida and is necessary to returning the natural water flow, reviving habitat for more than 60 threatened and endangered species, establishing a reliable water supply for Floridians, and providing flood control to many of our communities. When Congress passed the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan (CERP) in 2000, it committed the Federal government to being an equal partner with the State of Florida to restore the Everglades and protecting the diverse ecosystem that is currently half its original size. However, passage of the water bill has been stymied since 2002, causing severe delays to Everglades' restoration efforts and leaving the federal-state partnership unfulfilled. Nationwide, delays in passing a WRDA bill has created a severe backlog of projects, drastically increasing the costs of the pending water projects. Our State of Florida is already facing significant challenges to funding Everglades restoration efforts. The price of land acquisition and construction materials has escalated since the passage of the last WRDA bill. According to a July report released by the Government Accountability Office, many important Everglades Restoration projects are facing delays-if they are even to get completed at all. You have regularly indicated support for Everglades restoration projects included in the WRDA bill and we thank you. Yet nothing could be more damaging to overall restoration efforts than vetoing this bill. As you know, the current WRDA bill has broad bipartisan based support in Congress. On September 24, 2007, the Senate overwhelming approved the bill by 81 to 12 and on April 19, 2007, the House of Representatives approved the bill by a significant majority of 394 to 25. We urge you to not veto this critical bill that is of extreme significance to the nation's economy and environment, and particularly to preserving and restoring the Everglades. Thank you for your attention. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings, M.C. Corrine Brown, M.C. Robert Wexler, M.C. Allen Boyd. M.C. Debbie Wasserman Schultz, M.C. Kendrick B. Meek, M.C. Ron Klein, M.C. Tim Mahoney, M.C. Kathy Castor, M.C. # # # #
09.21.2007	The House of Representatives today approved the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Reauthorization Act of 2007, which includes legislation authored by U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) blocking the FAA from moving Palm Beach International Airport's (PBI) Terminal Radar Approach Control (TRACON) system to Miami International Airport (MIA). share: f t The House of Representatives today approved the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Reauthorization Act of 2007, which includes legislation authored by U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) blocking the FAA from moving Palm Beach International Airport's (PBI) Terminal Radar Approach Control (TRACON) system to Miami International Airport (MIA). The bill also requires that PBI's new control tower, on which construction is scheduled to begin later this year, include an operating TRACON. "I've been saying for years that the FAA's TRACON consolidation plan in South Florida runs the grave risk of leaving our air traffic system vulnerable during critical times and setting a dangerous precedent for a process that excludes stakeholders from decisions that impact their lives," said Representative Hastings. "I am not willing to sacrifice safety just to save a few dollars. Eliminating PBI's TRACON is just not safe." The TRACON system guides planes within a 50 mile radius of the airport on their final approaches. In an effort to save money, the FAA has embarked on an ambitious plan to consolidate dozens of TRACON systems throughout the country. Despite overwhelming opposition from the South Florida and Treasure Coast Congressional Delegations and local officials, the FAA is attempting to consolidate the TRACONs of all South Florida international airports into one at MIA. Representative Hastings has warned that under the FAA's plan, all South Florida airports - domestic and international - will be left without an approach radar system if a natural disaster or terrorist attack were to destroy the TRACON at MIA. The FAA's contingency plan would require that controllers in Jacksonville, an airport more than 350 miles away, direct approaching aircraft not only in their assigned region, but throughout all of South Florida and virtually the entire state without additional staff and technology. "With Representative Hastings' leadership, we have secured safety and necessary redundancy in our South Florida air traffic control system in the case of a natural disaster or even worse," said Shane Ahern, President of the National Air Traffic Controllers Association Local at PBI. "The Hastings Amendment will allow for future growth and expansion of air travel in South Florida - which we all know is happening as we speak. Keeping a TRACON at PBI is a huge win for South Florida and the flying public." Representative Hastings has been leading national efforts for the past four years to block the FAA from consolidating America's TRACONs. The House of Representatives has twice adopted amendments authored by Representative Hastings prohibiting the FAA from moving forward on its consolidation plan. After the House voted to block FAA TRACON consolidation in 2006, Republicans refused to complete the Fiscal Year 2007 appropriations process and the Hastings Amendment did not become law. In June 2007, the House again adopted the Hastings Amendment which now awaits action in the Senate. The FAA Reauthorization Act also now awaits Senate action. ####
09.20.2007	U.S. Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) and Kendrick B. Meek (D-Miami) introduced a resolution this week honoring Barrington Irving, the youngest pilot and first person of African descent to ever fly solo around the world. share: f t U.S. Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) and Kendrick B. Meek (D-Miami) introduced a resolution this week honoring Barrington Irving, the youngest pilot and first person of African descent to ever fly solo around the world. The resolution also encourages the pursuit of more initiatives like Irving's nonprofit organization, Experience Aviation, Inc., which encourages youth and underrepresented groups to pursue careers in aviation. "It is my hope that this bill brings awareness to the achievements that have come out of South Florida and young people will see that it is possible to reach their dreams," said Representative Hastings. "There are just not enough young people pursuing carriers in aviation and the opportunities are there, which have been brought to light by the achievements of Barrington Irving." "Barrington Irving is a good friend, and I am proud of his accomplishments as a friend, as his Congressman and as an African American," said Representative Meek. "He is a true role model for our youth and someone everyone in our community can look up to," said Representative Meek. Irving departed from Miami, Florida on March 23, 2007 and returned on June 27, 2007. His 24,600 mile flight took him to 27 cities around the world, where he met with youth as an ambassador of opportunities in aviation. Representatives Hastings and Meek introduced H.Res. 661 with 9 other original cosponsors. # # # #
09.18.2007	U.S. Representative and Florida's Congressional Delegation Co-Chairman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) led Florida Democrats today in a letter to Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) David Paulison urging him to reconsider FEMA's decision to terminate the Agency's Florida Long-Term Recovery Office and resolve to make the Office permanent. share: f t U.S. Representative and Florida's Congressional Delegation Co-Chairman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) led Florida Democrats today in a letter to Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) David Paulison urging him to reconsider FEMA's decision to terminate the Agency's Florida Long-Term Recovery Office and resolve to make the Office permanent. "The Florida Long-Term Recovery Office is one of Florida's most important tools we have to respond and mitigate hurricanes and other disasters. It makes zero sense for FEMA to take away our first line of defense against disasters in the middle of an actively predicated hurricane season," said Representative Hastings. "For FEMA to terminate this office that has beyond proven its value and need is a terribly shortsighted approach. FEMA should seriously assess the extent of funding and lives that would be saved by making the office permanent and reconsider its decision." FEMA's Florida Long-Term Recovery Office was established in 2005 in response to the 2004 hurricanes and has since become a crucial underpinning of Florida's efforts to prepare and respond to disasters. For the past two years, work done by the Office has greatly contributed to reduced costs in disaster response as well as the saving of lives. The Office has been successful in expediting recovery efforts and public assistance reimbursements to state and local governments while also providing significant mitigation funding and guidance to local governments working to reduce their risk from future storms. "The Florida Long-Term Recovery Office has proven to be an invaluable asset to the State's ability to prepare and respond to disasters while also providing critical response and mitigation support to the entire Southeast region," wrote Representative Hastings and his colleagues. "The planned closure of this office would not only be premature and ultimately more costly, but could also prove perilous in the likely event of a future hurricane." On May 9, 2007, the House of Representatives unanimously adopted an amendment authored by Representative Hastings that would keep the office open for at least the next three years. Nevertheless, FEMA has announced its continued plan to close the office. A copy of the letter follows. --- September 18, 2007 The Honorable David Paulison Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency 500 C Street S.W. Washington, D.C. 20472 Dear Director Paulison, We write to urge the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to ensure that the FEMA Florida Long-Term Recovery Office in Orlando, Florida, remains open. As you know, on May 9, 2007, the House of Representatives went on record in unanimous agreement that the Florida Long-Term Recovery Office should remain open for a period of at least three years. The planned closure of this office would not only be premature and ultimately more costly, but could also prove perilous in the likely event of a future hurricane. To that end, we respectfully request that you reconsider your decision to terminate the Florida Long-Term Recovery Office and resolve to make the office permanent. Created in response to the hurricanes of 2004, Florida's Long-Term Recovery Office has become a vital component of our state's efforts to cope with and respond to the hurricanes and tropical storms which constantly threaten the state. For example, the full- time recovery staff, well-versed in state and federal policies, has rectified mistakes made by previous emergency management teams. Moreover, the permanencies of the staff and the relationships they have cultivated with local governments, non-profits, communities, and federal officials have increased efficiency of benefit distribution and decreased response times to disasters, saving both lives and taxpayer dollars. The more permanent office has also taken preventative steps to mitigate the impact of future disasters through pilot projects, and partnerships they have built over time. While no dollar amount can be placed on the lives saved through the efficient and immediate disaster response of a local standing office, such an office will prove to save thousands in costs associated with terminating and then re-establishing an office every time a disaster strikes Florida. Leaving aside the consistency in staffing and decision making and thorough knowledge of the Florida landscape developed in a standing operation, the cost of travel, lodging, and other expenses associated with deploying an emergency response operation are nearly two and a half times the cost of the standing operation. When neither the local nor state emergency management offices have sufficient funding to handle disasters, the burden to assist the disaster ridden communities, consequently, falls on the Federal government. Given the nearly $80 billion Congress passed in emergency supplemental appropriations as a result of the 2004 and 2005 hurricane seasons, it is crucial to not only find ways to respond to disasters more quickly, but also to do so in the most cost efficient manner. A more permanent FEMA Long-Term Recovery Office has continued to provide numerous benefits not only to Florida, but to the entire nation. In only its first four months of existence, the Office was able to more than double its ability to reimburse recipients for public assistance, from $1 billion to over $2 billion, notwithstanding the fact that the office was dealing with additional storms at the time. Since the Long-Term Recovery Office opened in Florida, more mitigation funds have gone out to recipients than ever before in FEMA's history. The Long-Term Recovery Office has also closed down two large scale housing missions - something never accomplished in all of FEMA's history. Even more, many of the Office's successful techniques first tried in Florida are now being employed throughout the Gulf Coast with equal success. One argument that has been used by you and others at FEMA against making the Long-Term Recovery Office in Florida permanent has been the Agency's opposition to permanent field offices. We note, however, that recently a FEMA Long-Term Recovery Office has been established in Alaska as part of the Fiscal Year 2007 Homeland Security Appropriations Act. In 2006, Congress also established Long-Term Recovery Offices in Mississippi, Louisiana, Alabama and Texas. As a disaster prone state that has suffered from devastating hurricanes in the last few years, doesn't it make good policy sense for Florida to have a permanent Long-Term Recovery Office as well? The Florida Long-Term Recovery Office has proven to be an invaluable asset to the State's ability to prepare and respond to disasters while also providing critical response and mitigation support to the entire Southeast region. This season, forecasters have predicted as many as five major hurricanes, many which will likely impact our state. Therefore, we respectfully request that you keep Florida's Long-Term Recovery Office, essential to both Floridians and to the America people, permanently open. Thank you for considering this very important request. We look forward to your expeditious response. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Corrine Brown Member of Congress Debbie Wasserman Schultz Member of Congress Ron Klein Member of Congress Kendrick B. Meek Member of Congress Robert Wexler Member of Congress Allen Boyd Member of Congress Tim Mahoney Member of Congress Kathy Castor Member of Congress ####
09.06.2007	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today introduced legislation establishing a regional presidential primary system, ensuring that voters in every state have an equal opportunity to decide America's presidential candidates. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today introduced legislation establishing a regional presidential primary system, ensuring that voters in every state have an equal opportunity to decide America's presidential candidates. Representative Hastings' bill, the Regional Presidential Primary and Caucus Act of 2007, is being introduced while Florida's Republican and Democratic state parties find themselves at odds with their national parties which are attempting to strip the state parties of their delegates at their 2008 national conventions. "Today's Presidential primary system is broken. There is no one state in this country that is more important than the next, and the thought that New Hampshire and Iowa are guaranteed to go first is absolutely asinine," said Representative Hastings. "Establishing a new regional primary system by which Americans can select their presidential nominees is the future. If the national parties are blind to this reality, then Congress must open up their eyes." The Regional Presidential Primary and Caucus Act of 2007 establishes four geographic regions and four regional primary/caucus dates in each presidential election year. Under the bill, beginning in 2012 and on a rotating basis during each presidential election year, states in one region will hold their presidential primary elections on the first Tuesday in March. States in the next region will hold their primary elections on the first Tuesday in April, states in the next region on the first Tuesday in May, and states in the final region on the first Tuesday of June. The order of regions will rotate in each of the four years, ensuring that all states have the opportunity to hold their primary election first in the cycle once every four presidential elections. "Out of this year's mess can and must come sound public policy. Primary elections were never intended to pit one state against another. At the end of the day, all votes must be counted and all votes must actually count," Representative Hastings stated. "The regional primary system which I and others are proposing is fair, equitable and reliable. It treats every state equally and ensures that voters from every corner of the U.S. will not be disenfranchised by an outdated primary system." Representative Hastings' bill is the companion bill to S. 1905, which was introduced by Senators Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Joe Lieberman (I-CT), and Lamar Alexander (R-TN). ####
09.06.2007	U.S. Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) and Ron Klein (D-Boca Raton) sent a letter today to the Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) expressing concern over the sharp rise of wild Burmese pythons in and around the Everglades National Park. share: f t U.S. Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) and Ron Klein (D-Boca Raton) sent a letter today to the Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) expressing concern over the sharp rise of wild Burmese pythons in and around the Everglades National Park. The Burmese python is an exotic constrictor species that has been found breeding in increasing numbers in natural areas of Southern Florida. More than 350 of the South Asian snakes have been found invading the park since 2002, with others appearing along Florida's west coast and farther north in Florida. Invasive species such as this python have the potential to adversely affect Everglades restoration efforts and all of the ecosystem's inhabitants. "The increasing presence of the Burmese pythons in the Everglades and surrounding areas engenders a very real, expensive, and dangerous problem for Florida and the entire nation. The pythons directly threaten the endangered species and plants of this unique ecosystem, and importantly, the people visiting and living in the Everglades and surrounding communities. The Federal government must act immediately and appropriately to address this escalating danger," said Representative Hastings. "When I was elected, I promised to make Everglades restoration a top priority. Thus far, Congress has come through by authorizing billions of dollars for various projects in the Water Resources Development Act of 2007. But preserving the indigenous species of the Everglades is also a critical component of Everglades restoration. That's why we must address the Burmese python population. Recent reports show that the population appears to be growing in the Everglades, putting in jeopardy a wide variety of natural species. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service must act now and list the Burmese python as an injurious species so that federal and state efforts to control the Everglades python population can have an impact," said Representative Klein. The letter sent by Representatives Hastings and Klein urges the USFWS to immediately consider adding the pythons to a list of "injurious species" under the Lacey Act, prohibiting the importation of the pythons into the country as well as interstate transportation. The letter also recommends the creation of a task force to evaluate the USFWS' injurious listing process top reduce backlogs and expedite the process. A copy of the letter follows. --- September 5, 2007 Mr. H. Dale Hall, Director United States Fish and Wildlife Service 1849 C Street, N.W. Mailstop 3238 MIB Washington, DC 20240 Dear Mr. Hall: We write to express our support for the Burmese python injurious animal petition submitted to your office on June 23, 2006 under the Lacey Act (42 U.S.C. §18). As you know, the Lacey Act's injurious wildlife provision serves as the primary regulatory safeguard from invasive animal species introductions in the United States. Given the well-documented increases in wild Burmese python sightings in and around the Florida Everglades and the recent discovery of the federally-endangered Key Largo wood rat in the stomach of a Burmese python, the United States Fish and Wildlife Serve (USFWS) should take immediate action and fast track the injurious wildlife review of this harmful invasive species. State and federal agencies, including the USFWS, have been rushing to develop and implement python control programs in Florida before this species becomes more widespread. Unfortunately, Burmese pythons continue to be legally imported in astonishing numbers. Since 2000, over 67,000 Burmese pythons have been imported into the United States. Restricting importation of the Burmese python will not in itself remove the established python population in Florida. Nevertheless, if we are to successfully control this emerging threat, all segments of the introduction pathway, particularly importation should be addressed. We also strongly encourage you to begin an internal review of the USFWS' injurious animal listing process. According to a recent analysis of the USFWS' regulatory program, the average time between initiation and final actions of listing reviews has increased from less than one year during the mid-1900s to over four years in the last decade. We recognize that substantial resources are required to properly complete these reviews and are well aware of the financial limitations under which the USFWS regulatory branch finds itself. However, the Lacey Act cannot be effective if regulatory reviews are not completed in a timely fashion. To this end, we respectfully request that a task force be formed to review the USFWS' injurious listing process and promptly make recommendations to ensure that the Lacey Act is implemented commensurate with the contemporary challenges we face with invasive species. Thank you for your consideration of our requests. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact us. We look forward to your expeditious response. Sincerely, s/ Alcee L. Hastings s/ Ron Klein Member of Congress Member of Congress # # # #
08.29.2007	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation is awarding a $9 million grant to Ft. Lauderdale Executive Airport (FXE) to relocate a parallel taxiway that currently does not meet the Federal Aviation Administration's (FAA) runway safety requirements. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation is awarding a $9 million grant to Ft. Lauderdale Executive Airport (FXE) to relocate a parallel taxiway that currently does not meet the Federal Aviation Administration's (FAA) runway safety requirements. "This grant will help ensure the future safety of all of those who use Ft. Lauderdale Executive Airport every day," said Representative Hastings. "FXE is an important part of the South Florida transportation network and economy. I am so pleased that the federal government is making this necessary investment in the airport and encouraging its continued growth to meet the needs of the flying public." Representative Hastings was instrumental two years ago in convincing U.S. Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) officials to expand customs hours at FXE. Increased CBP hours at FXE allowed the airport to meet increased demand and assisted in the elimination of flight diversions to Ft. Lauderdale/Hollywood International Airport (FLL), immediately reducing traffic movements at FLL by as much as 6%, or nearly 8,000 flights per year. # # # #
08.29.2007	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (FL-23) and U.S. Representative Tim Mahoney (FL-16) called on the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to ensure that an adequate supply of safe emergency housing would be available in the event of a disaster in Florida in a letter to FEMA Director Paulison. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (FL-23) and U.S. Representative Tim Mahoney (FL-16) called on the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to ensure that an adequate supply of safe emergency housing would be available in the event of a disaster in Florida in a letter to FEMA Director Paulison. In response to recent reports that the travel trailers FEMA was using to temporarily house disaster victims in the Gulf Coast contained high levels of formaldehyde, FEMA decided to temporarily suspend the installation, sale, transfer or donation of travel trailers or park model recreational vehicles currently in its inventory. To date, FEMA has not provided the starting or ending dates for the air quality testing of the travel trailers or information on what alternative forms of emergency housing are being considered in the event the travel trailers are not available at the time the next disaster strikes. Follow this link to see the letter ####
08.21.2007	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) announced today that he will host a public forum on Saturday, August 25 on Reclaiming Our Community and Combating HIV/AIDS in Our Backyard. Representative Hastings hosted a similar event in Broward County last month with a successful turnout of over 200 concerned citizens. share: f t The event will be held at Palm Beach Community College's Dolly Hand Cultural Arts Center in Belle Glade from 1:00 PM-2:30 PM. The address of the Center is 1977 College Drive, Belle Glade, FL 33430. This public forum continues Representative Hastings' effort to expand the dialogue on HIV/AIDS by furthering the discussion of the alarming statistics regarding HIV/AIDS cases in South Florida, particularly Palm Beach County. Racial and ethnic disparities within the HIV/AIDS population remain a major concern that is still not sufficiently addressed on a national level. To add to this unfortunate reality, African-American women slated as the most vulnerable group in recent years. An expert panel will discuss means to dispel myths, expand prevention outreach, improve treatment, and address policy issues. Representatives from the following agencies will attend and participate: Palm Beach County Health Department C. L. Brumback Health Center Glades Health Initiative, Inc. NAACP "I invite my constituents, along with local community leaders and organizations to share in this public discussion. Few health issues are of greater concern to Palm Beach County than the spread of HIV/AIDS. As a U.S. Representative, I have fought consistently to make sure Palm Beach receives adequate funding to care for those in need. The fight to combat HIV/AIDS is ongoing and we must work together to reclaim our backyard through dispelling the myths and implementing community centered approaches to eradicate HIV/AIDS altogether." Individuals with questions should contact Representative Hastings' West Palm Beach Office at (561) 684-0565. # # # #
08.20.2007	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), Chairman of the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe sends letter to Secretary Rice calling on U.S. to make a serious commitment in helping Iraqi refugees and internally displaced populations. share: f t Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), Chairman of the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe (U.S. Helsinki Commission) and Special Representative on Mediterranean Affairs for the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe's (OSCE) Parliamentary Assembly, sent the following letter to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, expressing grave concern over the massive displacement of Iraqis and the impending humanitarian crisis rapidly ensuing in the region. In particular, the letter highlights the need for the United States to address this devastating situation with strong financial support, either through bilateral assistance or funding for international organizations that are working directly with the refugee and internally displaced populations. In addition, the letter requests that Secretary Rice provide Congress with updates on the progress made to date by the Iraq Refugee and Internally Displaced Persons Task Force and other divisions of the U.S. Department of State. Currently, Iraqis are the third-largest displaced population in the world and the fastest-growing refugee population globally. The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) estimates that there are some 2.2 million Iraqis displaced internally and at least another 2.5 million Iraqis who have sought refuge in neighboring countries such as Jordan and Syria. (Please find below a copy of the letter) August 20, 2007 The Honorable Condoleezza Rice Secretary of State U.S. Department of State 2201 C Street NW Washington, DC 20520 Dear Secretary Rice: As Special Representative on Mediterranean Affairs for the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE, I write with grave concern regarding the massive displacement of Iraqis and the impending humanitarian crisis rapidly ensuing in the region. I have traveled extensively to the region, including a visit to Jordan in May of this year where I learned first hand of the plight of the refugees and their impact on the society and government of Jordan, and I believe the United States has a moral obligation to spearhead efforts to assist the growing Iraqi refugee populations. As you know, Madam Secretary, continuing sectarian violence in Iraq has forced a mass migration of Iraqis from their homes. Iraqis are now the third-largest displaced population in the world and the fastest-growing refugee population globally. The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) estimates that there are some 2.2 million Iraqis displaced internally and at least another 2.5 million Iraqis have sought refuge in neighboring countries such as Jordan and Syria. The flood of Iraqi refugees has created a huge burden on the resources of primarily the Jordanian and Syrian governments, while Lebanon, Egypt and other neighboring countries are impacted as well. Jordan currently hosts an estimated Iraqi refugee population of 750,000. This influx is alarming in a country of just 6 million people, especially considering the increasing presence of Islamic militants in Jordan over the last decade. While Jordanian leaders and many local and international non-governmental groups are taking significant steps to respond to the refugees' basic needs, education, health care and even water access remain limited. As you know, in January, Jordan closed its borders to Iraqis because it cannot absorb more people into this resource-poor kingdom. Despite this, Jordan has not seen significantly increased economic assistance from its top ally - the United States - to fund its schools, hospitals, and public infrastructure. Syria, as well, is straining under the pressure of hosting 2.5 million Iraqi refugees, as it is the only country which has kept its border open. According to the Syrian government, Syria spends more than $830,000,000 per year for registered Iraqi students to attend school, and receive medical treatment and food. In addition, according to the government, Syria spends approximately $1.8 billion per year to subsidize food, heating oil, gasoline, electrical power and water for the Iraqi refugees. As a result of soaring rent costs, overcrowded schools, rising crime, health problems, and concerns about the vulnerability of young, unemployed Iraqis to extremist influences, Syria is now struggling to absorb these refugees. The security situation in Jordan, Syria, and other host countries is rapidly deteriorating. Tension is rising among host communities, oversaturated with displaced populations, who, themselves, lack access to basic services, and Iraqi refugees angered by their deteriorating life circumstances. The destabilizing nature of large refugee flows, the need to enroll children in school so they won't remain idle, and the skewing of sectarian balances in host countries may very well lead to a breakdown of law and order in the host countries. In a July 26, 2007 meeting of several of the host countries' leaders to address the Iraqi refugee crisis, Jordanian delegates estimated they would need more than $1 billion in emergency assistance and Syria estimated they would need more than $250 million in similar assistance to adequately ensure an effective degree of security within their respective countries and to safeguard their borders. If the United States does not make a serious commitment to help the Iraqi refugee populations in these countries soon, terrorist groups may fill the void in these areas of need. The United States has a responsibility to provide leadership in addressing this expanding humanitarian crisis. I appreciate that our government has already taken several measures to address this dire situation, including establishing the Iraq Refugee and Internally Displaced Persons Task Force in February of this year. I am, nevertheless, concerned that we are not doing enough. A larger part of the United States' efforts to address the devastating refugee situation must derive from strong financial support, either through bilateral assistance or funding for international organizations that are working directly with the refugee and internally displaced populations. Jordan clearly needs additional bilateral aid to deal with the growing humanitarian and security concerns resulting from the massive influx of Iraqi refugees. I respectfully request that a significant amount of any future monies appropriated to Jordan, other unrestricted host countries, and legitimate international organizations working in the region is specifically designated for refugee assistance. I would also appreciate receiving from you an update on the progress made to date by the Task Force and other divisions of the State Department in addressing the Iraq refugee crisis. Clearly, the prolonged massive displacement of Iraqi citizens has the potential to lead to a broader regional crisis with major security implications. I urge your increased attention to the Iraq refugee and IDP crisis and look forward to your prompt response. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings, M.C. Chairman ### The Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe, also known as the Helsinki Commission, is a U.S. Government agency that monitors progress in the implementation of the provisions of the 1975 Helsinki Accords. The Commission consists of nine members from the United States Senate, nine from the House of Representatives, and one member each from the Departments of State, Defense and Commerce.
08.03.2007	Calls President Bush's Veto Threat "irresponsible and foolhardy." U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) hailed yesterday's passage of the Water Resource Development Act (WRDA) of 2007 which included an authorization of $7.5 million for the Lake Region Water Treatment Plant in Palm Beach County and several other critical Everglades Restoration projects. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) hailed yesterday's passage of the Water Resource Development Act (WRDA) of 2007 which included an authorization of $7.5 million for the Lake Region Water Treatment Plant in Palm Beach County and several other critical Everglades Restoration projects. Although not originally included in the House WRDA bill, Representative Hastings successfully secured the authorization for the project in the Conference Report. The Lake Region Water Treatment Plant is being constructed to serve the underserved Glades communities, and Representative Hastings has made it one of his top priorities to secure federal funding for the Plant. "This authorization reaffirms the Federal commitment to build the Lake Region Water Treatment Plant and opens the door for larger Federal appropriations to help fund it," said Representative Hastings, "the construction of this plant is critical to ensuring the people of Western Palm Beach County and in the Glades have access to clean water to drink at affordable rates. No one should be without clean affordable water." Palm Beach County Commissioner Jess R. Santamaria, who represents the Glades region, also voiced his appreciation for the inclusion of the authorization for the Lake Region Water Treatment Plant, noting, "Congressman Hastings has for many years recognized the importance of providing clean water for the residents of the Glades and again has capitalized on his position in The United States House of Representatives to help make the Lake Region Water Treatment Plant a reality." As Co-Chairman of Florida's Congressional Delegation, Representatives Hastings was also successful in leading efforts to securing federal authorizations for $1.8 billion to restore the Everglades, a unique national treasure. The Conference Report included authorization for three vital Everglades restoration projects: the Indian River Lagoon Project, the Picayune Strand Restoration Project, and the Site 1 Impoundment Project in Broward, Palm Beach, and Miami-Dade Counties. The Conference Report also included language modifying the cost increases for several previously authorized projects, totaling an additional $6 million dollars and the expedited completion of the Modified Water Deliveries Project to accelerate the natural flow of water into the Everglades. Finally, the Conference Report includes $1.5 million for a study of the future sustainability of the Herbert Hoover Dike. "My colleagues from Florida and I have been pushing Congress for years to authorize these vital Everglades projects. This new Congress made passing WRDA a priority and I am pleased that the Conference Report includes billions of dollars crucial to my district and the entire State of Florida to help protect and restore the Everglades' diverse ecosystem," Representative Hastings said. "Today's success builds upon previous Everglades Restoration funding successes of this year. With the passage of this bill, the federal-state partnership-long ignored by previous Congresses-will now be restored." Congress has not approved a water resources bill since 2000. The House overwhelmingly approved the WRDA Conference Report late yesterday evening. President Bush has already issued a veto threat for this bill. "The President's veto threat of WRDA is further proof of how out of touch he is with the priorities of this country," said Representative Hastings. "I sincerely hope that he'll reconsider his position. It would be irresponsible and foolhardy of him to veto a bill that is so desperately needed in South Florida and throughout the country." ####
07.26.2007	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) adds two crucial amendments to Transportation-HUD Appropriations for FY 2008, which will have major positive impacts for South Florida. share: f t The House of Representatives late last night passed the Transportation, Treasury, and Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2008 after adopting two amendments authored by U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (FL-23) which, if signed into law, will have major positive impacts on South Florida. The House unanimously adopted an amendment authored by Representative Hastings allocating no less than $20 million for safety and security in public housing communities throughout the country. Representative Hastings offered his amendment just weeks after a woman was gang raped and she and her son beaten in Dunbar Village in West Palm Beach. Until 2002, the Public Housing Drug Elimination Program existed under the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). However, in 2001, the Bush Administration announced that the Program had a limited impact and did not reflect HUD's core mission. Since then, the Administration has maintained that it is not responsible for providing security at its public housing facilities. When the Drug Elimination Program was consolidated with HUD's Public Housing Operating Fund, a grant of $168,000 for security services was cut from the West Palm Beach Housing Authority, which oversees Dunbar Village. "As a result of this attack and recent escalation of crime at Dunbar, people in this community are literally afraid to come out of their homes," said Representative Hastings during consideration of his amendment. "Unfortunately, it takes action such as this one for us to open our eyes and for Congress to begin reversing funding trends and program adjustments that have left our communities vulnerable." The House also overwhelmingly approved another amendment authored by Representative Hastings blocking the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) from moving Palm Beach International Airport's Terminal Radar Approach Control (TRACON) system to Miami International Airport. The final vote tally for Representative Hastings' amendment was 268-158. During debate on his amendment, Representative Hastings noted that the FAA's plan would leave all South Florida airports without an approach radar system if a natural disaster or terrorist attack were to destroy MIA's TRACON. The FAA's contingency plan, as presented to Representative Hastings, would require that controllers in Jacksonville, an airport more than 350 miles away, direct approaching aircraft not only in their assigned region, but throughout all of South Florida and virtually the entire state without additional staff and technology. The House approved the same amendment last year authored by Representative Hastings, but it was never signed into law and the FAA accelerated its consolidation efforts in South Florida. "This is not a question of whether or not consolidation can technologically be done. It can be done, and it is being done. On the contrary, this is a question of should it be done and what is Congress willing to risk," Representative Hastings said during debate on his amendment. "The FAA's TRACON consolidation runs the grave risk of leaving our air traffic system vulnerable during critical times and setting a dangerous precedent for a process that excludes stakeholders from decisions that impact their lives. This is not a risk that Congress should be willing to take." Both amendments now await Senate consideration. ####
07.26.2007	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today introduced the Path to Success Act, legislation which will promote community-centered partnerships to combat gang violence. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today introduced the Path to Success Act, legislation which will promote community-centered partnerships to combat gang violence. "The Path to Success Act serves as an important piece of legislation to address a pressing social dilemma that has permeated American society, successfully wreaking havoc, fear, and violence indiscriminately in urban and rural communities alike," said Representative Hastings when introducing the bill today. "Gang related offenses have peaked to astronomical numbers, making youth gangs an endemic feature of American life. Most of these gang members are engulfed in a cyclical culture of poverty, illiteracy, and homelessness which contribute to excessive recidivism rates." In an effort to reduce recidivism rates among juvenile ex-offenders, Representative Hastings' bill authorizes the Secretary of Education to award grants to community colleges that agree to enter into and maintain partnerships with juvenile detention centers by providing juvenile ex-offenders with a supportive learning environment where they can attain marketable skills and credentials needed for the constructive re-entry into society. Under the bill, Community Colleges will work with different partners to employ intervention strategies to divert at-risk youth from crime by providing counseling, academic or vocational training, and professional development to eligible participants enrolled in the program. "By promoting communal networks, the Path to Success Act provides opportunities for the community to be instrumental in administering programs designed to reduce recidivism among ex-gang offenders and deter gang violence and membership among other at risk youths," noted Representative Hastings. "It is impossible for one agency to unilaterally solve intractable problems. That is exactly why every worthwhile effort requires collaboration and partnering among organizations to resolve the issue we see before us in this day and age. It is with this understanding that this legislation cultivates partner-centric approaches to mitigate and eventually eliminate gang violence and membership." ####
07.23.2007	The U.S. House of Representatives today unanimously passed the National Underground Railroad Network to Freedom Reauthorization Act of 2007 (H.R. 1239) which protects the currently jeopardized Network to Freedom of the National Park Service by providing $2.5 million annually for the Network and related grants. share: f t The U.S. House of Representatives today unanimously passed the National Underground Railroad Network to Freedom Reauthorization Act of 2007 (H.R. 1239) which was introduced by U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar). The legislation protects the currently jeopardized National Underground Railroad Network to Freedom of the National Park Service by providing $2.5 million annually for the Network and related grants. "The Network to Freedom is a key feature that diversifies engagement in interpretive opportunities of our national park system," said Representative Hastings. "Black history is American history, and it is time for us to take a stand for the future of our National Parks and American history." Established by Congress in 1998, the Network to Freedom currently encompasses 300 affiliate sites, facilities, and program nationally in 28 states and the District of Columbia. Interest in the history of the Underground Railroad continues to increase, but a projected budget shortfall of more than 79% by 2011 could result in staffing shortages that would diminish collaboration between the Network affiliates. Representative Hastings' bill remedies the shortfall by authorizing more operating funds for administrative support. "In this polarized historical moment of American politics, remembering the Underground Railroad as a unifying narrative in our history could not be timelier," Representative Hastings said on the House floor today. "The sacrifice at the risk of death made by conductors and travelers of the Underground Railroad was an unprecedented contribution to the abolition of slavery. I am confident that this bill will protect the interpretive interests of our National Park System by providing the necessary support staff and oversight for the Network to Freedom to exist in perpetuity." # # # # Representative Hastings introduced H.R. 1239 with Representative Michael Castle (R-DE) and 26 other original cosponsors. The bill passed with 67 bi-partisan cosponsors.
07.23.2007	Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (FL-23) and Congressman Tim Mahoney (FL-16) today announced the awarding of a $1.3 million federal grant for runway construction at the St. Lucie County International Airport. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Transportation. share: f t Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (FL-23) and Congressman Tim Mahoney (FL-16) today announced the awarding of a $1.3 million federal grant for runway construction at the St. Lucie County International Airport. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Transportation. "St. Lucie International will play a critical role in the future growth and successes of the Treasure Coast. This grant, which will help expand operations at the airport without sacrificing flight training schools, is a welcomed step forward. Most importantly, it is represents a responsible and safe approach toward growing the airport," said Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (FL-23). "This federal grant will help the St. Lucie Airport improve safety and operations for the benefit of our community. It is important that the airport continue to plan for future needs by improving infrastructure and enhancing their ability to adjust to the needs of travelers coming into and out of St. Lucie. This grant will assist the airport in doing just that," said Congressman Tim Mahoney. "The efforts of Congressmen Alcee Hastings and Tim Mahoney are much appreciated for their support in securing funding of an additional $1.3 million to continue construction on a new runway and parallel taxiway at the St. Lucie County International Airport. This new runway will enhance safety by separating training operations from the main airfield area, add capacity to meet future needs, and provide a benefit for those communities impacted by noise from training traffic," said Diana D. Lewis, Airport Director, St. Lucie County International Airport. The funding will be used to enhance safety and capacity at St. Lucie County International Airport by constructing an additional runway and taxiway system that will be used for flight training. In addition, the funding will be used to relocate a Florida Power and light transmission line associated with the construction of the runway. For more information, contact St. Lucie County International Airport Director Diana Lewis at 772-462-1732.
07.19.2007	An expert panel will engage in a community discussion to dispel myths, expand prevention outreach, improve treatment, and address policy issues. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) announced today that he will host "Reclaiming Our Community: Combating HIV/AIDS in Our Backyard," a public forum and discussion on Saturday, July 28, 2007. The event will be held at the African American Research Library in Ft. Lauderdale from 1:00 PM-2:30 PM. This community discussion will address alarming statistics on the reported HIV/AIDS cases in Florida. This event is a much needed response to recent statistics which reveal that African Americans are still disproportionately affected by the disease. Even more distressing, statistics have shown that African-American women are the most vulnerable group. Overall, Florida currently ranks third in the nation in the number of HIV/AIDS cases, with some of the highest reported cases occurring in Broward, Palm Beach and Miami-Dade Counties. An expert panel will discuss means to dispel myths, expand prevention outreach, improve treatment, and address policy issues. Representatives from the following agencies have already confirmed their participation: United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS); Florida Department of Health Bureau of HIV/AIDS; Broward County Health Department; and Racial and Ethnic Approaches to Community Health (REACH 2010). "I encourage community leaders, organizations, and the general public to come out and support this important and timely event," said Representative Hastings. "It is imperative that we dispel the myths and misperceptions about the issue and implement community centered approaches to curtail this epidemic. HIV/AIDS has had devastating effects on our lives across community lines. All of us must work together to reduce the racial and ethnic disparities that we unfortunately encounter all too often with this disease. I hope we take this event as an opportunity to learn, participate, and help our district take legitimate measures to advocate the plights of those infected and affected by this fatal disease." Individuals with questions should contact Representative Hastings' Ft. Lauderdale office at (954) 733-2800. # # # #
07.17.2007	Representative Hastings secures desperately needed rehabilitation funds for the dike which protects communities along the shores of Lake Okeechobee. share: f t WASHINGTON, DC - The House of Representatives is set today to approve the Energy and Water Appropriations Bill for Fiscal Year 2008 which includes $55.8 million secured by U.S. Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) for repairs to the Herbert Hoover Dike. The Dike, which is in desperate need of rehabilitation, was built in the 1930s to protect those living in the communities along the shores of Lake Okeechobee. "My constituents who reside in the communities surrounding the Herbert Hoover Dike are well aware of the potential for the Herbert Hoover Dike to fail and the subsequent catastrophic flooding in South Florida that would ensue," said Representative Hastings. "I am pleased that the House of Representatives realized the dire need to provide for the safety and security of communities in the Glades and around the Lake region. After today, the House will be on record in support of the necessary funding to expeditiously repair the Dike. I hope the Senate will follow suit and include this vital funding in its bill as well. I will be doing everything in my power to urge them to do just that. We can not afford another day to go by without acting." U.S. Representative Tim Mahoney (FL-16), who represents western portions of Lake Okeechobee, also voiced support for this important rehabilitation project. "I would like to thank Congressman Hastings for helping to secure this important funding for the Herbert Hoover Dike," said Representative Mahoney. "The Herbert Hoover Dike is in need of rehabilitation in order to protect against possible flooding in the event of a major storm. This funding meets the Army Corps of Engineers request for funding for fiscal year 2008 and is a major victory for our community." Since the deadly hurricanes of 1928, governments at all levels have joined together to maintain safe levels for Lake Okeechobee and construct and operate the Herbert Hoover Dike, which surrounds the Lake. The Army Corps of Engineers and the South Florida Water Management District have realized that the Dike - constructed over 70 years ago -is deteriorating and could potentially fail under extreme circumstances and stress. Representative Hastings has been working since 2005 with all officials at all levels of government to develop and implement a comprehensive plan to rehabilitate the Dike and prevent any possible flooding of the surrounding communities. The impacts of the 2004-2005 hurricane season on the Dike, combined with the dike failures during Hurricane Katrina and a May 2006 SFWMD report describing the Dike as posing a "grave and imminent danger," have brought increased attention to well-being of the Herbert Hoover Dike and the potential for its failure. Representatives Hastings and Mahoney were also successful in securing $4 million in funding for completing construction of the St. Lucie Inlet in Martin County. Additionally, under the leadership of Representative Hastings and others, the House Energy and Water Appropriations bill also includes $162.5 million for South Florida Everglades Ecosystem restoration efforts. The House is expected to approve the Energy and Water Appropriations bill later today. The bill awaits action in the Senate and an eventual Conference Report which Congress hopes to complete before September 30, 2007. # # # #
07.13.2007	Post Trip Analysis of Political Situation, Bilateral Meetings and Visits to Babi Yar and Famine-Genocide Memorials and the Chornobyl Zone share: f t From July 5 to 9, 2007, Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), Chairman of the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe (U.S. Helsinki Commission) and Co-Chairman Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD) and House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-MD), a former Chair of the U.S. Helsinki Commission led a Congressional delegation to Ukraine for the 16th Annual Session of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe's (OSCE) Parliamentary Assembly. House Majority Leader Hoyer was the highest ranking Member of Congress to ever attend the session and was joined by U.S. Helsinki Commissioners Representatives Robert B. Aderholt (R-AL), G.K. Butterfield (D-NC), Mike McIntyre (D-NC), Louise McIntosh Slaughter (D-NY), Christopher H. Smith (R-NJ) and Hilda L. Solis (D-CA) as well as Representatives Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Doris Matsui (D-CA), Michael McNulty (D-NY) and Gwen Moore (D-WI). On July 9, the OSCE PA adopted the Kyiv Declaration, which expresses regret at the lack of progress in resolving so-called "frozen conflicts" in the OSCE region and recommends strengthened action in several fields including migration and energy and environmental security, anti-Semitism and democracy in Belarus. This Declaration is the result of five days of work by the 250 parliamentarians who participated in the session and will be sent to the governments of the 56 OSCE participating States. (For more information on the Kyiv Declaration, please visit http://www.oscepa.org/) While in Kyiv, the delegation held direct talks with President Viktor Yushchenko on the political situation in Ukraine. "It was clear from our meeting with the President that the state of affairs here remains unsettled. And while the situation is not resolved, it is important to note an agreement has been reached, which I and my colleagues in the delegation welcome. The May 27 agreement resolves this political crisis through pre-term parliamentary elections scheduled for September 30, and it is my sincere hope that this extremely important agreement is honored and implemented," said Chairman Hastings. House Majority Leader Hoyer added, "This trip comes at an important time in Ukrainian history; however, our message is clear. The people of Ukraine deserve to participate in free and fair elections to ensure the integrity of their democratic process continues to be preserved and protected." Members of the delegation also visited the Babi Yar Memorial with Rabbi Alexander Duchovny, Chief Progressive Rabbi of Kyiv and the Ukraine Union of the Progressive Jewish Congregations, where they laid a wreath in tribute to the more than 100,000 Ukrainians killed there during World War II - including 33,000 Jews from Kyiv that were shot in a two-day period in September 1941. This was one of the worst massacres of the Holocaust. In addition, the delegation visited the Famine-Genocide Memorial (1932-33), where they met with survivor Eugenia Dallas. Ms. Dallas spoke of her experience as a famine survivor and what she had to do in order to survive. The memorial is dedicated to the millions of Ukrainians who died in one of the largest man-made famines to take place during the 20th century. Congressman McIntyre noted, "I was touched by Ms. Dallas' story and by visiting this memorial. It is imperative that we raise awareness here in Washington of this terrible tragedy in an effort to ensure that this never happens again." The delegation also hosted a reception for parliamentarians from the United Kingdom and Canada where Chairman Hastings noted, "I am proud to stand with my friends from Canada, the United Kingdom and United States and I believe that it is important to recognize the long historical bonds our nations share. This historic partnership has faced challenges in the past; however the United States stands shoulder to shoulder with Britain and Canada and looks forward to continuing this unbreakable bond." The delegation also travelled to Chornobyl and visited the site where on April 26, 1986, the fourth reactor of the Chornobyl Nuclear Power Plant exploded, releasing radioactive materials across Europe. While in Chornobyl the group visited the "ghost town" of Pripyat located right next to the nuclear plant, where after the explosion in 1986, its nearly 50,000 residents were told that they must leave immediately only taking their passports and money, never to return again. Senator Cardin noted, "I am very pleased to have travelled to Chornobyl to witness first hand what took place here in 1986. The devastation of this explosion will never be forgotten, but I am glad to see that the Chornobyl Nuclear Plant is at a turning point and is working to repair the damage that was done." In addition, the delegation also held bilateral meetings with parliamentarians of the Russian Duma, Ukrainian parliamentarians, as well as with parliamentary delegations from the Mediterranean Partners for Cooperation. Lastly, during the Annual Session, Congresswoman Hilda Solis was elected as Vice Chair of the General Committee on Democracy, Human Rights and Humanitarian Questions for the OSCE PA. This Committee is responsible for addressing humanitarian and human rights-related threats to security and serves as a forum for examining the potential for cooperation within these areas. Congressman Hastings and Senator Cardin noted, "Hilda's two decades of public service is truly exemplified by her commitment to the guiding principles of the OSCE. In Congress, she has been a leader in the bipartisan Congressional Caucus for Women's Issues and is an outspoken advocate for issues of importance to women and families. Hilda has also continued to play a tremendous role on the OSCE PA forum on gender issues. We are honored to serve with Hilda on the U.S. Helsinki Commission and know that she will be an excellent representative of the United States in her new post." ### The Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe, also known as the Helsinki Commission, is a U.S. Government agency that monitors progress in the implementation of the provisions of the 1975 Helsinki Accords. The Commission consists of nine members from the United States Senate, nine from the House of Representatives, and one member each from the Departments of State, Defense and Commerce.
06.28.2007	The House today passed the Interior and Environment Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2008 after unanimously adopting an amendment authored by U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) dedicating $1 million to preserve the National Underground Network to Freedom. share: f t The House today passed the Interior and Environment Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2008 after unanimously adopting an amendment authored by U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) dedicating $1 million to preserve the National Underground Network to Freedom. The amendment serves as an extension of the ongoing work that Representative Hastings has been doing to ensure that Underground Railroad sites are preserved for future generations. "Members on both sides of the aisle agree that the National Underground Railroad Network to Freedom is a phenomenal resource of the National Park Service," said Representative Hastings on the House floor. "Our amendment is not just about preserving black history. It is about preserving American history, and we cannot let our history be forgotten. Indeed, once Congress establishes a phenomenal program such as this, it should be ready to take the necessary action to ensure its perpetuity. This is our past and we must be faithful stewards of it." In addition to this amendment, the Interior and Environment Appropriations bill also includes over $200 million championed by Representative Hastings and others for the continued restoration of Florida's Everglades. The House also defeated an attempt to further open up Florida's coasts to off-shore oil drilling. Further, the bill included language authored by Representative Hastings in 2005 blocking the Bush Administration from abandoning a 1994 Executive Order requiring federal departments and agencies to consider issues of environmental justice when making energy and environment-related decisions. At the request of Representatives Hastings and Hilda Solis (D-CA), the bill included $7 million for environmental justice programs at the Environmental Protection Agency and Department of the Interior, a $2 million increase from the previous year. "The funding levels in the underlying bill make clear the change in priorities of this new Democratic Congress," Representative Hastings said when kicking off debate on the bill. "This bill refocuses our nation's priorities to ensure that all Americans have access to clean water and air, as well as appropriately addressing climate change and conservation, all of which have not been seen since Democrats last controlled this body in 1994... This bill restores our promise to America's underserved minority communities and to our children to ensure that our cherished land, water and air will be preserved for generations to come." # # # #
06.28.2007	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) unveiled today his newly designed and user-friendly official website. share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (FL-Miramar) unveiled today his newly designed and user-friendly official website. Representative Hastings' website, which can be found at www.alceehastings.house.gov, will serve as an additional resource of information and assistance to the citizens of Florida's 23rd Congressional District. The website features links in English, Spanish, and Creole. In 2004, Representative Hastings became the first Member of Congress to provide information to constituents in Creole. "The Internet has become such an important tool in today's world. I am pleased to extend this incredible resource to the people of Florida's 23rd Congressional District. This site is an extension of my office, and it is an extension of me. Importantly, this new site gives me and my staff the ability to update information on it immediately to ensure that my constituents receive up-to-date information as soon as it becomes available," said Representative Hastings. "The truth of the matter is, however, no matter how much information is placed on any website, the Internet is not readily available to so many in my district, the majority of who are minorities or those living in rural areas. These individuals - elementary, middle, and high school students included - find themselves at a competitive disadvantage not as a result of their abilities, but rather due to their localities. The digital divide must no longer be an excuse for lack of progress." Representative Hastings' new website provides residents of Florida's 23rd Congressional District with the following services: Informing Constituents: Representative Hastings' new site provides visitors with access to issue statements outlining Representative Hastings' views on the many important issues of the day. Visitors can also view Representative Hastings' voting record and the legislation which he has introduced and cosponsored throughout his tenure in the House of Representatives. Recent press releases are also viewable from the site. Providing Constituent Services: Featuring information and links in Spanish and Creole, the site provides visitors with information on how Representative Hastings and the staff can assist with immigration, Social Security, Medicare, and other federal programs and agencies. The site provides visitors with the necessary tools to apply for student loans, and it lists information about visiting Washington, DC, including information on public tours, hotel reservations, and getting to and around the city. South Florida residents can also place an order for an American flag to be flown over the U.S. Capitol. Contacting Congressman Hastings: Representative Hastings' new site provides residents of Florida 23rd Congressional District with the ability to e-mail him directly, as well as sign up for monthly e-mail alerts on the work that the Representative and staff is doing on their behalf. Video Clips of Statements and Speeches: Representative Hastings' new site includes video clips of Representative Hastings addressing the House of Representatives on a variety of issues. Calendar of Meetings: In an effort to further disclose his official activities to his constituents and the public, Representative Hastings' new website includes a calendar featuring a list of meetings held by Representative Hastings and his staff with constituents, world leaders, and others in Florida and Washington, DC. A Resource for Teachers and Students: Representative Hastings' new site can serve as an excellent resource for teachers, students, and parents. It includes links to federal agency "Kid's Pages," as well as information about the history of Florida and the United States. The site includes links to information about Internet safety, and provides college students with an opportunity to apply for an internship in any one of Representative Hastings' three offices. Providing Constituents with Grant Opportunities: Representative Hastings' new site features detailed information about how South Florida companies, not-for-profits, and residents can apply for and receive federal grants. Linking South Florida to Washington: Representative Hastings' site provides visitors with the ability to link to every major governmental entity in South Florida and Washington, including cities, counties, Native American tribes, state and federal departments and agencies, and the Legislative and Judicial branches. The site also includes links to major South Florida tourist attractions, major newspapers, sports teams, and airports. The website also includes a video greeting from Representative Hastings, a photo gallery, lists information about Hastings' Heroes, a list of South Florida's civic leaders recognized by Representative Hastings for their outstanding commitment to their community, and gives visually impaired users an option to increase the font size of the website to ensure easy usage. Representative Hastings' new site was designed and developed with input and advice provided to Representative Hastings and all Members of Congress from various not-for-profit organizations specializing in how to maximize constituent outreach on the Internet. # # # #
05.22.2007	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) testified before the House Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests, and Public Lands to urge the passage of his legislation, H.R. 1239, the National Underground Railroad Network to Freedom Reauthorization Act of 2007. share: f t The bill requires that the National Parks Service spend no less than $2 million each year and provide adequate staffing to ensure the future protection of the National Underground Railroad Network to Freedom. "The sacrifice at the risk of death made by conductors and travelers of the Underground Railroad was an unprecedented contribution to the abolition of slavery. Standing in opposition to the degrading institution of slavery, resources and shelter for escaping slaves was offered by many concerned Americans," said Representative Hastings during his testimony. "It is crucial that we do not settle for preserving only a portion of our history. The current legislation pending before you today reflects an authorization for a modest funding increase that would bolster the capacity of the Network to Freedom so that the National Parks Service can continue its valuable work." Established by Congress in 1998, the Network to Freedom encompasses 300 affiliate sites, facilities, and program nationally in 28 states and the District of Columbia. Interest in the history of the Underground Railroad continues to increase, but a projected budget shortfall of more than 79% by 2011 could result in staffing shortages that would diminish collaboration between the Network affiliates. Sites in Florida include: Southeast Archeological Center of Tallahassee, The Family Heritage Museum of Bradenton, Bill Baggs Cape Florida State Park of Key Biscayne, and the Fort Jefferson site administered in Homestead. "Our bill will help the Network to Freedom continue to facilitate partnerships and assist in interpreting and commemorating the historical network of buildings, interpretive centers, museums, geographic areas and routes that associated with the movement to resist slavery," Representative Hastings concluded. "This is not just black history. It is American history. This is our past and we must be faithful stewards of it. We cannot let our history be forgotten." A copy of Representative Hastings' full testimony follows. -- Testimony of the Honorable Alcee L. Hastings Hearing on H.R. 1239, The National Underground Railroad Network to Freedom Reauthorization Act Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests, and Public Lands May 15, 2007 Chairman Grijalva, Ranking Member Bishop and members of the Subcommittee, thank you for inviting me here today to testify before you. I join you today to discuss H.R. 1239, The National Underground Railroad Network to Freedom Reauthorization Act, which I introduced with my friend Congressman Michael Castle of Delaware and a bipartisan coalition of 26 original cosponsors. This vital legislation now has a coalition of more than 50 cosponsors, including Chairman Grijalva. I thank him for his support. Mr. Chairman, I am confident that so many of my colleagues have joined me in prioritizing this legislation because of the unifying narrative embodied by the historical legacy of the Underground Railroad. The sacrifice at the risk of death made by conductors and travelers of the Underground Railroad was an unprecedented contribution to the abolition of slavery. Standing in opposition to the degrading institution of slavery, resources and shelter for escaping slaves was offered by many concerned Americans. The contributors to this network included the members of the Society of Religious Friends, commonly referred to as the Quakers, as well as other concerned individuals. Thus, the Underground Railroad was one of the first synergistic partnerships that fostered the development of the thriving multicultural society that is the United States of America. In 1997, I joined my friend, former Representative Louis Stokes and 70 other colleagues, as original cosponsors of the National Underground Railroad Network to Freedom Act of 1998. This bill eventually garnered significant bipartisan support from a coalition of 150 cosponsors and was moved by this committee after which it passed in the House of Representatives under suspension of the rules with only two dissenting votes. Swift passage through the Senate led this legislation to become Public Law 105-203 on July 21, 1998. The swift consideration of the establishing legislation and its vast co-sponsorship, including Republican and Democratic congressional leadership, spoke then as it does now to the necessity of the National Underground Railroad Network to Freedom. Indeed, once Congress establishes a phenomenal program such as this, it should be ready to take the necessary action to ensure its perpetuity. While there is not a site within the 23rd Congressional District of Florida, the District which I represent, there are many sites in my great state. These include the Southeast Archeological Center of Tallahassee, The Family Heritage Museum of Bradenton, Bill Baggs Cape Florida State Park of Key Biscayne, and the Fort Jefferson site administered in Homestead. As Co-Chairman of Florida's Congressional Delegation, I am proud that this bill will ensure the continued preservation of these sites. Interest in the history of the Underground Railroad has continued to increase in recent years. The Network to Freedom has grown to 300 sites in 28 states and the District of Columbia since its inception in 1998. More opportunities than ever are now available for families throughout the nation to engage in interpretive learning experiences related to the significant triumph of the Underground Railroad. Realize, the potential for even more opportunities exists. In 1990, Congress directed the National Park Service to study how to best interpret and commemorate the Underground Railroad through the establishment of the Underground Railroad Advisory Committee (Public Law 101-628). In the final report issued by the Underground Railroad Advisory Committee in 1995, 380 sites and structures in 29 states, Canada, Mexico, and the Caribbean islands, under state and local government stewardship, or privately owned, were identified to have important direct association with the Underground Railroad. Of that number, 42 were identified as having potential for designation as national historic landmarks. Many of these sites are now a part of the Network to Freedom. However, the valuable history of those sites not included may be lost without designation and incorporation in the Network to Freedom. It is crucial that we do not settle for preserving only a portion of our history. The current legislation pending before you today reflects an authorization for a modest funding increase that would bolster the capacity of the Network to Freedom so that the National Parks Service can continue its valuable work. Unfortunately, the March 2007 National Underground Network to Freedom Core Operations Report illuminates the challenges currently facing this program. One specific passage observes: The unique organizational structure of the Network to Freedom program, the difficulty of documenting Underground Railroad sites, and the challenges of working with financially starved partners in underserved communities, all add layers of complexity for program staff not found in tradition units or programs of the National Park System. This report also demonstrates that while costs for maintaining the Network to Freedom increase by 3.9 percent each year, funding for the program decreases by 1.01 percent each year. If the current trend continues, core projections estimate a 79.58 percent shortfall by 2011. Recent funding reductions have led to significant staffing losses that would be further exacerbated by greater funding shortfalls. I urge the Subcommittee to report this legislation favorably in order to prevent the National Underground Railroad Network to Freedom Program from diminishing to the point that it would be unable to fulfill its congressionally mandated duty. Our bill will help the Network to Freedom continue to facilitate partnerships and assist in interpreting and commemorating the historical network of buildings, interpretive centers, museums, geographic areas and routes that associated with the movement to resist slavery. As the largest steward of this history, it is important that the National Park Service is authorized to receive the support that it needs to continue this important mission. This is not just black history. It is American history. This is our past and we must be faithful stewards of it. We cannot let our history be forgotten. I thank you again for the opportunity to appear before you and look forward to your questions. # # # #
05.21.2007	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) today introduced the National Hurricane Research Initiative Act of 2007, a comprehensive hurricane research bill which will improve hurricane research dramatically in the U.S. share: f t U.S. Representatives Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) today introduced the National Hurricane Research Initiative Act of 2007, a comprehensive hurricane research bill which will improve hurricane research dramatically in the United States. The bill authorizes $4.35 billion in critical hurricane research funding to help scientists study and better understand how hurricanes form and intensify, as well as enhance early warning systems, improvements to infrastructure durability, and hurricane tracking and prediction capabilities. "Given our knowledge of the immense damage inflicted by past hurricanes and the strong hurricane season predictions for this year, our nation requires comprehensive and improved hurricane research. We need to adequately utilize the expertise of our nation's scientists and enhance our federal investment in hurricane research. By investing in research now, before the hurricanes strike, we will be able to better plan and mitigate these disasters, saving infrastructure and lives," said Representative Hastings. "As yet another Hurricane season is fast upon us, it is imperative that we do everything within our legislative powers to send this legislation to the President for his signature. Our scientists and researchers need the necessary tools to better understand these deadly storms and this legislation seeks to accomplish that. I urge my colleagues to help us help the millions of our citizens who every year find themselves in the path of these monsters," said Representative Ros-Lehtinen. The National Hurricane Research Initiative Act of 2007 takes the general recommendations of the National Science Board (a 24-member independent advisory body to the President and Congress on national science and engineering issues) and assembles the expertise of the nation's science and engineering experts to gain a better understanding of hurricane prediction and intensity. Under the bill, research is directed to further develop communications emergency networks for government agencies and non-government entities to improve disaster response and recovery. This legislation also establishes a National Infrastructure Data Base to develop standards and establish public policy to better understand hurricanes and tropical storms and develops a National Hurricane Research Test Bed (NHRTB) to conduct integrative research and facilitate the transfer of research knowledge to operational applications. The National Hurricane Research Initiative Act of 2007 has been endorsed by the State University System of Florida (Florida Board of Governors and Council of State University Presidents), the University of Miami and Nova Southeastern University. Florida Senators Mel Martinez (R-FL) and Bill Nelson (D-FL) introduced nearly identical legislation (S.931) earlier this year. Original cosponsors of the bill include Representatives Corrine Brown (D-FL), Vern Buchanan (R-FL), Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Bobby Jindal (R-LA), Ric Keller (R-FL), Ron Klein (D-FL), Connie Mack (R-FL), Tim Mahoney (D-FL), Mike McIntyre (D-NC), Kendrick B. Meek (D-FL), Charlie Melancon (D-LA), Gene Taylor (D-MS), Bennie Thompson (D-MS), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Robert Wexler (D-FL). A summary and copy of the bill are attached.
05.09.2007	The U.S. House of Representatives today unanimously adopted an amendment authored by U.S. Representative and Co-Chairman of Florida's Congressional Delegation Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) that will stop the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) from closing Florida's Long-Term Recovery Office for at least the next three years.&nbsp; Representative Hastings learned last week that FEMA has decided to close the Office over the next few months, just weeks before the commencement of the 2007 hurricane season. share: f t "Florida's Office of Long-Term Recovery has made FEMA more of a customer oriented business, where citizens and government alike are better served by a more responsive manager," said Representative Hastings today. "Since it was created, the Office has reduced response times to disasters and helped to mitigate the impact of future storms. The full time recovery staff, well-versed in state and federal policies, was able to rectify the mistakes made by previous emergency management teams. And the relationships they have cultivated with local governments, non-profits, communities, and federal officials have reduced FEMA's response times to disasters, saving taxpayer dollars and lives while reducing confusion. To close this office at this time would be a horrible mistake." FEMA's Long-Term Recovery Office was established in Orlando in June 2005 to aid Florida's recovery process following the devastating 2004 hurricane season. The Office has been successful in expediting recovery efforts and public assistance reimbursements to state and local governments, while also providing significant mitigation funding and guidance to local governments working to reduce their risk from future storms. Under Representative Hastings' amendment, the Office will remain open for a period of no less than three years after which FEMA is required to report to Congress on the effectiveness of the Office. "Congress has already established Long-Term Recovery Offices in Mississippi, Louisiana, Alabama and Texas - and rightfully so. It would be appropriate that we officially establish a similar one in Florida to serve the state and region," Representative Hastings concluded. "Considering the likelihood of Florida and the Gulf Coast being hit by another Hurricane this year and in the future, this is an office that we must keep open. It is the eve of hurricane season 2007 and the National Weather Service named its first storm earlier today. The House acting today could not be more timely." A copy of Representative Hastings' amendment is attached. The Senate has yet to consider the Department of Homeland Security Authorization bill.
05.03.2007	"The continuation of unfair and discriminatory immigration policies toward Haitians has not allowed Haiti to obtain the sense of normalcy that its Central American counterparts are being given the opportunity to achieve." share: f t U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today wrote to President Bush in response to the President's decision to extend Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Nicaraguans, Hondurans and Salvadorans but not Haitians currently in the United States. Representative Hastings is a leader in the fight to end double-standard immigration practices as they pertain to Haitian migrants. He is also the author of H.R. 522, the Haitian Protection Act, legislation which would designate Haitian nationals in the United States as eligible for TPS. The text of Representative Hastings' letter to President Bush follows: --- May 3, 2007 The Honorable George W. Bush The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: I write to bring your attention to a recent statement from Emilio Gonzalez, Director of the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. In an article in today's South Florida Sun-Sentinel, Mr. Gonzalez is quoted as saying: "Although Honduras, Nicaragua, and El Salvador have made significant progress in their recovery and rebuilding efforts, each country continues to face social and economic challenges in their efforts to restore their nations to normalcy." Mr. President, Nicaraguans and Hondurans have continued to receive Temporary Protected Status designation renewal for almost ten years now. As you know, the original designation for Nicaragua and Honduras was granted in response to the devastations from Hurricane Mitch in 1998 and for El Salvador, which is approaching their seventh year of protection, after two deadly earthquakes in 2001. In the case of all three countries, the U.S. federal government has acknowledged and rightfully supported their struggle to return to a sense of normalcy by granting TPS. However, at the same time, and under similar dire situations, Haitian migrants have not received similar treatment. I ask, why? According to the U.S. Coast Guard count for the month of April 2007, a total of 704 Haitians were rescued from vessels and repatriated to Haiti. This number is a dramatic increase compared to 43 Haitians rescued in April 2006 and a total of 769 in all of 2006. Judging by these numbers, it is quite evident that the situation in Haiti is reaching new heights of desperation. Even more, Haiti's current police force dwarfs in comparison to its population of 8 million, which includes an increasing number of gangs and kidnappers who continue to severely debilitate effective and lasting governance on a daily basis. Due to Haiti's unstable condition, foreign investment is discouraged, creating vast unemployment throughout the country. This has forced countless Haitians to risk their lives in the treacherous seas in a quest to provide not only for themselves, but for their family and community members back home. Repatriation of the very people who can help Haiti through remittances only makes this sizeable problem even larger and out of control. Granting TPS to Haitian nationals is, now more than ever, a matter of fairness and consistency in our immigration policies. Again, I respectfully request that you grant Haitians the same consideration and protection that you have supported for other deserving nations and people. The continuation of unfair and discriminatory immigration policies toward Haitians has not allowed Haiti to obtain the sense of normalcy that its Central American counterparts are being given the opportunity to achieve. Thank you for your consideration of this urgent request. I look forward to your expeditious response regarding this matter. With warm regards, I remain, Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress # # # #
04.26.2007	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today joined Israeli Ambassador to the United States Sallai Meridor and representatives of the black, Jewish, and environmental communities to launch Israel's Coretta Scott King Forest Campaign. The goal of the Campaign is the reforestation of the Biriya Forest, which was destroyed by Hezbollah rocket attacks last summer. Hezbollah rockets burned and destroyed over two million trees in Israel's northern forests. A portion of the re-planted Biriya Forest will be named after the late Coretta Scott King as a tribute to her commitment to peace and justice. share: f t The Coretta Scott King Forest Campaign partners include the Embassy of Israel, the Foundation for Ethnic Understanding, Hillel, the Jewish Council for Public Affairs, the Jewish National Fund, the Casey Trees Endowment and the Alliance for Community Trees. Attached are photos from today's event. Representative Hastings' prepared remarks and captions for the photos follow: Thank you for the opportunity to speak today at this important tree planting ceremony honoring a great American and a great country. I am truly honored to be here at the launch of such an important campaign with Ambassador Sallai Meridor, and my good friend and Colleague Representative Artur Davis. This campaign takes a very necessary step in rebuilding the once flourishing Israeli forests damaged by last summer's war with Lebanon while revitalizing urban communities in our country. Even more, it further strengthens and cultivates the US-Israel relationship. At the same time, we honor both black-Jewish relations in America and in Israel, and one of the greatest humanitarians and influential women of our time - Coretta Scott King. This campaign ensures that the legacy of Coretta Scott King will long be remembered throughout the United States and Israel. Her commitment to social justice, peace, and tolerance will forever be memorialized throughout this campaign. Importantly, this campaign demonstrates that the state of black-Jewish relations remains strong and steadfast to this day. Jews and blacks share a common historical bond of persecution and perseverance. Our similar narrative and values have promoted a longstanding relationship of mutual empathy and support. African-American newspapers were among the first in the United States to denounce Nazism. And Jews were among those that helped to establish the NAACP in 1909. When history judges us, it will ask, "What we did we do to strengthen our community? To repair the world? To leave this place better than it was when we arrived?" We can not, and will not, accomplish this by destroying one another or God's great treasures. We can no longer live in a world which encourages and fosters the manifestation of racism, xenophobia, anti-Semitism, and all forms of hate and intolerance. Israel's Coretta Scott King Campaign, and others just like it, is critical in laying the groundwork for future generations to accept the responsibility of, to steal a line from all of our teachings, "Be my brother's keeper." This is a campaign not of words, but of actions. Not of destruction, but of construction. Not of hate, but of understanding and tolerance. I am proud and honored to be here with all of you today. And I look forward to being in Israel soon to see the fruit of our labor today.
04.06.2007	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today called for a three month extension for federal emergency housing assistance currently being provided to Hurricane Wilma victims.&nbsp; share: f t Under the current deadline, individuals receiving housing assistance from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) will be forced to vacate or buy their temporary housing units by April 24, 2007. Representative Hastings wrote to Florida Governor Charlie Crist to ask that he make a formal request to FEMA for the extension, a requirement for FEMA to consider any deadline extension. "Hurricane Wilma brought extreme devastation and destruction to thousands of Floridians. While great strides have been made since the hurricane swept through our State, to date, 382 FEMA mobile home and travel trailer units in Florida still remain occupied. Nearly half of these units reside in my Congressional district. I have spoken with county authorities in my district and they continue to search for temporary and more long-term housing solutions for these hurricane victims. At this time, however, I believe that without extending this deadline, these residents could be cast out on to Florida's streets," wrote Representative Hastings. According to statistics provided by FEMA, there are 279 units in the five counties which make up Florida's 23rd Congressional District which would be impacted by the April 24 deadline, 136 of which are located within the borders of Representative Hastings' district. County-wide, there are 103 impacted units in Broward County, 88 in Hendry County, 11 in Martin County, 61 in Palm Beach County, and 16 in St. Lucie County. After consulting with local officials who are working with FEMA and various not-for-profit organizations to identify alternative housing for hurricane victims, Representative Hastings concluded that an extension is necessary. "For the hundreds of displaced citizens residing in FEMA trailers from the 2005 hurricane season, the emergency is not over," Representative Hastings concluded in his letter to Governor Crist. "Your request is critical to extending the temporary housing deadline so these families can have realistic time to search for permanent affordable housing options... I stand ready as co-Chair of Florida's Congressional Delegation to assist in any way possible to see that this request be granted at the federal level." # # # #
03.30.2007	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) this week introduced H.R. 1796, The National Emergency Centers Establishment Act, requiring the establishment of no less than six National Emergency Centers capable of providing temporary housing, medical, education, and humanitarian assistance to individuals and families displaced due to a national emergency. share: f t The Centers would also be used for disaster preparedness training and coordination exercises. "More than eighteen months after Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma which ravaged the 23rd District of Florida, thousands of families are still living in trailers marked on the outside 'FEMA'," said Representative Hastings. "This severe problem, coupled with our need to improve training and preparedness for national emergencies, must be addressed to ensure that the humanitarian catastrophe which began with Katrina and continues today will never occur again." Under Representative Hastings' legislation, National Emergency Centers would be located on military bases with a preference wherever possible for those installations closed during the most recent Base Realignment and Closures (BRAC) Commission recommendations. As a prerequisite of the legislation, selected military installations must already have the necessary infrastructure in place to house, feed, educate and care for evacuees over an extended period of time, thus limiting the cost and time needed to construct these facilities. "Congress can either bulldoze the BRAC bases or it can actually do something positive with the infrastructure that's already in place," Representative Hastings stated. "The last thing we should do to a family of four who just lost their home in a hurricane is force them to live out of a suitcase in a small hotel room for an undetermined amount of time. This legislation not only utilizes existing infrastructure on closing military bases to meet a national temporary housing shortage, but it also builds temporary communities capable of meeting all of the needs of its residents." Under the National Emergency Centers Establishment Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security is required to select the location of the six sites within 60 days of the bill becoming law. The legislation authorizes $250 million to pay for the establishment of the Centers. A copy of the National Emergency Centers Establishment Act is attached. # # # #
03.28.2007	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) this week introduced H.R. 1709, the Pollinator Protection Act, legislation authorizing over $75 million in funding for sustained research of the accelerated mysterious loss of honey bee colonies throughout the nation. The Pollinator Protection Act aims to combat the phenomenon known as Colony Collapse Disorder, which currently threatens more than one-third of all crops grown in the United States. "This is a problem that not many people know about, but we all need to be concerned about," said Representative Hastings today. "If we want our grandchildren to have food to eat that was grown in this nation, then something needs to be done about Colony Collapse Disorder. Otherwise, most citizens won't be able to afford the scarce agricultural products that will be produced in our nation without honey bee pollination." Honey bees contribute well over $15 billion in added value to American agriculture. Researchers and farmers warn that if Colony Collapse Disorder continues, then its current impact on honey bee colony numbers and America's food security could be significantly destabilized. The Pollinator Protection Act authorizes $5.25 million over three years for Colony Collapse Disorder research; $50 million over five years for U.S. Department of Agriculture research grants to investigate specific causes of Colony Collapse Disorder and develop other research on the factors contributing to the general decline of pollinators in North America; and $20 million to ensure that USDA has the necessary staff and facilities to conduct this essential research. "Bees are critical players in our ecosystem. They enhance our way of life, whether we realize it or not," Representative Hastings noted. "If we do not act now, Colony Collapse Disorder will have a stinging impact on America's agriculture industry and our standard of living." The House Subcommittee on Horticulture and Organic Agriculture held a hearing on the threat of Colony Collapse Disorder earlier today. Representative Hastings holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Zoology from Fisk University. # # # #
03.28.2007	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) responded today to news reports that 101 Haitian refugees landed on a South Florida beach this morning after fleeing Haiti due to increased political instability and abject poverty. Representative Hastings is the author of H.R. 522, the Haitian Protection Act of 2007, a bill which extends Temporary Protected Status (TPS) to Haitian migrants for a period of no less than eighteen (18) months. Representative Hastings' statement follows: "Those who continue to flee Haiti, just like the 100 plus Haitians found today in South Broward, are leaving a destitute environment brought on by political instability and the absence of the rule of law. "Despite my continuing efforts and those of so many others, our current immigration policies are highly discriminatory towards Haitian migrants. It is highly unjust and inexcusable that most Haitians who reach U.S. shores are almost always repatriated, subjected to double standard immigration laws, while others who often suffer from similar conditions of extreme poverty and despair are allowed to stay. "It is a gross violation of human rights to send these people back to such an unstable and volatile environment. If it is unsafe for our citizens to travel to Haiti, then those same conditions should make it much too dangerous and inappropriate to forcibly repatriate Haitians at this time. It is unfortunate and appalling that our current immigration policies hold such harmful double standards. "As our government decides whether to permit these individuals to stay or force them to return to Haiti, it is both my hope and expectation that they will receive the due process that they deserve and which we demand." # # # #
03.22.2007	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives today in support of U.S. troops serving in Iraq, Afghanistan and throughout the world while indicating that he will vote in favor of the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health and Iraq Accountability Act (2007 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill). Representative Hastings' prepared remarks follow and a summary of the legislation is attached: When I voted against using troops in Iraq more than four years, I believed then - and still believe today - that this was not a war of necessity, but rather a war of choice and convenience. As we have learned since that vote, my concerns were, indeed, justified. The Bush Administration lied about the existence of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, and skewed our intelligence to mislead the international community, members of this body, and the American public. Theirs was a not a path to victory. It was a path of deceit. Contrary to what some will try to make this debate about, this will not be a vote on supporting our troops. After all, there is no choice when it comes to supporting our troops. We all stand by them - Republicans and Democrats - especially when they are in harm's way. But should we send our troops into battle without proper body armor? For over four years, the Bush Administration has said, "Yes." Democrats say, "No." Should we force our troops into 2nd and 3rd tours of duties with shortened times in between those tours? The Bush Administration continues to say, "Yes." Democrats say, "No." Should we welcome home our troops with inhumane conditions at our VA hospitals and a short-changed veterans' healthcare system? The Bush Administration says, "Yes." Democrats say, "No." Should we stay the course of rhetorical arguments filled with fear and deception? Or should we finally start holding this Administration and the Iraqi government accountable? For over four years, the Bush Administration has said, "Stay the course." Democrats and the American people demand accountability and a plan to bring our men and women home. Choices arise only when we start asking ourselves the real questions about how we can best support and protect our troops. On these issues, there are very clear choices between the Bush Administration's "Stay the Course" stubbornness and the Democratic plan for accountability. I and so many others in this body and throughout this country want our troops home, and we want them home now. And I hope that my colleagues realize that this supplemental appropriations bill is not the end-all be-all when it comes to getting us out of Iraq. It is not the long-term solution which so many of us crave. But it is the first step - a very necessary step - on the road to holding the Administration and Iraqi government accountable and bringing our troops home. Democrats did not start this war. But make no mistake about it, one way or another, we will end it. Most importantly, we will do so in a manner that enhances our security here at home and contributes to the restoration of order and stability in the Middle East region and throughout the world. ####
03.15.2007	Today, nine members of the Florida Congressional delegation sent a letter to House Administration Committee Chairwoman Juanita Millender-McDonald (D-CA) and Ranking Member Vernon Ehlers (R-MI) urging that a special task force be established immediately to review the 2006 contested election in the 13th District of Florida. The letter follows recent revelations published in the Sarasota Herald-Tribune and other Florida newspapers revealing that voting machine manufacturer Elections Systems & Software (ES&S) warned Sarasota County officials prior to the 2006 election that the voting machines were experiencing problems. The news report continues by indicating that Florida elections officials did not approve the necessary and available software patches because they claimed that it was too close to the election. A copy of the letter follows and is attached. March 15, 2007 The Honorable Juanita Millender-McDonald Chairwoman House Administration Committee 1309 Longworth House Office Building Washington DC 20515 The Honorable Vernon Ehlers Ranking Republican House Administration Committee 1313 Longworth House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairwoman Millender-McDonald and Representative Ehlers: We write with deep concern regarding recent press accounts in the Sarasota Herald-Tribune indicating that the potential for voting irregularities during the 2006 election for Representative in Congress from Florida's 13th District was known long before the November election, yet officials from the State of Florida and the Sarasota County Supervisor of Elections' Office took no preventive measures. According to this press account, Election Systems & Software, Inc. (ES&S), the manufacturer of the touch-screen voting equipment in Sarasota County, notified the County Supervisor of Elections, as early as August 15, 2006, that calibration "issues" existed with the voting machines. However, the news report continues, even after ES&S acknowledged problems with the machines, the appropriate software patch was never applied to the machines because Florida election officials determined that the immediacy of the election date did not provide sufficient time to make such updates. According to the report, Florida election officials made this decision despite ES&S' belief that the task needed to be, and could be, completed before the November 2006 election. That these revelations are coming to light now, through press reports, suggests that the potential for fraud in this election was real, that it was known by the responsible officials and that these officials did nothing about it. Further, that these reports came to light through press reports strongly suggests that this investigation is far from complete. As you know, this particular congressional election is currently being contested under the Federal Contested Elections Act (2 USC 381-396) because Sarasota County's election returns indicated nearly 18,000 blank ballots, or undervotes, on the ES&S system. As questions about the integrity of this election continue to mount, it becomes all the more important for the House of Representatives to exercise its constitutional responsibility to resolve this election contest. Therefore, we request the immediate formation of an official House task force to review this election pursuant to the Federal Contested Elections Act. We further request that the task force take prompt steps to ensure a full and fair investigation into the Sarasota County voting machines' hardware (including the faulty touch-screens), software, and source code. The voters of Florida - and indeed the people of this entire Nation - deserve nothing less. We all know that the House of Representatives has the responsibility to ensure that the elections of its Members - Republican or Democrat - are valid, legitimate and honest. We must do everything in our power to restore the confidence of voters in Florida's 13th Congressional District and throughout our State. Reviewing last November's election in the 13th District is the first step in this critical process. Thank you for your consideration of our request. We look forward to your expeditious response and welcome the opportunity to discuss this with you further. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings, MC Robert Wexler, MC Debbie Wasserman Schultz, MC Allen Boyd, MC Corrine Brown, MC Kendrick B. Meek, MC Ron Klein, MC Kathy Castor, MC Tim Mahoney, MC CC: The Honorable Nancy Pelosi, Speaker of the House of Representatives The Honorable Steny Hoyer, Majority Leader, House of Representatives The Honorable John Boehner, Minority Leader, House of Representatives # # # #
03.14.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Wednesday, March 22, 2006 Following the lead of U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar), the Palm Beach County Congressional Delegation today expressed its opposition to the Federal Aviation Administration's (FAA) plan to transition the airport's Terminal Radar Approach Control (TRACON) from Palm Beach International Airport (PBI) to Miami International Airport (MIA). In a letter to FAA Administrator Marion Blakey, Representative Hastings and others noted that the FAA's decision "has great potential to limit the ability to fly-in emergency relief supplies during natural disasters and possible terrorist attacks, force many PBI air traffic controllers to relocate, and make South Florida's skies a dangerous place to be." PBI's TRACON system guides planes within a 40 mile radius of the airport on their final approaches to PBI, Stuart, Witham Field, Boca Raton Executive Airport, and North Palm Beach County General Aviation Airport as well as over-flight, in-route air traffic in PBI's airspace. The full text of the delegation letter follows. --- March 22, 2006 The Honorable Marion C. Blakey Administrator Federal Aviation Administration 800 Independence Avenue, S.W. Washington, DC 20591 Dear Administrator Blakey: We write to thank you for your letter of February 13, 2006 indicating that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) is planning on constructing a new control tower at Palm Beach International Airport (PBI) between 2007 and 2009. This is an issue on which all of us have been working for many years. We also write to express our deep concerns about the FAA's decision to transition the airport's Terminal Radar Approach Control (TRACON) from PBI to Miami International Airport (MIA). If implemented, this decision has great potential to limit the ability to fly-in emergency relief supplies during natural disasters and possible terrorist attacks, force many PBI air traffic controllers to relocate, and make South Florida's skies a dangerous place to be. The FAA's plan to essentially place all of South Florida's major radar functions under one roof at MIA is a very dangerous scenario, especially considering the region's vulnerability to hurricanes and its federal designation as a high-risk urban area. PBI was greatly utilized during the 2004 and 2005 hurricane seasons to fly in emergency supplies to Palm Beach, Martin, St. Lucie, Hendry Counties, Broward, and Monroe Counties. Additionally, PBI was used extensively following Hurricane Andrew in 1992 as a distribution point for federal and local officials shuttling relief supplies to southern counties which had been completely devastated by the storm. If a hurricane were to barrel through Miami-Dade County and damage MIA's control tower and subsequent radar system, as Hurricane Andrew did, then it is highly possible, indeed likely, that emergency efforts in Palm Beach and the aforementioned counties could be dramatically hindered. We are well aware of the financial limitations under which the FAA finds itself. Nevertheless, your February 13 letter noting that the FAA can take advantage of an already existing radar system at MIA "without duplicating expenses at West Palm Beach" is quite troubling and confusing. As you know, the FAA is preparing to begin construction of a new control tower at PBI. In turn, if the FAA is going to spend more than $18 million on this tower, then why is it unwilling to include every state-of-the-art radar system available in that tower? These systems would include the modernization of PBI's TRACON and also purchasing a Standard Terminal Automation Replacement System (STAR), the system which you maintain is the reason for relocating PBI's TRACON to MIA. Finally, it is widely accepted that the job of an air traffic controller is a very stressful occupation. Given the current driving conditions on South Florida highways and the distance involved, requiring PBIA controllers to travel to Miami every day to work would put even greater stress on these people on whom we, as air passengers, depend for our safety. Furthermore, recalling the hurricane disasters of the last year alone, asking PBI's current air traffic controllers to travel between at least 60 and 70 miles to their workplace in such a situation is not a good idea and runs the risk of losing many qualified air traffic controllers with years of experience who may leave the profession rather than relocate south. By its very name, PBI is not a small regional airport. Its size and importance, to the people of South Florida and the Treasure Coast and the thousands of American and international travelers who use it, dictate that it remain staffed as it has since its inception. We submit that your proposal to move transition PBI's TRACON to MIA is short-sighted and request that it be reconsidered. Thank you for your attention to this matter, and we look forward to your response. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings, MC Mark Foley, MC Robert Wexler, MC E. Clay Shaw, Jr., MC ###
03.14.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Thursday, April 06, 2006 U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today introduced the Workforce Housing Act (WHA) of 2006, legislation which will dramatically increase the availability of affordable housing in South Florida and throughout the country. The bill invests $2.6 billion in working families struggling to find affordable housing and communities which want to provide incentives for its construction. "Owning a home embodies the core American values of individuality, responsibility and self-reliance. In 2005, however, only 11 percent of adults in America could afford to purchase a home at the national median purchase cost of $213,000. More and more, working class families are being priced out of the housing market by inflated property values and the lack of available affordable housing," said Representative Hastings. "Affordable housing is not just an issue in South Florida and the Treasure Coast. It's a problem nationwide. My legislation makes the necessary federal investment to help people become first-time home owners and encourages local governments to mandate the continued availability of affordable housing in their communities." Highlights of the Workforce Housing Act include: · Establishes Tax-Exempt Mortgage Down Payment Accounts (MDPA): The WHA allows first-time home buyers to set aside up to $10,000 in tax-exempt wages into a Mortgage Down Payment Account (MDPA). The MDPA can be used to offset a down payment, closing costs, and other fees associated with purchasing a home. · Matches Low-Income and Middle Class Family MDPA Contributions: For individuals and families making up to 125 percent of the area median income (between $65,000 and $67,000 in Broward, Palm Beach, Martin and St. Lucie Counties and $52,000 in Hendry County), the federal government will match the contributions dollar-for-dollar in the form of a tax credit not to exceed $2,500 annually and $10,000 total. · Additional Down Payment Assistance to Low-Income Families: The WHA authorizes $1.6 billion over the next 8 years to provide individuals and families who make 80 percent or less of the area median income (between $52,000 and 54,000 in Broward, Palm Beach, Martin and St. Lucie Counties and $42,500 in Hendry County) and are purchasing a single-family home, townhouse, or condominium for the first time with a grant of up to 10 percent of the total cost of the home or unit up to $15,000. Individuals and families receiving the grant must participate in a financial counseling program to help them plan for the financial demands of homeownership. · Encourages Construction of Community-Based Affordable Housing: The WHA authorizes $1 billion over the next 8 years to provide financial incentives to developers who set aside no less than 25 percent of newly constructed homes at a price that does not exceed the median home purchase price in that area. Additional incentives are available to developers who build near mass transit routes and with energy efficient appliances and technology, including those which utilize solar technology. All homes constructed under this program must meet federal, state, and local wind-resistant and earthquake-protection codes. According to Florida Trend, South Florida and the Treasure Coast have seen the cost of a home skyrocket over the last five years, while wages have struggled to keep pace with inflation. In Ft. Lauderdale, the average cost of a home is now $383,900, a 116 percent 5-year increase compared with only a 6.6 percent income increase during the same time period. Ft. Pierce/Port St. Lucie residents have seen the cost of a home increase by 121 percent over the last 5 years to its current average of $267,500, while income has only increased by 5.8 percent during the same time period. In Miami, homes now cost an average of $363,000, a 108 percent 5-year increase, though wages have increased only by 6.1 percent. Finally, in the West Palm Beach area, the average home now costs $399,900. This is a 114 percent increase while, at the same time, wages in the area have only increased by 9.7 percent. These dramatic numbers compare to Florida's statewide average of $248,600, a 90 percent 5-year increase in cost compared with a 15.2 percent income increase during the same time. "House prices have more than doubled in South Florida and the Treasure Coast over the last five years. Realize, a shortage in the number of affordable homes affects communities in terms of retail dollars, jobs, a stable tax base, and traffic-related environmental damage. The shortage has also limited hurricane victims' ability to fully recover and move into non-damaged homes," Representative Hastings noted. "The Workforce Housing Act creates incentives for developers to build affordable housing and actually helps people pay for that housing. It is a comprehensive and compassionate package aimed at helping working families who need a little help to realize first time homeownership." ###
03.14.2007	United States Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe (U.S. Helsinki Commission) Chairman Alcee L. Hastings (D-Florida) this week introduced H. Res. 240, bipartisan legislation urging all European nations to allow for open access to the Holocaust archives located in Bad Arolsen, Germany. "62 years after the end of the Holocaust these crucial archives remain difficult to access for survivors and off limits to researchers," said Representative Hastings. "After all of the horrors and suffering they have experienced, the world owes it to the remaining Holocaust survivors to inform them of the truth about their family and their loved ones without hassle or delay." The Holocaust archives located in Bad Arolsen remain the largest closed Second World War-era archives in the world. Inside the archives are 50 million records that disclose the fate of some 17.5 million individual victims of Nazism. In order to allow for open access to these important archives, each of the 11 members of the International Commission of the International Tracing Service (ITS) (the United States, Belgium, France, Germany, Greece, Israel, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Poland, and the United Kingdom) must individually ratify through their respective parliaments the May 2006 amendments to the 1955 Bonn Accords. To date, however, only 4 out of the 11 Commission member countries (the United States, Israel, Poland and the Netherlands) have ratified the treaty. In February 2007, United States Representative Hastings resolution led two additional bipartisan efforts with over 40 other Members of Congress to the German, British, French, Italian, Belgium, Greek, and Italian ambassadors urging these Commission member countries to expedite the ratification process. "Recent progress to open the archives was made at the Commission's recent meeting in the Hague. But until the amendments are ratified, their treaty obligations remain unfulfilled. The short time left for the remaining Holocaust survivors does not afford us time to delay any longer," Representative Hastings noted. Among the 32 original cosponsors of the bill were Foreign Affairs Committee Chair and Ranking Member Tom Lantos (D-CA) and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) and Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on the Middle East and South Asia Gary Ackerman (D-NY). The lead Republican cosponsor is Representative Mark Steven Kirk (R-IL). ####
06.22.2006	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today wrote to Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Administrator Marion Blakey reacting to an apparent FAA decision to accelerate the consolidation/co-location of the Palm Beach International Airport (PBI) Terminal Radar Approach Control (TRACON) center to Miami International Airport (MIA). share: f t Representative Hastings learned of this decision during a conversation with the PBI National Air Traffic Control Association (NATCA) Local Union President who informed Representative Hastings that some PBI air traffic specialists were recently notified that they should begin making plans for reassignment to the MIA TRACON sometime in 2008, more than one year earlier than Representative Hastings and the members of the Palm Beach County Congressional delegation had been told that such a move may occur. The FAA decision comes just one week after the House of Representatives overwhelmingly approved an amendment authored by Representative Hastings prohibiting the FAA from implementing its TRACON consolidation/co-location plans in South Florida and throughout the rest of the country. Representative Hastings' letter to Administrator Blakey follows: --- June 22, 2006 The Honorable Marion C. Blakey Administrator Federal Aviation Administration 800 Independence Avenue, S.W. Washington, DC 20591 Dear Administrator Blakey: I write with great concern about news I recently received from officials at Palm Beach International Airport (PBI) about an apparent Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) decision to accelerate the relocation of selected PBI air traffic controllers to the Terminal Radar Approach Control (TRACON) center at Miami International Airport (MIA). During a recent conversation with PBI officials, I learned that select air traffic controllers at PBI have been told that they should begin making plans to be transferred to the MIA TRACON center sometime in 2008. This schedule is in direct contravention to the timeframe which my staff and the staffs of Representatives Clay Shaw, Mark Foley, and Robert Wexler were given during a meeting with FAA officials in my office on April 10, 2006. During that meeting, our offices were guaranteed that no TRACON-related personnel moves in South Florida would occur until 2009 at the absolute earliest. As you know, on June 14, 2006 the House of Representatives approved House Amendment 1037 to the Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill by a vote of 261-166. This amendment prohibits the FAA from using funds in fiscal year 2007 to plan for or implement any TRACON consolidation/co-location plans in the country. The vote made clear that the majority of the House does not support the FAA's TRACON consolidation/co-location plan and does not want to see this plan implemented. I am astonished that the FAA is not only continuing its efforts to consolidate/co-locate South Florida TRACONs, but actually accelerating the move at PBI. I certainly hope that this decision is not an attempt by the FAA to levy political retribution at me for authoring the aforementioned amendment which represents a view clearly shared by the overwhelming majority of my colleagues in the House of Representatives. It is absolutely reprehensible that the FAA continues to act in such fashion, dismissing and ignoring not only the commitment that your staff made to mine on the South Florida TRACON consolidation/co-location timeframe, but also the views of the House of Representatives. I strongly urge you to immediately reverse your decision to accelerate South Florida TRACON consolidation/co-location, respect the wishes of the House of Representatives, and refrain from planning any future TRACON consolidation/co-location in the country. Thank you for you attention to this matter. I look forward to you expeditious response. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress ###
06.15.2006	The U.S. House of Representatives today overwhelmingly approved an amendment authored by U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) blocking the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) from moving Palm Beach International Airport's Terminal Radar Approach Control (TRACON) system to Miami International Airport. The final vote tally for Representative Hastings' amendment was 261-166. share: f t "This vote sends a clear and strong message to the FAA that the House of Representatives does not support the FAA's TRACON consolidation plan in South Florida and throughout the country," said Representative Hastings after today's vote. "I am pleased that the House chose today to place the safety of America's flying public over flawed government reorganization." The TRACON system guides planes within a 50 mile radius of the airport on their final approaches, and in an effort to save money, the FAA has embarked an ambitious plan to consolidate 24 TRACON systems throughout the country into 10. Under the FAA plan, TRACONs at Palm Beach International and Pensacola Regional Airports will be moved to Miami International and Tallahassee Regional Airports, respectively. During debate on his amendment, Representative Hastings noted that the FAA's plan would leave all South Florida airports without an approach radar system if a natural disaster or terrorist attack were to destroy MIA's TRACON. The FAA's contingency plan, as presented to Representative Hastings, would require that controllers in Jacksonville, an airport more than 350 miles away, direct approaching aircraft not only in their assigned region, but throughout all of South Florida and virtually the entire state without additional staff and technology. "Contrary to what some have suggested, this has not been a debate just about jobs. This is a debate about public safety and whether or not limiting our air traffic capacities during natural and man-made disasters is a good idea. Eliminating 14 TRACONs across the country, including at Palm Beach International Airport, is not the recipe for ensuring that our air traffic needs are met during disasters, natural or man-made," Representative Hastings noted. "If a terrorist attack or natural disaster were to destroy a consolidated TRACON anywhere in the country, the option to spread added workload amongst multiple Centers will not exist because those Centers will be completely gone if the FAA gets its way. Simply put, during these critical times, we should not be limiting our air traffic capacity." ###
04.06.2006	U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today introduced the Workforce Housing Act (WHA) of 2006, legislation which will dramatically increase the availability of affordable housing in South Florida and throughout the country. The bill invests $2.6 billion in working families struggling to find affordable housing and communities which want to provide incentives for its construction. share: f t "Owning a home embodies the core American values of individuality, responsibility and self-reliance. In 2005, however, only 11 percent of adults in America could afford to purchase a home at the national median purchase cost of $213,000. More and more, working class families are being priced out of the housing market by inflated property values and the lack of available affordable housing," said Representative Hastings. "Affordable housing is not just an issue in South Florida and the Treasure Coast. It's a problem nationwide. My legislation makes the necessary federal investment to help people become first-time home owners and encourages local governments to mandate the continued availability of affordable housing in their communities." Highlights of the Workforce Housing Act include: · Establishes Tax-Exempt Mortgage Down Payment Accounts (MDPA): The WHA allows first-time home buyers to set aside up to $10,000 in tax-exempt wages into a Mortgage Down Payment Account (MDPA). The MDPA can be used to offset a down payment, closing costs, and other fees associated with purchasing a home. · Matches Low-Income and Middle Class Family MDPA Contributions: For individuals and families making up to 125 percent of the area median income (between $65,000 and $67,000 in Broward, Palm Beach, Martin and St. Lucie Counties and $52,000 in Hendry County), the federal government will match the contributions dollar-for-dollar in the form of a tax credit not to exceed $2,500 annually and $10,000 total. · Additional Down Payment Assistance to Low-Income Families: The WHA authorizes $1.6 billion over the next 8 years to provide individuals and families who make 80 percent or less of the area median income (between $52,000 and 54,000 in Broward, Palm Beach, Martin and St. Lucie Counties and $42,500 in Hendry County) and are purchasing a single-family home, townhouse, or condominium for the first time with a grant of up to 10 percent of the total cost of the home or unit up to $15,000. Individuals and families receiving the grant must participate in a financial counseling program to help them plan for the financial demands of homeownership. · Encourages Construction of Community-Based Affordable Housing: The WHA authorizes $1 billion over the next 8 years to provide financial incentives to developers who set aside no less than 25 percent of newly constructed homes at a price that does not exceed the median home purchase price in that area. Additional incentives are available to developers who build near mass transit routes and with energy efficient appliances and technology, including those which utilize solar technology. All homes constructed under this program must meet federal, state, and local wind-resistant and earthquake-protection codes. According to Florida Trend, South Florida and the Treasure Coast have seen the cost of a home skyrocket over the last five years, while wages have struggled to keep pace with inflation. In Ft. Lauderdale, the average cost of a home is now $383,900, a 116 percent 5-year increase compared with only a 6.6 percent income increase during the same time period. Ft. Pierce/Port St. Lucie residents have seen the cost of a home increase by 121 percent over the last 5 years to its current average of $267,500, while income has only increased by 5.8 percent during the same time period. In Miami, homes now cost an average of $363,000, a 108 percent 5-year increase, though wages have increased only by 6.1 percent. Finally, in the West Palm Beach area, the average home now costs $399,900. This is a 114 percent increase while, at the same time, wages in the area have only increased by 9.7 percent. These dramatic numbers compare to Florida's statewide average of $248,600, a 90 percent 5-year increase in cost compared with a 15.2 percent income increase during the same time. "House prices have more than doubled in South Florida and the Treasure Coast over the last five years. Realize, a shortage in the number of affordable homes affects communities in terms of retail dollars, jobs, a stable tax base, and traffic-related environmental damage. The shortage has also limited hurricane victims' ability to fully recover and move into non-damaged homes," Representative Hastings noted. "The Workforce Housing Act creates incentives for developers to build affordable housing and actually helps people pay for that housing. It is a comprehensive and compassionate package aimed at helping working families who need a little help to realize first time homeownership." ###
03.22.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Wednesday, March 22, 2006 U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) and U.S. Representative Robert Wexler (D-Boca Raton) today called on Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Michael Leavitt to immediately reinstate the over $1.2 million in funding cuts for HIV/AIDS patients living in Palm Beach County. Representatives Hastings and Wexler are deeply concerned about HIV/AIDS patients who rely at times on federal funding to receive critical medical treatment and social services. In a letter to Secretary Leavitt, Representatives Hastings and Wexler noted that the 13 percent funding cut is the largest for any county in Florida and the second largest in the United States. These cuts, as the two argue, will have a devestating effect on Palm Beach County's Ryan White HIV/AIDS programs. According to the Palm Beach Post, 600 HIV patients will lose transportation to their doctors, 800 will lose their food allowance, and 400 will lose professional help for medical and social-services. In addition, patients will only receive three months of case management, only six months of mental-health counseling, only 90 days of in-patient substance-abuse treatment and 55 percent less money for legal aid to help patients seeking Social Security, Medicaid, and Medicare benefits. Palm Beach County received $9.5 million last year in funding, and with one out of every 131 individuals living in Palm Beach County having HIV/AIDS, increased funding is desperately needed. A copy of the letter follows below. --- March 22, 2006 The Honorable Mike Leavitt Secretary Department of Health and Human Services 200 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20201 Dear Secretary Leavitt: We write to express our great concern regarding the Department of Health and Human Services' (HHS) recent decision to cut funding for HIV/AIDS programs in Palm Beach County, Florida by $1.2 million. We strongly urge you to restore this funding, at the very least, to the fiscal year 2005 level, to ensure that patients rely on these federal dollars continue to receive the critical medical treatment and social services which they so desperately need. Without these programs, uninsured and underinsured patients with HIV/AIDS in Palm Beach County will not receive the badly needed services that enable them to fight this dreaded disease. As you know, during the previous fiscal year, Palm Beach County received $9.5 million in Ryan White CARE Act funding. While this was a generous amount, there is still much work to be done to effectively serve those infected with HIV/AIDS in the County. HHS' funding cuts for Ryan White AIDS programs in Palm Beach County total 13 percent and are the largest for any county in Florida and the second largest in the United States. The impact of these cuts will only further devastate the health of more than 600 HIV patients who will lose transportation to their doctors, 800 who will lose their food allowance, and 400 who will lose professional help for medical and social-services. This is completely unacceptable. What is puzzling about these cuts is that the Health Resources and Services Administration claims that they are due to inadequate information provided by Palm Beach County. Yet, in our discussions with the County, they indicated that this year's application contains basically the same information as last year, with only minor updated changes. It is difficult to understand how the same data could be acceptable one year yet inadequate in the following year. The impact of such a decision is staggering. A disproportionate number of people living with HIV/AIDS in Palm Beach County are already plagued with poverty, a lack of health insurance, or gaps in Medicaid coverage. If funding for Ryan White programs are cut in Palm Beach County, County residents with HIV/AIDS will have no other resources for medical attention. The fragile state of many of these patients will not allow them to hold on for the possibility of more funding next year. With 1 out of every 131 individuals living in Palm Beach County having HIV/AIDS, increased funds are required immediately. In addition, if these cuts remain permanent, patients will be limited to receiving only three months of case management, only six months of mental-health counseling, and only 90 days of in-patient substance-abuse treatment. There will also be 55 percent less money for patients seeking legal aid to obtain Social Security, Medicaid, and Medicare benefits. Because the medical needs of HIV/AIDS patients are so finely balanced, any disruption in care only further complicates their treatment and ultimately increases costs. Reinstating funds for these programs now is not only in the best interest of medical care, but it is also a cost effective move to prevent even higher costs that ultimately affect the entire county. We implore you to reconsider this cut in funding. The restoration of these funds will allow HIV/AIDS programs in Palm Beach County to move forward and serve the best interests of our community at large. Thank you for your consideration of this request, and we look forward to your expeditious response. Sincerely, Alcee L. Hastings, MC Robert Wexler, MC ###
03.02.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Thursday, March 02, 2006 U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) led House Democrats today in condemning the Bush Administration's agreement with Dubai Ports World because the deal reinforces the Arab boycott against Israel and the United Arab Emirates funding of Hamas. The condemnation came in a letter sent to President Bush authored by Representatives Hastings. U.S. Representatives Henry A. Waxman (D-CA), Rahm Emanuel (D-IL), and 38 other Members of the House Democratic Caucus also signed the letter to the President. The full text of the letter follows. March 2, 2006 The Honorable George W. Bush President The White House Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We write to express our deep concerns regarding your Administration's decision to allow Dubai Ports World (DP World), a firm owned by the United Arab Emirates (UAE), to manage operations at six U.S. ports. The UAE has pledged to provide financial support to the Hamas-led government of the Palestinian Authority and openly participates in the Arab League boycott against Israel. The agreement that your Administration approved not only could place the safety and security of U.S. ports at risk, but enhance the ability of the UAE to bolster the Hamas regime and its efforts to promote terrorism and violence against Israel. History has shown that the UAE has not shied away from supporting terrorist regimes. Prior to the September 11, 2001 attacks, the UAE was an active supporter of the Taliban government in Afghanistan. And, on February 2, 2006, just two weeks after the port deal was approved, Reuters reported that Arab countries, including the UAE and Saudi Arabia, pledged millions to help the Hamas-led Palestinian Authority offset any potential cut in Israeli fund transfers and U.S. foreign aid. Under the current port agreement, there are no limitations to prevent money earned by the UAE from being be used to continue funding terrorist organizations, such as Hamas, which seek the destruction of Israel. Additionally, current law prohibits U.S. companies and individuals from participating in international economic boycotts or embargoes. In fact, we understand that the Department of Commerce Office of Antiboycott Compliance has fined several U.S. companies in the last year for complying with DP World's and UAE's enforcement of the Arab League boycott against Israel. The Administration's decision to reward a company that actively enforces the anti-Israel boycott violates the spirit and intent of our anti-boycott law and runs counter to the efforts of those of us in Congress who have sought an end to this offensive and unfair practice. The UAE should have been required to renounce its anti-Israel boycott as a condition for the deal to be approved. Finally, press accounts have noted a breakdown in communication at the highest levels in the Administration during the process of evaluating the port agreement. Reports are now surfacing that concerns raised by the Coast Guard, the frontline defenders of our ports, were not taken into account. These omissions, coupled with UAE actions that counter our interests in the Middle East, clearly demonstrate that the Administration did not adequately evaluate the domestic and international security risks posed by this accord. As the Administration belatedly begins a full 45-day review of the DP World investment, we strongly urge you to thoroughly examine these concerns and take all appropriate steps to ensure the security of the American people and our allies. Thank you for your consideration, and we look forward to your response. Sincerely, Rep. Alcee L. Hastings Rep. Henry A. Waxman Rep. Rahm Emanuel Rep. Gary Ackerman Rep. John Barrow Rep. Shelley Berkley Rep. Howard Berman Rep. Tim Bishop Rep. Sherrod Brown Rep. Dennis Cardoza Rep. Joe Crowley Rep. Artur Davis Rep. Rosa DeLauro Rep. Elliot Engel Rep. Barney Frank Rep. Al Green Rep. Gene Green Rep. Jane Harman Rep. Brian Higgins Rep. Rush Holt Rep. Sheila Jackson-Lee Rep. Tom Lantos Rep. Sander Levin Rep. Nita Lowey Rep. Carolyn Maloney Rep. Edward Markey Rep. Doris Matsui Rep. Michael McNulty Rep. Kendrick Meek Rep. George Miller Rep. Jerrold Nadler Rep. Frank Pallone Rep. Steve Rothman Rep. Bernie Sanders Rep. Janice Schakowsky Rep. Brad Sherman Rep. Ed Towns Rep. Peter Visclosky Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz Rep. Diane Watson Rep. Robert Wexler ###
02.17.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Friday, February 17, 2006 U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-Miramar) today applauded the City of Pahokee, Palm Beach County, and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for donating and funding the installation of 21 emergency trailers in Pahokee which have been desperately needed since Hurricane Wilma. "I am ecstatic that we have found a solution to this problem," said Representative Hastings. "21 Pahokee families will finally have a safe place to live by the end of this weekend because all levels of government figured out a way to work together. This is what happens when compassion and reason cut through bureaucratic red tape." For months, Representative Hastings has been working with Pahokee Mayor J.P. Sasser and federal officials to identify a positive housing solution in Pahokee in response to massive homelessness from Hurricane Wilma. Much of western Palm Beach County is located in a federally-classified historical flood zone, and FEMA regulations prohibit the Agency from placing mobile homes and travel trailers in such areas. Last month, the City identified a remaining need for 21 trailers. Following requests from Representative Hastings and Mayor Sasser, FEMA agreed to meet that need, donating 21 three-bedroom trailers to Pahokee. The agreement permits Pahokee to place the trailers within the City limits and subject only to Pahokee permitting rules. Palm Beach County agreed today to cover $105,000 in costs associated with installing the trailers, ensuring that Pahokee residents still suffering from Wilma will not have to pay for the $5,000 per trailer installation costs out of pocket. "While I am happy that we have reached an agreeable solution to this problem, I remain deeply disappointed that it took this long and my personal involvement to reach this solution," Representative Hastings noted. "Victims of natural disasters and the municipalities in which they live should never have to beg for help. FEMA's current limitations and flood zone lines in the Glades, however, leave residents with no other solution but to beg for the waiving of regulations just so they can get a roof over their heads. We can and must do better." Two weeks ago, FEMA Director Paulison committed to Representative Hastings that FEMA and the Army Corps of Engineers will re-evaluate the Agency's flood zone borders in the Glades prior to this year's hurricane season. ###
01.31.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Tuesday, January 31, 2006 U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) today called on President George W. Bush to use tonight's State of the Union as an opportunity to "stop hiding behind 9-1-1 and give the American people the 4-1-1!" "The President is going to try and convince the American people tonight that the state of our union is strong. Well, Mr. President, everything in America isn't hunky dory. And much like former FEMA Director Michael Brown, you are not doing a heck of a job," said Representative Hastings. "Everywhere you look, the President's priorities are in the wrong order. The ship of our state is sinking under the weight of red ink, and the President is like Nero fiddling while Rome burns. He views himself as above the law, and his policies reek of corruption, bought and paid for by the highest bidding special interest. Civil rights are disregarded, as the President's wiretaps are warrantless, and his justifications baseless. Tonight is an opportunity for the President to stop hiding behind 9-1-1 and give us the 4-1-1 on the real state of our Union, which is anything but strong. "Only once the President understands the true crises that American families are facing will he be able to make life better for ALL Americans. Until then, anything he says tonight is nothing but chest-thumping bunk." The prosperity and growth of the 1990s are but a distant memory since President Bush took office in 2001. Specifically: Job Loss: 2.8 million manufacturing jobs and one million private sector jobs have been lost since President Bush took office in January 2001. Even more, there are 1.6 million African Americans look for work, 17 percent more than when President Bush took office. Health Care: 44 million Americans remain without health insurance. In 2004, the number of African Americans without health insurance climbed to 7.4 million, and the number of African Americans without healthcare has grown by 760,000, or 11 percent, since 2001. Poverty: More people live in poverty today than when President Bush assumed office in 2001. Over the last five years, the number of African Americans living in poverty has grown by 1.4 million. There are now 9.4 million African Americans, or 25 percent of the total population in the U.S., living below the poverty line, and the median household income in our community is down by more than $2,200 per household since the beginning of the Bush Administration. Medicare: The implementation of the Medicare prescription drug plan has to nothing but confusion and panic. Senior citizens are now experiencing this mean-spirited, oblique, frustrating and infuriating program first-hand as the Bush Administration abandoned its commitment to pay for seniors' prescription drugs under the Medicare Part D program in January 2006, leaving seniors to fend for themselves. Failing to Respond to Natural Disasters: Less than one year after failing to adequately and appropriately respond to four hurricanes in Florida, the Bush Administration dismissed and ignored calls for FEMA reform. The Administration's lackadaisical and continued inadequate response to Hurricane Katrina has left more than 1,200 Americans dead, 2,700 still missing, and tens of thousands of families still homeless. President Bush has repeatedly rejected calls to pass the Hastings-Clinton Independent Katrina Commission Act. An Unjustified War in Iraq: Basing his justification for war on a pre-meditated fabrication of intelligence, President Bush misled the American people into an unjustified war in Iraq. His actions have resulted in the unnecessary deaths of more than 2,200 American soldiers Domestic Spying: In an unprecedented move, President Bush unilaterally authorized a secret domestic spying program, illegally ignoring the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act and the general public's civil rights. He has rejected Congressional inquiries and arrogantly called on Congress to remain silent on the issue - a call that has been rejected by Representative Hastings. National Security: Despite the bipartisan 9/11 Commission giving Republicans 17 D's and F's on the Commission's final report card, the President and Republicans have failed to implement recommendations that would secure our borders, protect our ports, and provide real time communications for our first responders. Encouraging a Culture of Corruption: Washington has become a town for the highest bidder under the Bush Administration where everything is for sale and anyone can be bought. Since President Bush and Republicans have taken control of Washington, oil companies and the pharmaceutical industry have received billions in tax breaks and are reporting record profits and Jack Abramoff and his cronies have exerted undue and unjustified influence. National Debt: Under the Bush Administration, the national debt has exceeded $8 trillion - the highest amount in the history of the United States. That's more than $27,000 for every man, woman, and child in this country! Oil and Energy Costs: Home heating costs under the Bush Administration will be 25 percent higher this winter than the last. Even more, an average price for a gallon of gas has increased 89 cents since President Bush's first year in office. Working families continue to fall behind on basic necessities because wages do not keep pace with increases in gasoline and energy prices, and many families are now forced to choose between what they need and what they will have to do without. ###
01.12.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEThursday, January 12, 2006 U.S. Representative Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) today issued the following statement regarding International Genocide Prevention Day, which is being observed today: "Nearly 60 years ago, the international community made a commitment to put an end to the crime of genocide by ratifying the United Nations Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide. "As the world observes International Genocide Prevention Day today, we must recommit ourselves to the moral responsibility encompassed in the Convention and renew our efforts to fulfill that responsibility. Despite the intentions embodied in the Genocide Convention, acts of genocide continue to be perpetrated. "In September 2004, the U.S. government declared that the mass killings occurring in Sudan are acts of genocide as set out in the Convention. Despite this admission, very little has been done by the Bush Administration to stop the killings and bring those responsible to justice. Our inaction has resulted in continued suffering for the people of Darfur. Because the United States and the international community have failed to act, more than 400,000 people have been killed by militias who continue to terrorize the Darfur region's population not only with impunity, but with government support. "As we commemorate the ratification of the Genocide Convention centered around the promise of never again that was provoked by the horrors of the Holocaust and observe International Genocide Prevention Day, we must help those desperately in need in Darfur today before it is too late again."
